DRN-1921335
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) wont refund what she paid, 
using, in part, her TPF credit card, to buy a new car which she says wasnt of satisfactory 
quality or fit for purpose, contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015. She brings this 
complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In October 2016, Mrs W bought a new car from a dealer Ill call D. She paid a deposit of 
£165 using her TPF credit card, and paid the balance of £9,000 by cash transfer from her 
bank account. The car was delivered to Mrs W on 11 November 2016.
In April 2017 a red warning light came on. A diagnostic test carried out by a local repairer (R) 
showed this to be related to a sensor. Mrs W spoke to D who said she should bring the car 
back to it to be repaired. However, Mrs W lived some distance, and a ferry journey away, 
from Ds premises. So she said that as the car was still under warranty, D should pay for it to 
be returned to its premises. D agreed instead to send the required replacement parts to R, 
and to pay Rs costs of carrying out the repairs.
In July 2017, the same warning light came on again. R again carried out a diagnostic test. 
This again showed a sensor to be at fault. D again sent the required replacement parts to R 
and paid for R to fit these. In October 2018, when the car was serviced by R, the same 
warning light was recorded as being present with a diagnostic test indicating a further issue 
with sensors.
In May 2019, the car broke down. When tested, 8 different fault codes were shown including 
some for sensors. D said the car would have to be returned to it to be examined, but 
wouldnt pay the cost of this, or the cost of a hire car while it was in its hands. D said wiring 
in the car had corroded and would have to be replaced. Mrs W says she was told by one of 
Ds representatives that this was a manufacturing problem, and that the replacement would 
be carried out under warranty.
Mrs W was unhappy with the continuing problems with the car. She thought this indicated it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose, contrary to the requirements of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA). She said she was rejecting the car and wouldnt take it back. D 
wouldnt accept her rejection. So Mrs W brought a claim against TPF under Section 75 for a 
refund of what she had paid, and her consequential costs.
TPF didnt accept her claim. It said:
Mrs W had allowed D several opportunities to effect repairs and so had relinquished 
both her short term and final right to reject the car under CRA;
there was no evidence that the various faults were related;
Mrs W drove the car without issue between the second sensor replacement and May 
2019;
D hadnt seen the car at the time of the earlier faults and couldnt comment on the 
accuracy of Rs diagnostics, as R wasnt a main dealer for this make of car;
the car had now been repaired by D under warranty; and
as TPF didnt accept Mrs W had a valid claim under Section 75, it wouldnt accept 
liability for her consequential losses.
Mrs W didnt accept what TPF said and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said he had spoken 
to R who considered that the issues Mrs W experienced with the car were all linked, and 
they appeared to be manufacturing defects. He thought the source of the problem could be 
the relays, or a fault with the wiring due to corrosion. The components that had failed hadnt 
had the durability they should have, so he didnt think the car, when supplied, had been of 
satisfactory quality.
The investigator noted that Mrs W hadnt been given any other explanation for the problems 
she experienced. He said the first problem occurred within six months from delivery. So 
under CRA the onus was on D to prove the car was of satisfactory quality and durable.
Given the car was brand new, and the faults occurred in the first six months, the investigator 
was persuaded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He thought the faults were related, and 
as the car had to go back for repairs over a period of time there was an underlying issue as 
R had suggested.
He thought that Mrs W should have been allowed to reject the car. So TPF should reimburse 
Mrs W:
80% of the cost of the car, that is £7,332. Mrs W should suffer a 20% deduction to 
take account of the use she had had of the car;
the ferry and other costs she had suffered in delivering the car back to D in 2019;
the costs she had paid out for hiring cars since the car was returned to D in 2019.
In addition, he said TPF should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple on the amounts 
mentioned above from the respective dates Mrs W returned the car to D, or incurred the 
costs, until settlement. The reimbursement of the costs was also subject to Mrs W providing 
invoices for the same. 
Mrs W accepted the investigators recommendation. TPF responded to say, in summary, 
that:
because of Rs involvement in the repair of the car, it didnt think its views could be 
considered impartial;
in April 2017, D had asked Mrs W to return the car to it for repair, and if this had 
happened it thought it likely the car could have been repaired without the need for 
further intervention;
D had allowed the car to be repaired by R as a matter of goodwill to Mrs W. In doing 
so D couldnt reasonably have foreseen the difficulties R would have in repairing the 
car; and
in the absence of a truly independent mechanical report on the car, TPF didnt 
consider Mrs Ws Section 75 claim should be upheld, or that she still had a right 
under CRA to reject the car at this stage.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons.
In his view, the investigator set out the opinions R had given both at the time of the various 
breakdowns, and directly to the investigator. R considered the issues were all linked and 
were caused by an underlying manufacturing defect.
TPF hasnt produced any engineering evidence, either from D or an independent source, to 
explain why the various repairs that had to be carried out to a new car were required. Also, 
although TPF has suggested that R was somehow responsible for the fact that the car 
wasnt fully repaired once and for all in April 2017, I dont find this plausible.
D had the opportunity to investigate the fault fully at that time, but was happy to rely on the 
diagnosis provided by R and for R to carry out repairs with the parts D provided. So Im not 
persuaded that R did anything wrong, and accept Rs evidence as to the likely cause of the 
breakdowns.
I find that given the history of linked breakdowns beginning within the first six months after 
delivery, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality for the purposes of CRA when it was delivered. 
In this context I note that one of the aspects of quality mentioned in section 9 of CRA is 
durability. I think the continued problems with the cars sensors indicates there was a 
problem with the durability of the cars components.
After each of the first two occasions when faults appeared, Mrs W gave D the opportunity to 
repair the fault, which it exercised by paying R to replace components it supplied. When 
faults occurred for a third time, Mrs W told D she didnt want the car repaired, but wanted to 
exercise her final right to reject the car under section 24 CRA. D nevertheless repaired the 
car and wouldnt accept her rejection.
I find that Mrs W did have the right to reject the car as she said, and D should have accepted 
this. Accordingly, its fair and reasonable that TPF should now compensate Mrs W under 
Section 75 as the investigator has suggested. I understand that the car has remained with D 
since it repaired it and refused to accept Mrs Ws rejection of it. So I agree that TPF should 
reimburse Mrs W by paying her:
1. 80% of the cost of the car, that is £7,332. This allows for a 20% deduction to take 
account of the use Mrs W has had of the car;
2. the ferry and other costs she suffered in delivering the car back to D in 2019; 
3. the costs she has paid out for hiring cars because the car was unavailable since it 
was returned to D in 2019; and
4. interest on the above amounts at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date the car 
was returned to D, or if later the cost was incurred, until settlement.
The reimbursement of the costs in 2. and 3. above is subject to Mrs W providing invoices for 
the same. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think TPF should pay Mrs W the amounts set out in my final decision 
below.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay 
Mrs W:
1. 80% of the cost of the car, that is £7,332;
2. the ferry and other costs she suffered in delivering the car back to D in 2019; 
3. the costs she has paid out for hiring cars because the car was unavailable since it 
was returned to D in 2019; and
4. interest on each of the above amounts at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date 
the car was returned to D in 2019, or if later the cost was incurred, until settlement.
If TPF considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
The reimbursement of the costs in 2. and 3. above is subject to Mrs W providing invoices to 
TPF for the same. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman