DRN-2970391
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about the service it received from 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) when applying for a Bounce Back Loan.
Ss director, Miss S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
S wanted to apply to NatWest for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
NatWest required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. While Miss S was an existing personal customer of NatWest, S didnt 
hold any accounts with the bank. So Miss S applied for a loan servicing account for S.
The account application took several months. Miss S submitted the application shortly after 
the Loan Scheme was launched in May 2020, but the account wasnt opened until mid-
December. When Miss S complained about the delay, NatWest accepted things hadnt gone 
as they should have done and apologised. It offered S compensation of £300 for the 
inconvenience caused and £40 to cover the cost of obtaining some information, which 
Miss S accepted.
With the account open, Miss S submitted a Bounce Back Loan application on Ss behalf on 
19 December 2020. She requested a loan of £50,000, declaring Ss turnover to be £200,000.
The initial application was declined as NatWest found that a loan application was underway 
with another provider (and as only one loan per customer was permitted under the Scheme). 
But this was resolved and Miss S reapplied on 24 December 2020. 
NatWest declined the application, and a number of further applications submitted thereafter. 
Initially the bank said its decision could be reviewed if Miss S could provide some additional 
information about Ss trading activity. But it then said the application had been declined 
based on its usual checks and assessments, and could not be overturned. Miss S 
complained, but NatWest maintained its decision. 
Miss S referred the matter to us. She said it had taken NatWest too long to assess Ss 
applications and had given her different timescales and conflicting information along the 
way. She said that this had led to S missing out on a Bounce Back Loan altogether, as by 
the time she had the correct answer from the bank shed run out of time to apply elsewhere.
One of our investigators reviewed Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought that NatWest had assessed Ss applications in line with the Scheme 
rules. She found that the bank had been unable to verify Ss declared turnover and thought 
its decision to decline the application on that basis was reasonable. And while she accepted 
that there were a couple of occasions on which NatWest couldve been clearer with Miss S, 
she thought it had clarified things quickly enough so as not to prejudice Ss position.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators view. She maintained that NatWest had caused 
unnecessary delays and inconvenience by giving her incorrect information about the reasons 
for its decision. So she asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that S experienced some avoidable problems when trying to open the loan 
servicing account it required in order to apply to NatWest for a Bounce Back Loan. But 
Miss S accepted NatWests offer of compensation for those issues and I dont think theres 
anything more the bank needs to do to put things right in that respect.
The outstanding issue is how NatWest handled the companys applications for a Bounce 
Back Loan. Dealing firstly with the decision itself, I understand that Miss S is concerned that 
the bank has given two reasons as to why the application failed  which both differ from that 
outlined by our investigator.
Having reviewed NatWests records of the application, I can see that the bank declined the 
application on the basis that it couldnt verify the turnover figure that S declared. This is 
important as under the rules of the Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a maximum of 
25% of their annual turnover for 2019. Miss S self-declared that Ss turnover was £200,000 
(an estimate, as S was established after 1 January 2019). But the information available to 
the bank showed a significantly lower figure. So the bank declined the application as a result 
of these checks, which I think was reasonable. 
NatWest wasnt obliged to disclose this level of detail when informing S of its decision. It was 
reasonable for the bank to advise, as it did, that the application had been declined as a 
result of its checks and assessments. 
I appreciate Miss S is unhappy that NatWest had previously told her that the application had 
been declined for other reasons. But at the outset, it had correctly advised her that the 
application couldnt proceed due to an outstanding application with another lender. That 
issue was resolved swiftly and I think it was clear that the application had then been 
considered afresh.
NatWest did, though, make an error when telling Miss S that it required some further 
information in order to progress the application. On 26 and 27 January the bank told Miss S 
that the application could be progressed if she provided documents showing that S had been 
trading before 1 March 2020. This was unnecessary as, in fact, the bank had declined the 
application for the reason above. But this was clarified swiftly and NatWest confirmed its 
decision a couple of days later. This was then reiterated within the banks response to 
Miss Ss complaint on 3 February. 
So I think NatWests decision to decline Ss application was reasonable and that it was 
communicated within a reasonable timeframe. While I can see how some confusion may 
have arisen, I think the bank clarified the position quickly and I cant see that this impacted S 
in any meaningful way. I dont think there were any excessive or unreasonable delays in 
progressing the application. Miss S wouldve known of NatWests decision by 3 February at 
the latest, so I dont think that the banks actions led to S being unable to apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan elsewhere  given that applications were being accepted up until 31 March. It seems Miss S chose to reapply to NatWest again in March  rather than approach an 
alternative lender and despite knowing that the bank was unwilling to provide the loan that S 
was seeking. With no new information to support the application, NatWest reached the same 
decision. And for the reasons already given, I think that was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman