DRN-2849834
The complaint and background
Mr C complains about the difference in the premium increases for his two cars. He feels that 
UK Insurance Limited hasnt provided a satisfactory explanation for this.
In 2019, Mr C noted that the renewal premium for one car (car A) had increased by 2%, 
whereas the premium for his other car (car B) had increased by 22%. He questioned this 
with UK I. He highlighted the difference between the two increases, the fact hed accrued a 
further years No Claims Discount on car B over the previous year, and the fact that the risk, 
in terms of both himself and car B, was otherwise exactly the same, if not lower. 
In summary, UK I wasnt prepared to share details of its pricing model with Mr C, because 
its commercially sensitive, but did pay Mr C some compensation for its complaint handling. 
Our investigator felt UK I had acted fairly, having seen evidence about the premium increase 
that was submitted in confidence, and noted Mr C hadnt suffered a financial loss, because 
he didnt accept the renewal quote. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr C reiterated that he didnt bring the complaint to 
seek compensation. He knew he could go to another insurer and did. He was motivated to 
complain by his perception that UK I should be more transparent about its pricing model. 
He wanted to make his own decision about whether the premium for car B had been 
calculated fairly, and needed a satisfactory explanation of the increase to do that.   
Mr C also raised concerns around the way his complaint was handled, and asked us to 
contact UK I to highlight issues in its complaint handling procedures. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand, given the factors hes highlighted, why Mr C had questions about whether he 
was being treated fairly when his policies renewed. I appreciate he doesnt yet feel hes had 
a satisfactory response to those questions, from either UK I or our service. 
In most cases, wed expect an insurer to share information with its consumer if it impacted 
the outcome of their complaint. But we think there are legitimate commercial reasons for an 
insurer not to share information about their pricing models and systems. While I recognise 
this is likely to disappoint Mr C, I wont be asking UK I to share further information with him. 
And I dont think its treated him unfairly by not doing so before now. 
Insurers are expected to justify premium increases to a service like ours (the rules we work 
under allow us to accept information in confidence where we consider that appropriate or 
necessary). And consumers can shop around if they feel their policies arent good value for 
money, which is ultimately what Mr C chose to do.  
UK I has provided us with context for the disparity in the two increases which satisfies me 
the increase for car B was based on a genuine consideration of risk and would have applied 
to anyone else in the same circumstances. In general terms, it uses claims data to predict its 
future claims costs. Upon review of that data in 2019, it found that the premium it had been 
charging for car B was low relative to its estimated claims costs. However, the estimated 
claims costs for car A were such that the premium didnt increase to the same extent.   
Mr C would like us to highlight issues with UK Is complaint handling processes. Complaint 
handling isnt in itself an activity our service can consider and we dont have a regulatory 
remit either, so this isnt something Im able to address.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman