DRN-4303391
The complaint
Mr G says Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr G took out a loan for £3,000 over 36 months from Updraft in December 2021. The 
monthly repayments were £124.91 and the total repayable was £4,571.95. He says he 
should not have been approved given his financial situation. He was already struggling to 
repay all his debts and this extra loan made things worse.
Mr G took out a second loan in March 2022. Updraft upheld Mr Gs complaint about this 
loan, but said its checks were proportionate for the first loan and it was not wrong to provide 
the loan. Unhappy with this assessment Mr G brought his complaint about the December 
2021 loan to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. She said there were signs Mr G might not be able
to repay the loan sustainably.
Updraft disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Gs complaint.
These two questions are:
1. Did Updraft complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences? - If
so, did it make fair lending decisions? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G
wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Updraft act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Updraft to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so Updraft had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr G. In practice this
meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mr G undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Updraft to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications. In general,
what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. Updraft has provided evidence to
show that it asked for some information from Mr G before giving the loan. It asked for his 
monthly income, his employment status and his housing costs. It completed an income 
verification check with a third-party and used national statistics to make an assumption about 
his living costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing 
credit commitments. Based on the results of these checks Updraft thought it was fair to lend 
to Mr G as he had monthly disposable income of £287.90.
There has been debate between the investigator and Updraft about whether or not its
checks were proportionate, but I need not make a finding on this point as even based on the
information it did gather I dont think Updraft made a fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
When Mr G applied for this loan Updrafts assessment showed he was already spending
around £868.96 of his income each month to repay existing debt  so around 45% of his
income. I think this ought to have concerned Updraft. As the industry is aware, consumers
spending a high proportion of their income on credit are at risk of falling into financial
difficulties. So I dont think it was responsible to increase this further. 
I anticipate Updraft would argue that its loan was for debt consolidation but I cannot see it 
took any steps to fully understand which debts Mr G intended to settle, other than that they 
were from amongst his credit card debts. And the loan would only have allowed him to settle 
a small percentage of his debt. Mr G had 18 store and credit cards, as well as a number of 
high-cost loans that he had taken out recently. And Mr G would still have had access to the 
same credit limits even if he had cleared some of his debt. So I dont think Updraft had the 
assurances it needed that giving this loan would not cause Mr G financial harm.  And it 
needed to check this, not just the pounds and pence affordability of the loan. I think the 
credit check showed that whilst Mr G was managing to make his repayments on his active 
accounts it was most likely he was reliant on credit to do so and juggling credit to make his 
repayments. 
So, overall, I find there were sufficient indicators in the available information for Updraft to 
realise that giving Mr G this loan would likely cause financial harm.It follows I think Updraft was wrong to lend to Mr G. I have not seen any evidence it acted
unfairly towards Mr G in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to him. Updraft must put this right.
It should:
Refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on his loan and remove all future interest 
and charges.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account in this way results in him having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Updraft should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance 
Updraft must try to agree an affordable payment plan with Mr G.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan 
once any outstanding capital balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Updraft to deduct tax from this interest. Updraft should give Mr G
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, must put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman