DRN-2707931
The complaint
Mr G has complained to Insurance Factory Ltd (trading as Petwise) about the increase in 
premium for his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G has had a maximum benefit pet insurance policy through Insurance Factory for a 
number of years. Hes unhappy with the increases in the policy premium and, in particular 
that at renewal in 2019 the annual premium doubled from around £357 to nearly £700. He 
didnt think this was fair. 
Insurance Factory explained why the premiums had increased. However, it accepted there 
had been a lack of information provided to Mr G about the potential for this to happen when 
the policy was sold. It offered to pay £170 in recognition of the impact on him of that. 
Our investigator said Insurance Factory werent the insurers of Mr Gs policy. So they 
werent responsible for setting the price of it. However, Insurance Factory were responsible 
for providing Mr G with information about the policy when he took it out. And it had accepted 
the information he was given wasnt clear enough. She noted the increase in premium in 
2019 was significant and Mr G would likely now find it difficult to obtain alternative cover due 
to the age of his dog and the fact it had ongoing medical conditions. Taking that into account 
she thought £350 would better recognise the distress Mr G was caused.  
Insurance Factory felt the compensation it had previously offered was appropriate. Mr G said 
he remained concerned at the fairness of the premium increases themselves and drew 
attention to the most recent renewal hed received. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Gs wider concerns about the increases in his premium and whats hes been 
charged at his most recent renewal.  But, as our investigator said, his premiums arent set by 
Insurance Factory but by the insurer of his policy (which is a different business). So any 
concerns Mr G has about his would need to be pursued with that business.
Insurance Factory was responsible for provided information about the policy to Mr G. And 
the relevant rules (the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  ICOBS) say it needed 
to take reasonable steps to provide a customer with appropriate information about a policy 
in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed 
decision about the arrangements proposed. That information should be clear, fair and not 
misleading. And it would include drawing the customers attention to, and highlighting the 
main provisions of, the policy and the significant limitations and exclusions.
Policies like the one Mr G took out are usually more expensive than standard policies as 
they provide a greater level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding 
the long-term cost and cover for customers with these policies. The cost doesnt stay the 
same for the life of the policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet 
gets older and the cost of veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to 
claims, changes in insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no 
limit to how high the cost could be. 
Insurance Factory has accepted that it didnt provide Mr G with clear information about this 
when he took out the policy. So Ive gone on to think about how thats affected Mr G and 
whether hed have acted differently if hed been given clearer information. 
He was taking out pet insurance so I think he clearly wanted some type of cover for his pet. 
And as he decided to take out a maximum benefit policy like this I think he was interested in 
the greater level of cover it provided. 
I accept that knowing more about how the cost of this policy might change in future could 
have caused him to look for cover with an alternative provider. But as providers of this type 
of insurance tend to operate in a similar way I think its unlikely Mr G would have been able 
to find alternative cover which would have cost him significantly less. I think its most likely 
hed still have taken out this policy. 
But I do agree the premium increase would have come as a shock to Mr G when he received 
his renewal documentation, given it hadnt been made clear this might happen. The increase 
was significant (with the policy doubling in cost in one year). Ive also taken into account that 
there have also been reasonably significant year on year increases during the time hes had 
this policy. I think that would also have been distressing to Mr G 
I appreciate Mr G made a claim on this policy and might reasonably have anticipated the 
cost would also increase as his dog got older. Nevertheless, I think the nature and extent of 
the increases will have been distressing for him. And hes now in a position where he has an 
older dog with an existing health condition which will likely make it more difficult for him to 
find cover elsewhere. He may have difficult choices to make as to whether hes able to 
continue with this policy or not. I think the increase in compensation to £350 that our 
investigator recommended is the right amount to recognise the impact of whats happened 
on him.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Insurance Factory Ltd will need to put things right by 
paying Mr G £350. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman