DRN-3871295
The complaint
Mrs H complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible when it offered her credit card facilities
and subsequent credit limit increases.
What happened
NewDay opened three credit card accounts for Mrs H under different trading names. Ive set
out some of the information NewDay provided about these accounts in the below table for
clarity. These accounts were all open-ended or running account facilities. NewDay increased
Mrs Hs credit limit on two of these accounts over the years.
Account name Date opened Credit limit
December 2017 £300
May 2018 £1,200Account 1
September 2018 £1,950
July 2020 £700
November 2020 £1,700Account 2
March 2021 £2,700
Account 3 May 2021 £900
Mrs H said that she wasnt complaining about the opening of her first account in December
2017 but about its subsequent credit limit increases. I understand Mrs H is also complaining
about being granted her second credit card in July 2020 and its subsequent credit limit
increases, and being granted her third credit card in May 2021.
Mrs H said that NewDay increased her credit limit to unsustainable levels on her first credit
card and that her finances grew progressively worse from that point. She says that although
she didnt default on her accounts, she was put under significant pressure just to maintain
the payments. Mrs H says she had no ability to repay the whole amount borrowed and 
NewDay should not have agreed the credit increases on this card nor should it have agreed
further credit card facilities for her.
NewDay didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said that before lending, it took into account how
she was managing her accounts, information from her credit file and what shed told it in
her applications. It was satisfied that the credit increases were granted correctly and that
adequate checks were completed to ensure the credit was affordable. NewDay also said that
it was Mrs Hs responsibility whether or not to accept or decline the credit limit increases. It
says it informed Mrs H of her limit increases each time and she didnt opt out of these.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that
NewDay should have gone further in its affordability checks when it increased Mrs Hs credit
limit on two occasions in 2018 and when she applied for her second and third accounts. 
They went on to find that further checks would likely have shown that the second credit limit
increase on Mrs Hs first account (in September 2018) and all subsequent credit wasnt likely
to be sustainably repayable for her. They recommended that NewDay reworks Mrs Hs first
account so that no interest is charged on balances above £1,200 and that it refunds any
interest and charges she paid on her other two.
NewDay disagreed with our investigators recommendations. It said that:
After the first account was opened in December 2017, Mrs H remained within the 
credit limits with isolated exceptions in January and April 2018.
Mrs H did not use the cash transaction facility of her first account either to withdraw 
cash, or to have funds paid into her current account. Cash use is an expensive way 
to borrow and can indicate that a customer is struggling. However, there was no 
evidence of this from Mrs H.
Prior to the limit increase in September 2018, Mrs H did not make any late payments. 
This leads NewDay to find that she was managing her finances well.
NewDay reviewed credit reference agency (CRA) data before the offer to increase 
Mrs Hs credit limit from 1,200 to £1,950 was made in September 2018. This data is 
considered sufficient by the regulator to use as an estimate of customers non- 
discretionary expenses. Therefore the decision to offer to increase the limit was done 
after industry recognised checks were completed.
The complaint came to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional 
decision on the 2 December explaining why I thought Mrs Hs complaint should succeed and 
sharing the information Id relied on. I allowed time for either party to comment on what Id 
said or provide any new information they wished me to consider. Neither party has 
responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and having no new information to take into account, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that Mrs Hs complaint 
should be upheld. Ill set out again my reasons why in this final decision on the matter. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance 
on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, 
such as NewDay, need to abide by. NewDay will be aware of these, and our approach to this 
type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but 
will summarise them and refer to them where appropriate.
Before entering into a credit agreement with Mrs H or increasing her credit limit under an
existing agreement, NewDay needed to check that she could afford to meet her repayments
out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further
and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks
needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (for example, the amount offered) and
Mrs Hs particular circumstances.
In addition, NewDay needed to monitor Mrs Hs repayment record and take appropriate
action where there were signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. The
overarching requirement was, and is, that NewDay needed to pay due regard to Mrs Hs
interests and treat her fairly.
Account 1When Mrs H applied for her first credit card in December 2017 she gave her salary as
£16,000, which I estimate equates to about £1,170 a month net. The application information
also records that Mrs Hs total unsecured debt balances came to £100. NewDay checked
Mrs Hs credit file and said that it didnt see any defaults, arrears or short term borrowing
shown.
NewDay said that each time it increased the credit limits on this account it had regard to how
Mrs H was managing her credit and information from her credit file which showed how she
was managing any other credit she had. NewDay says that it didnt see anything in Mrs Hs
management of her account that suggested she was having problems managing her
money, for example Mrs H didnt exceed her credit limit except on two occasions, and she 
didnt use her account for cash or make any late payments.
I can see from the account information NewDay provided that Mrs H had gone over her limit
twice in the first six months and been charged over-limit fees. She was making more than
the minimum payment but she was also using her available credit each month and the CRA
data shows that she had other debts of more than £3,300, not £100.
Given this context, Mrs Hs stated means and that this credit increase was significant being
from £300 to £1,200 I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have looked into
Mrs Hs circumstances in more depth before granting this increase. I note NewDay says it
used a CRA tool to check Mrs Hs bank transactions, but it hasnt provided me with this data
(beyond affordability scores) and I cant see that it verified Mrs Hs actual income or
investigated her expenses.
In the six months before the second credit increase (September 2018), Mrs H had made a
large payment to the account, however she was also spending up to her credit limit and it
seems her external debts had increased to over £7,400. As before, I think it would have
been proportionate for NewDay to have looked into Mrs Hs circumstances in more depth
before agreeing more credit for her and taken steps to verify her means.
Mrs H has provided us with her bank statements for the months before her first account was
taken out and a recent copy of her credit file. Im not suggesting this is the information
NewDay should have relied on but rather that this is a reasonable proxy for what it might
have found out about Mrs Hs circumstances through further checks.
Mrs Hs credit file shows that she had three defaults, the last of which was in early 2017,
almost a year before the credit card was opened, and she had five existing revolving credit
accounts. I dont think this information of itself would have caused concern for NewDay.
The bank statements are for a joint account Mrs H held with her husband. This appears to
be the main household account as there are two lots of income deposits and child benefit
payments. The household rent, bills, living costs and debts are all paid from here. Its clear 
from the statements that Mrs Hs combined outgoings with her husbands came to more than
their shared income and that they were struggling with their finances. There are payments to
two debt collectors along with payments to a national debt charity. The statements also show
returned direct debits for council tax, home insurance, credit cards and mobile phone
accounts, for example, and unpaid transaction fees.
I havent seen anything which makes me think Mrs Hs finances improved throughout 2018.
The information NewDay had showed her external debts had more than doubled between
opening the account and the second credit limit increase. I think its more likely than not that
Mrs Hs financial difficulties continued.Having considered everything carefully, I think NewDay would likely have seen that Mrs H 
wasnt in a position to be able to sustainably manage the two credit limit increases it
agreed for her in 2018, had it carried out proportionate checks on these occasions. Ive
concluded that NewDay was irresponsible to have agreed to these increases.
Accounts 2 and 3
NewDay said that when Mrs H applied for her second account in July 2020, she told it her
salary was £21,000 and she had debts of £8,100. When Mrs H applied for her third account
in May 2021, she told NewDay her salary was £21,500 and she had debts of £10,600.
NewDay checked Mrs Hs credit file on each application and said that it didnt show any
defaults, arrears or short term borrowing. It said that, as with Mrs Hs first account, each time
it increased the credit limits on her second account it had regard to how Mrs H was
managing both accounts, along with information from her credit file. NewDay didnt find
anything in this information to suggest Mrs H was having problems managing her money.
Ive reviewed the information that NewDay had when it opened these two accounts for
Mrs H. The information for Account 1 shows that Mrs H was over the credit limit in July 2020,
the month she took out Account 2, and in seven out of the 12 months prior to this. Mrs H was
making more than the minimum payment but was spending this much again each month.
Mrs H was also over the limit on Account 1 for four out of the 12 months prior to opening
Account 3 in May 2021. By this point shed also used her Account 2 card up to the limit  the
May balance was £2,683 up from £1,632 just two months before.
As mentioned, Mrs H external debts were increasing. The information NewDay gathered
from Mrs Hs credit file shows she had external debts of £12,500 around the time of opening
Account 2. By the time Mrs H opened Account 3 NewDay recorded her external debts as
over £13,500.
I think NewDay should have seen from the information it had that it was highly likely Mrs H
was reliant on credit. I dont think it treated Mrs H fairly and with due regard to her interests
when it opened a second and third account for her without looking into her circumstances in
more detail.
Mrs H hasnt provided any bank statements for the time these accounts were taken out  the
bank statements Ive seen are from late 2017 and I cant reasonably rely on these to give me
an understanding of Mrs Hs finances in mid-2020 or mid-2021 as her situation might well
have changed by then.
However, given the account information Ive set out above, I think its more likely than not 
that any further information about Mrs Hs finances would have confirmed that she was still 
in a position where she was spending more than she earned and wasnt likely to be able to 
repay more credit without difficulty and within a reasonable period of time. By October 2021, 
Mrs H was over the limit on all three of her NewDay credit facilities. Ive concluded that 
NewDay was irresponsible when it provided Mrs H with Accounts 2 and 3.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that NewDay was irresponsible when increased Mrs Hs limit on her first 
account twice in 2018. I think its fair that Mrs H repays the credit she borrowed as shes had 
the use of this. However, in order to put Mrs H back into the position she would have been in 
had this not happened means she shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on credit 
granted over her initial limit of £300. Ive also concluded that NewDay shouldnt have provided Accounts 2 or 3 for Mrs H and so 
in the same way she shouldnt be liable for any interest or charges on the credit provided 
through these.
In order to put things right for Mrs H, NewDay should:
Rework Mrs Hs first account to remove all interest and charges that have been 
applied to balances above £300; and  
oIf the effect of these reworkings results in a credit balance on the account, 
then this should be refunded to Mrs H along with 8% simple interest* on the 
overpayments from the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this 
case, NewDay should remove any adverse information reported to Mrs Hs 
credit file about this account after the first increase was applied; or 
oIf an outstanding balance remains on this account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay needs to ensure that Mrs H is only liable for this 
adjusted balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with her. Once 
Mrs H has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
about this account after the first increase was granted should be removed 
from her credit file.
Rework Mrs Hs second and third accounts to remove all interest and charges that 
have been applied since each was opened; and 
oIf the effect of these reworkings results in a credit balance on an account, 
then this should be refunded to Mrs H along with 8% simple interest* on the 
overpayments from the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this 
case, NewDay should remove any adverse information reported to Mrs Hs 
credit file about the account; or 
oIf an outstanding balance remains on an account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay needs to ensure that Mrs H is only liable for this 
adjusted balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with her. Once 
Mrs H has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
about the account should be removed from her credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am upholding Mrs Hs complaint about NewDay Ltd 
regarding her three accounts and it now needs to put things right for her as Ive outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman