DRN-1291813
Complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs B bought the PPI in 1998 whilst applying for a new credit card. Our adjudicator who 
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs B has already received some money back - specifically for the commission Barclays 
received from selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was also mis-sold the PPI in 
the first place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mrs B says the PPI was added without her knowing or being told much about it. But Im 
afraid I was sent a copy of her credit card application and I can see the form gave an 
obvious choice to either have or not have PPI. Mrs B selected the box to add the PPI and 
she signed the form. So I think she agreed to the policy and has since forgotten she did this.
Barclays says it was a branch application where the PPI would have probably been 
recommended to her. This means it had an additional duty to ensure this type of cover was 
suitable for her. Overall, I think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Bs situation. I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking at the 
work she did, I agree she would have had some sickness protection with it, but this doesn't 
necessarily mean the policy was of no use. The PPI policy would have paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This would have 
been in addition to any other means she had at that time. I also see that the cost was 69p 
per £100 outstanding on the card, which I think would have been affordable for Mrs B.
So I think this policy was suitable for her.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mrs B 
could make an informed choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. The 
documentation Mrs B used appears to have included some information about the PPI policy 
included with it. And overall I think she probably had enough information to decide what she 
wanted to do. I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more clearly, but 
overall this doesnt change what I think.Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I think the evidence shows she chose the policy and would 
have known it wasnt something she needed to have. This means Im not upholding her mis-
sale complaint.
Barclays has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium). It should have told Mrs B about that. Because it didnt, that was 
unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays has already paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc has already paid her for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman