DRN-3021080
The complaint
Mr B complains that due to errors by Brachers LLP incorrect information was recorded on his 
credit file.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I think Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld and how to fairly resolve it. I said: 
Mr B had two accounts with a credit provider (A). One was a charge card, that required the 
full outstanding balance to be repaid each month, the other is a credit card.
Towards the end 2018 Mr B experienced some difficulties maintaining payments and missed
the December 2018 deadline. The accounts were referred by A to Brachers to manage.
Payment plans for both accounts were agreed. Mr B has maintained the payment
arrangements but complained to Brachers that A had recorded arrears and defaults on his
credit file.
Brachers responded in September 2020. Brachers said problems collecting direct debits had
impacted Mr Bs credit file but confirmed he had made manual payments to ensure they
were made up. Brachers also said because of issues at A, a default was recorded on Mr Bs
credit file. Brachers apologised, confirmed it would correct Mr Bs credit file and paid him
£100.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld
the complaint and asked Brachers to contact A and request it updates Mr Bs credit file to
show the original missed payment followed by agreements to pay for both accounts. The
investigator also thought Brachers should increase the award for the trouble and upset
caused from £100 to £350.
Mr B asked to appeal and said he didnt feel the compensation awarded was reasonable
when taking the impact of Brachers errors on him into account. As Mr B didnt accept the
investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that issues with the way payments were taken by Brachers and recorded on Mr Bs
credit file led to the wrong information being reported. Mr B did miss payment deadlines in
December 2018 so I agree with the investigator that the information reported should reflect
that. But, problems with Brachers payment systems meant the direct debit instruction was
cancelled and Mr B made manual payments instead.
From January 2019, Mr B maintained payments due under a payment plan on each account.
So I agree with Mr B that the information recorded on his credit file ought to reflect the
consistent payments he made and the payment arrangement he agreed with Brachers.
I need to explain that credit reference agencies take differing approaches to how they record
a payment arrangement. But I agree that the way Brachers managed and reported Mr Bs
payments to A since 2019 has had an unreasonable impact on his credit file. Whilst I agree
Brachers should contact A to ensure the information recorded is correct, a missed payment
and arrangement to pay will still show for each of his accounts.
Mr B has told us that due to the nature of his job he cant have defaults. So when A
incorrectly recorded default information on his credit file Mr B had to speak with his manager
to explain the situation. Im pleased the default information was ultimately removed, but I can
appreciate Mr A found the nature of that discussion highly embarrassing and understand
why hes upset. Ive taken Mr Bs comments concerning how the errors impacted him into
account when reaching my decision about how to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator recommended Brachers contact A and ask it to update the credit reference
agencies to show the charge card had a missed payment in December 2018 and remained
one payment in arrears and subject to a payment arrangement until it was settled in April
2021. But Brachers has recently provided information about the payments Mr B has made
and they show the charge card still has an outstanding balance that he continues to make
payments towards each month.
At the time of writing, the outstanding balance is around £340. Mr B has provided a copy of
his credit report and it shows the payment arrangement on his charge card stopped being
reported in November 2020, at which point its reported as being one payment in arrears. But
Brachers has confirmed the payment arrangement remains in place, so it will need to contact
A and request Mr Bs credit file is amended to reflect the payment arrangement remains
ongoing, until the full balance is repaid.
The investigator also said Brachers should contact A and ask it to update the credit
reference agencies to show Mr Bs credit card had a missed payment in December 2018 and
was then subject to a payment arrangement. But Ive looked at the way Mr Bs credit card is
recorded on his credit file. I can see the original missed payment from December 2018 is
disclosed. From that point, a payment arrangement was reported until November 2020 when
the account is shown as being up to date. The information Ive seen doesnt show an error in
the way Mr Bs credit card has been reported.
The investigator also asked Brachers to pay Mr B a total of £350 for the distress and
inconvenience caused by its actions. I understand Mr B feels the amount recommended is
too low. But, having taken everything hes told us into account, Im satisfied £350 does fairly
reflect the impact of the issues raised on Mr B. I understand Mr B works in finance so having
his accounts incorrectly defaulted due to problems colleting his payments was particularly
distressing. I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint and tell Brachers to increase the
compensation from £100 to £350. 
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr B responded to say the initial issue 
occurred after A had cancelled his cards and requested repayment of both in November 
2018. Mr B explained the missed payment shown on his credit file was caused by the wait 
required to instruct Brachers to agree a payment arrangement. 
Mr B also told us the payment history recorded on his credit file is affecting his credit score. 
Mr B has asked that his credit file be amended reflect the payment arrangement, not missed 
payments. Mr B says the £350 compensation figure isnt fair given the problems he faced with his employer. 
Brachers responded to say that one of Mr Bs accounts with A was a charge card. Brachers 
says the original terms of the charge card say the balance has to be cleared in full each 
month. As a result, when Mr B entered into a payment arrangement because he wasnt able 
to clear the full balance his account was in arrears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their responses. I understand Mr B feels the issues hes 
raised all came about because A withdrew his credit facilities and requested repayment of 
both outstanding balances at the same time. But this complaint is about the way Brachers 
administered the accounts and the information that was subsequently recorded on his credit 
file. Ive looked back Brachers contact notes and whilst I note Mr B did complain, it hasnt 
commented on the original decision by A to request full repayment from Mr B. 
If Mr B remains unhappy with As request that he repay both outstanding balances, he has 
the option of raising that directly with the business. 
Ive focused on the problems Brachers experienced in connection with the payments Mr B 
made and how that impacted his credit file. I remain of the view that the defaults that were 
applied caused a clear level of distress for Mr B and I agree the information reported should 
be updated. As I said in my provisional decision, I intend to tell Brachers to request A 
updates the information recorded in connection to the charge card to show one missed 
payment in December 2018 and a payment arrangement without any further arrears from 
January 2019 until the debt was repaid. I still think thats the fairest approach in this case. 
I understand the situation caused embarrassment for Mr B with his employer. Mr B has 
explained he was concerned he couldve potentially lost his job as a result. Ive taken 
everything Mr B has told us into account but I still think £350 is a fair reflection of impact 
caused by the way Brachers collected payments. I havent been persuaded to increase the 
award further. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I still think the proposed settlement I gave in my provisional 
decision remains a fair way to resolve his complaint. As a result, Im going to uphold his 
complaint in line with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Brachers LLP to settle as follows: 
- Request A update Mr Bs credit file in relation to the charge card to show one missed 
payment in December 2018. From January 2019 Brachers should request that A 
reports the account as being subject to an ongoing payment arrangement that Mr B 
maintained without further arrears
- Increase the total award for the distress and inconvenience caused from £100 to 
£350 (less any compensation already paid)  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman