The complaint
Mrs S says  AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover her store card repayments.
What happened
Mrs S took out a store card in 1997. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Mrs Ss store card. A 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the store 
card if Mrs S was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Mrs S returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs S.
Mrs S disagrees. She says PPI wasnt mentioned when opening the account. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied for in store when Mrs S applied for a store card. Theres limited 
information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. Because of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have been said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been given.
Mrs S says PPI wasnt mentioned. But Ive looked at the credit agreement that she signed 
and even though PPI might not have been mentioned, I think it was clear the PPI was 
optional and that Mrs S chose to take it from the credit agreement.
I say this because I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
Yes to select PPI. Mrs S has also signed the agreement for the store card itself. If Mrs S 
hadnt wanted PPI, I think she couldve chosen not to tick the relevant section of the 
agreement.
DRN-1102298I dont think AXA advised Mrs S to take PPI. What this means is that AXA didnt recommend 
PPI to Mrs S, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about 
buying PPI.
AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs S 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Mrs S needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs S say cant remember if she was entitled to any sick pay.
A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits so
I think the policy still wouldve provided a useful benefit for Mrs S in her situation and
I cant see how knowing this information wouldve changed her mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs S and she could
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs S on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint against  AXA France 
IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman