DRN-3043657
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused her claim for a cancelled trip
under her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs C took out an annual multi trip travel policy in December 2019 which was insured by
Great Lakes. She declared a number of medical conditions which Great Lakes agreed to
cover.
Mrs C booked a trip to Europe, departing from the UK on 29 February 2020. On 27 February
2020, Mrs C was advised against travelling on this trip by her GP, due to the high risk of
coronavirus in the area and her underlying health conditions. As a result, Mrs C cancelled
the booking and made a claim under her travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes refused the claim. It said that the reason for her cancelling her trip didnt fall
within one of the reasons covered under the policy. It also said that the policy didnt cover
claims relating to Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice or the fear of becoming
infected with Covid-19. Great Lakes also said that, even though Mrs C had taken out
additional cover for claims relating to FCO advice, as there werent any restrictions on travel
at the time she cancelled, there was no cover.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs C complained to Great Lakes and brought her complaint to
this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and thought that the complaint should be
upheld. He said that the cause of claim was as a result of an illness and, as the policy
provides cover for cancellation due to illness, he thought the claim should be covered. He
also pointed out that the policy included terms which excluded her from cover if she was to
travel against the advice of a medical practitioner  so he thought that her cancellation was
reasonable and should be covered. He recommended Great Lakes pay the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators view. It said there was no medical evidence to
suggest the cancellation had been caused by the exacerbation of an illness and was just a
precautionary measure  and this wasnt covered by the policy. As no agreement could be
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
On 31 August I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy Mrs C held includes terms and conditions relating to the cancellation cover
provided. The relevant parts are as follows:
Section 1 Cancellation
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover
per insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are
contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions)
which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or
advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under
current United Kingdom legislation.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood,
or hurricane.
Mrs C cancelled her trip after being advised by her GP that she shouldnt travel to this area
as there was a high risk of coronavirus which she should avoid due to her pre-existing health
conditions. Having looked at the policy terms, I can see that cancellation due to a medical
practitioner advising against travel isnt listed as a covered reason to claim. So, I agree on
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mrs Cs claim simply isnt covered by the terms of the
contract.
However, having thought about this case very carefully, I dont think that applying the strict
interpretation of the policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome here. Ill explain
why.
As is commonplace with the majority, if not all, travel insurance policies available on the
market, the policy includes terms that apply generally to all sections of cover. In respect of
Mrs Cs case, the policy includes a Medical Declaration section, which states;
To be covered, you must be fit and able to undertake your planned trip, and: you are NOT
travelling against the advice of a doctor (or would be travelling against the advice of a doctor
had you sought his/her advice).
In addition, I can see that in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), under the
What is not insured? section, it states Travelling against medical advice.
Mrs C was advised not to travel on the planned trip by her doctor. So, if shed done so, it
seems she wouldnt have been covered due to these terms under the policy. This means
that effectively, Mrs C was not covered if she cancelled her trip, but alternatively, if she had
chosen to travel as planned and not lose out on the costs of the trip, she wouldnt have been
covered at all. In my view, this isnt fair or reasonable.
I appreciate that Mrs C didnt suffer from an exacerbation of her existing medical conditions.
But her doctor felt that her condition put her at significant risk of illness if she had travelled to
this area. And so, I think it would be fairer to consider her cancellation claim was caused by
the medical conditions which had been declared and accepted by Great Lakes, albeit
perhaps indirectly.
Mrs C responded to the decision saying she agreed with the findings. Great Lakes confirmed 
it had received the decision but had no further comments to make.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments or information for me to consider I 
see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision as detailed 
above.
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to do the following:
pay Mrs Cs claim for the cancelled holiday  taking into account any deduction for 
policy excesses if applicable;
pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as detailed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman