DRN-3798356
The complaint
Mr B complains that  Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) declined a chargeback request. He 
would like a refund of the £114 he says he was overcharged and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration. He is adamant he didnt agree to a payment of £167 
but to one of £53 as that is what he believes was the correct charge for the service 
he wanted. Mr B has referred to what he feels is a similar decision by another 
ombudsman in a different case. I should make it clear we carefully consider the 
circumstances of each complaint. If another case seems similar it doesnt 
automatically mean the same outcome will be reached. In this complaint I can only 
consider Mr Bs complaint against Barclays. 
Barclays  pursued a chargeback claim for Mr B and from what I have seen it followed 
the correct process. It asked both parties for information. Amongst other things Mr B 
provided an email from him  authorising a payment of £53 not £167 so I do 
understand his point that this is the amount he authorised. However, the service 
provider confirmed that Mr B had been charged the correct amount, and that in a 
phone call this amount was confirmed and Mr B agreed to pay this.  
I have seen an email trail between Mr B and the service provide in which  the fee is 
confirmed as £167. In this correspondence  Mr B himself confirms his understanding, 
from a conversation with the service provider, that the default process is to charge 
this fee and refund any overpayment if it transpires a lesser fee was due. This leads 
me to conclude that Mr B did accept the appropriate payment was £167.  I have no 
evidence to show the service provider ever agreed the wrong  fee was charged. 
Given the fee was for a public service had the wrong fee been charged I dont see 
why this wouldnt have been admitted and resolved.
I must consider if Barclays actions in accepting he merchants defence and declining 
the chargeback were reasonable. Mr B has sent in a lot of documentation showing 
what fees are applicable for the service he sought. But the service provider was 
adamant the correct fee had been charged, that Mr B was aware and agreed to pay 
this fee. This seems to be to be supported by the email evidence where Mr B refers 
to a default process as detailed above. In conclusion I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Barclays to accept the service providers evidence and so decline 
the chargeback. So, I dont think I can reasonably ask Barclays to refund part of the 
payment Mr B made or to compensate him for his time and trouble.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman