DRN-3255314
The complaint
Ms F opened a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) in December 2009. Ms 
F says that the account has not provided value for money and was not the right account for 
her at the time.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think BOS had mis-sold the URCA. 
Because Ms F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
Ms F also seems to be unhappy with the level of overdraft fees that she has paid. This 
decision will only be looking at the sale of the URCA itself. If Ms F remains unhappy with the 
overdraft fees added to her account, we would need to consider this separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Fs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Ms F was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. Firstly, I note that Ms F had held a fee-
free account with BOS prior to when she took out the account. So I think she would have 
known that in general fee-free accounts were available from BOS. 
Ms F says that it may have been the case that she was told that the free account she held at 
the time was being phased out. I have carefully considered this, but I cant see that free 
accounts were being phased out by BOS at the time, or why Ms F, who should reasonably 
have been aware that fee free banking was freely available in this country, would think that 
this was suddenly not an option for her. What I can see though is that at the time the account 
was taken out BOS was altering the charging structure of its overdrafts and I think this is 
possibly the main reason Ms F agreed to this account. 
To explain, prior to December 2009 BOS charged interest on overdrawn balances. After this 
point it instead introduced a daily fee that was tiered depending on the level an account 
holder was overdrawn. The URCA offered a £300 buffer limit, so account holders would not 
have to pay a daily overdraft fee if they were overdrawn up to £300. Whereas free accounts 
at the time incurred a daily overdraft usage fee of £1 a day. 
Looking at Ms Fs bank statements around the time the account was taken out I can see that 
her overdraft limit at the time the account was taken out was £280 which she frequently 
used. So I think that the intention at the time the account was taken out was to remain inside 
the overdraft buffer to avoid the daily fees that would have been applicable on her existing 
account. I can see that there were subsequent overdraft limit increases and with the benefit 
of hindsight it may have been the case that the overdraft buffer was not as useful to Ms F as 
it may have seemed when she took out the account. This in itself does not mean that the 
account was mis-sold or that she was not given a fair choice as to whether she agreed to the 
account. 
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. I 
can see that Ms F made three claims on the breakdown cover and contacted the home 
emergency provided. I can also see no reason as to why Ms F could not use the mobile 
phone insurance or travel insurance if she wished to do so.
Overall, while I do appreciate what Ms F has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its 
more likely she agreed to the account because she was attracted to the overall package of 
benefits.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore BOS did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Ms F. It did though have to give Ms F enough information to 
decide this for herself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Ms F to make 
the account seem attractive. I accept that Ms F may not have been given all the information 
about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific that Ms F was not 
told that I think wouldve changed her decision to take out the account. 
On balance, I think Ms F agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that she didnt have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because at the time she was interested in the benefits 
on the account, although I accept that Ms F may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Ms F. Its clear that Ms F feels strongly that the 
account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have provided 
value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just because Ms F may not 
have received value for money, I can only say an account was mis-sold if something went 
wrong during the sales process and in this instance I dont think that this was the case.
My final decision
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman