DRN-4376458
The complaint
Mr A complains that BISL Limited mis-sold him an optional extra when he bought his third 
party fire and theft motor insurance policy. He wants it to increase its offer of compensation.
 
What happened
Mr A took out a policy through BISL and bought Guaranteed Replacement Car (GRC) cover. 
But when he was involved in an incident with an uninsured driver BISL said GRC wouldnt 
apply. Mr A thought the exclusion from cover wasnt made clear to him at the point of sale or 
on BISLs website. He thought hed been mis-sold GRC. 
BISL paid Mr A £25 compensation for a dropped call. It said GRC didnt apply as there was 
no-one the insurer could recover its outlay from. But it refunded Mr A the cost of the GRC 
from inception. BISL also agreed the exclusion wasnt made clear on its website. It offered 
Mr A the benefits he would have been entitled to if his claim had been accepted, £10 a day 
for loss of use for 14 days. But Mr A wanted £350, and the costs of his storage reimbursed. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought BISL 
had agreed it had made an error, but he thought its offers to put things right were fair and 
reasonable. He thought it had covered Mr As hire costs. He thought it wasnt responsible for 
Mr As storage costs as he could have mitigated his losses and removed his car sooner.  
Mr A replied that hed have incurred £420 hire costs, but hed borrowed cars instead. He 
thought BISL should pay him this and £100 for his monthly direct debits after his car was 
written off. Mr A asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated that he didnt receive the benefits he expected 
from the GRC option he had bought through BISL. The sale of the policy by the broker, BISL 
was non-advised. This means it has a responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information to policyholders. 
And, on this occasion, BISL agreed that it didnt do this. This was because the policy 
documents and BISLs website didnt make it clear that GRC didnt apply when the claim 
was for damage, the policy was third party, fire and theft and the other party was uninsured. 
In this case, the claim wouldnt be accepted as the insurer had no-one from whom to recover 
its outlay. 
When a business makes a mistake, as BISL accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
BISL refunded Mr As premiums for his GRC option from when he first took out his policy. 
The option would have provided Mr A with a hire car for 14 days. Mr A had hired a car for 
four days, paying £120, and then borrowed cars or used alternatives. 
BISL offered Mr A £140 for his loss of use. This was calculated at £10 a day which I am 
satisfied is the industry standard compensation for loss of use. So Im satisfied that BISLs 
offer restores Mr As position to what it would have been without its error and considers the 
impact the error had on him. And so I think its offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr A thought he should be paid £420 for hire costs as this is what he would have incurred if 
he had hire for 14 days. But I dont think this is fair or reasonable because BISLs offer 
covers Mr As actual expenditure and I dont think its fair for Mr A to benefit from its mistake. 
Mr A also thought BISL should reimburse his storage costs. But I can see that BISL dealt 
with his claim promptly and Mr A could have disposed of his car sooner than he did, and so 
avoided storage costs. Storage isnt provided under the GRC option. So Mr A would have 
incurred these costs regardless of the GRC. And so I cant say that BISL is responsible for 
these losses. 
Mr A has also explained that BISL continued to collect his monthly premium after his car was 
disposed of. But this isnt something I can consider here as I cant see that Mr A has raised 
this concern with BISL to give it a chance to respond.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman