DRN-4390879
The complaint
Miss S complains that Wakam unfairly declined her claim for theft of personal possessions 
from her car.
What happened
Miss S had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Wakam. She claimed under 
the personal possessions section of her policy after her belongings were stolen from her car. 
The car was parked on her drive when the theft happened.
Wakam declined the claim because the personal possessions section only covered 
possessions away from the home. Wakam considered the drive to form part of Miss Ss 
home. Wakam looked at whether cover was available under the contents section of the 
policy. However, because there was no evidence of force or violence, Wakam said the policy 
didnt provide cover under the theft section.
Miss S complained. She didnt think it was right for Wakam to consider her claim under the 
theft section because the policy wording didnt include her drive in the definition of home. 
She said the personal possessions did provide cover and asked Wakam to settle her claim.
Wakam issued its final response stating that there was no cover under the policy for the 
reasons it had previously given. Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Wakam had done anything wrong, so she didnt uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. Our investigator thought Wakam had relied on the correct wording within the 
policy booklet, and it declined the claim fairly.
Miss S didnt agree. She remained of the opinion that the theft should be covered under the 
personal possessions section of the policy.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Miss Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The theft itself doesnt appear to be in dispute. The main issue of complaint is whether 
Wakam considered the claim under the appropriate policy terms and conditions. Miss S said 
it shouldve accepted the claim under the personal possessions cover.
Personal possessions claim
The policy defines personal possessions as:
Items that belong to you or for which you are legally responsible including:
1. valuables, sports equipment and cycles, and
2. luggage, clothes and any other items you normally wear or carry.
The policy schedule confirms Miss S had personal possessions as add-on cover, and the 
policy booklet describes cover as follows:
Personal Possessions
We will cover up to £2,000 per item for loss, theft, damage or accidental damage to your 
personal possessions while they are:
a) temporarily away from your home anywhere within the United Kingdom for up to 
60 consecutive days, or
b) temporarily away from your home anywhere in the rest of the world for up to 60 
consecutive days up to £1,000.
This includes cover for:
a) personal possessions stolen from an unattended vehicle, if the vehicle is locked 
and your personal possessions are hidden from view in a closed glove 
compartment or locked boot,
The maximum amount insured for personal possessions is £10,000.
Miss S makes the point that her drive isnt included in the policy definition of home, therefore 
she thinks theft from her car on her drive must be away from the home. The policy defines 
home as:
The main building which you live in, garages which are part of or attached to the main 
building, and outbuildings all within the boundaries of the address shown on your 
schedule. The maximum size of your home in total should not exceed 250 square metres
The definition refers only to buildings, so I accept Miss Ss reasoning that her drive isnt 
included. 
The next consideration, then, is whether the drive is reasonably classed as away from the 
home, as referred to under the personal possessions cover.
Looking at the insurance product information document (IPID) which summarises Miss Ss 
cover, it shows the following under the add-on covers heading:
Contents:
Accidental damage to your contents,
Personal possessions away from your property.
The definition of property is:
The risk address shown in your schedule which you are legally responsible for.So, taking into consideration the relevant policy definitions, Im satisfied that Miss Ss drive 
can reasonably be considered part of her property as it is enclosed within the boundaries of 
the address on her schedule. Therefore, I dont think Wakam unfairly declined her claim 
under the personal possessions section of the policy because her car was not away from her 
property.
Contents in the open
Miss S didnt think Wakam shouldve considered the claim under the theft section of her 
contents insurance. I dont think it was unreasonable for Wakam to look for other parts of the 
policy under which Miss Ss claim mightve been successful. 
Miss Ss policy provides cover for contents within the boundary of her home. Ive already 
explained that the drive meets this definition. The policy provides cover as follows:
15. Contents in the open and within the boundaries of your home
We will pay up to £1,000 per incident for loss or damage to contents (not including pedal 
cycles) which are in the open or under a carport within the boundaries of your property 
caused by covers 1, 4 to 12, also Option A - Accidental damage to your contents if you 
have selected that cover.
We dont cover:
a) loss or damage to valuables, money, credit cards or business equipment;
b) loss or damage to plants, trees, flowers and shrubs in moveable pots or 
containers caused by the weight of snow;
c) loss or damage caused by storm, frost or flood;
d) theft of pedal cycles unless they are securely locked to a solid object which cannot 
be moved; and
e) loss or damage which happens while your home is unoccupied or unfurnished.
Theft is included within covers 4 to 12, so the conditions must be met to have a successful 
claim. 
5. Theft or attempted theft
We will cover loss or damage to your contents while they are in your home if:
a) this was caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to 
your home;
The concern I have here is that thered be no reason to expect evidence of force and 
violence to the home if the contents are already in the open. Wakam declined the claim 
because there was no evidence of force and violence to the car. But the car does not fall 
within the definition of home, so I dont necessarily think its fair to rely on the absence of 
force and violence to Miss Ss car as a valid exclusion. Theres no mention of what the policy 
does or doesnt cover for theft from a car on the drive. So, in the absence of any clear 
exclusion, I cant say that Wakam fairly declined the claim under the theft of contents 
section. 
For that reason, Im minded to ask Wakam to reconsider the claim without relying on the 
force and violence condition. Claim handling
Miss S says Wakam didnt handle her claim as well as it shouldve done. She says it 
repeatedly asked for information shed already provided, and it delayed reaching a decision 
on her claim. She also said Wakam didnt respond to her complaint as it shouldve done.
While I accept Miss S was unhappy with the level of service she received, I havent seen any 
evidence to support that. I understand Miss S is aware that I cant consider complaint 
handling as part of my decision.
Therefore, I see no reason to require Wakam to make any compensation payment.
Overall, I think this complaint has come about because of a lack of clarity in some parts of 
the policy document. I think theres a common-sense approach to the claim which couldve 
been taken, but instead theres been dispute about specific definitions. Therefore, Ive taken 
the policy definitions in their strictest sense, which means Wakam cant expressly rely on the 
requirement for evidence of force and violence to gain entry to the home for a theft which 
happened from Miss Ss car outside the home. But I realise Wakam may not have 
considered the remaining parts of the policy once it decided to decline the claim, so at this 
point I dont think its appropriate to simply ask it to pay the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Wakam didnt provide any further comment.
Miss S said her stance had been properly considered but she pointed out that Wakam did 
look at other parts of the policy, and she provided evidence. Therefore, Miss S thought 
Wakam should be required to pay the claim rather than reconsider it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss S would like Wakam to simply pay her claim. The evidence she 
provided  its final response letter - shows that it had already considered other parts of the 
policy. I accept that. However, the letter explains to Miss S why Wakam didnt think her claim 
fell within either of two parts of her policy. My provisional decision explains why I dont agree 
with its reasoning. 
However, the policy includes many other sections, some of which will be irrelevant to the 
claim circumstances, but others may apply. For example, if some of the belongings stolen 
from the car are excluded from cover, Wakam would need to have the opportunity to 
consider those items against the policy terms and conditions. To be clear, this is just an 
example and may bear no relevance in the circumstances.
In the event that no other policy exclusions apply, then its quite possible Wakam will pay the 
claim. But I cant fairly make that a requirement at this point. Therefore, I remain of the view 
that Wakam should reconsider Miss Ss claim.
However, should Miss S be unhappy with Wakams reconsideration of her claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, shed be entitled to raise a further complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and Wakam must:
reconsider the claim without relying on the force and violence condition for contents 
in the open.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman