DRN-2165473
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the length of time it took Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) to resolve 
problems with her internet banking access. And she doesnt think it has paid enough
compensation for the inconvenience she suffered.
What happened
Mrs B is a sole trader and has a business and personal account with Lloyds.
Around the end of March 2019, a technical fault occurred, which meant Mrs B wasnt able 
to access internet banking on either account. Mrs B was in the middle of setting up new 
business premises at the time, so she had to ask friends to help while she contacted 
Lloyds - by phone and in person - to try to sort out the problem.
Lloyds asked Mrs B to try various password resets (as it initially thought the problem 
stemmed from the wrong log in details being entered) and workarounds. Following further 
investigation, Lloyds restored access to both accounts by mid - May 2019.
Mrs B wasnt happy that shed been without internet banking access for so long.
Lloyds responded to her complaint in May 2019 and said a technical fault caused a loss of 
access. And whilst other banking services were available, Lloyds recognised Mrs Bs 
inconvenience when internet banking - her preferred method - wasnt available. It also 
recognised the added inconvenience when the systems were down on one occasion she 
went into a branch. Lloyds offered Mrs B £300 compensation for the time, inconvenience 
and frustration caused in trying to get the problem fixed. It also offered to reimburse £38.70 
travel expenses incurred in going to the branch (a 14-mile round trip) and £0.65 in respect 
of a cheque deposit fee.
Mrs B rejected Lloyds offer, as she didnt think it was enough overall. Lloyds told Mrs B she 
could contact our service if she wasnt happy.
Mrs B complained to us the following month.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt Lloyds had done enough to recognise 
the inconvenience caused by the system error. In particular, the investigator felt that from 
when the problem was first logged, there were constant attempts by Lloyds to try to fix it.
The investigator also noted other banking options were available to Mrs B when internet 
banking wasnt. He thought the total compensation offered - £339.35- including £300 to 
reflect the inconvenience she suffered along with reimbursing fees and travel expenses 
was fair. So, the investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more.
Mrs B wasnt happy with the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
Whilst looking into Mrs Bs complaint, I noted Lloyds hadnt compensated her for the 
phone calls she made to chase up a resolution to the system issues. I asked Lloyds about 
this and it said it intended to reimburse Mrs B for her calls, but hadnt, due to an oversight. 
Its now agreed to pay Mrs B an additional £18. We put this to Mrs B and whilst she didnt 
comment specifically on the amount Lloyds offered to reimburse her for her calls, she 
again explained why shes not happy with the amount of compensation it paid overall.
My provisional findings
I sent Mrs B and Lloyds my provisional findings on 24 July 2020. Ive included the relevant 
extracts below.
Theres clear agreement between Mrs B and Lloyds that she wasnt able to access internet 
banking for a number of weeks. Mrs B has described in some detail the frustration and 
inconvenience caused in her not having access to all of the services she relied on  at a 
time when she really needed them - because she was setting up a new business. I can 
appreciate it must have been really frustrating for her. Lloyds offered to compensate Mrs B 
for the inconvenience caused. It also agreed to reimburse her for travel and other expenses 
incurred when she had to visit a branch to try to sort things out. But Mrs B doesnt think 
Lloyds compensation offer goes far enough.
Ill say here that technical issues can and do happen. And I can see that from when Mrs B 
first reported them, Lloyds appears to have made several attempts to try to fix the problem 
and gave Mrs B various workarounds to try. I can also see though from Mrs Bs 
perspective it must have been frustrating to be told shed entered the wrong log in 
information, when that appears not to have been the case. In total, it took about seven 
weeks before the problems were fully resolved, and I appreciate thats likely to have 
caused a fair amount of inconvenience. So, the outstanding issue for me to consider is 
whether Lloyds did enough to recognise the extent of the inconvenience caused to Mrs B. 
And if not, whether it needs to do anything more. Unless I receive other evidence, Im likely 
to say Lloyds compensation offer doesnt go far enough. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Lloyds point that other banking services were available to Mrs B during the 
time that internet banking wasnt. Mrs B says she wasnt able to complete all of the 
transactions she wanted to by telephone banking due to the limitations of the service. 
She also says she lost money by not being able to work when having to visit the branch in 
person. She hasnt given specific details of when she couldnt use telephone banking for 
certain transactions, or of any losses incurred. Mrs B also says that she had to ask a third 
party - who she didnt know that well - to pay a supplier on her behalf. Ive thought about 
this and whilst I can appreciate why asking a third party to help might in the end have 
seemed a quicker way to resolve payment issues, I dont think it would be fair to say 
Lloyds should compensate Mrs B for that.
I say that because irrespective of Mrs Bs comments about the telephone banking service, 
that service and branch banking were available during the time that internet banking 
wasnt. And, as Mrs B was going to the branch anyway, it seems she could just as easily 
have asked branch staff to pay a supplier on her behalf - particularly if she was worried 
about asking a third party who she didnt know very well to do that. Mrs B told Lloyds she 
didnt arrange a payment in branch because the supplier initially suggested she deferred 
the payment until her internet access was up and running again. And on another occasion 
the branch systems were down due to planned maintenance. I appreciate the supplier 
wouldnt have realised how long Mrs Bs internet access would be down and may not have 
suggested deferring the payment had they known it would take weeks to resolve. But I do 
think there were other opportunities for Mrs B to make the payment - in the branch or by 
phone. So, whilst I appreciate Mrs Bs decision, for the reasons Ive outlined, Im not going 
to ask Lloyds to do anything more about this.Mrs B also told Lloyds she had to enlist friends help with renovating business premises 
whilst she took time out to visit the branch and make phone calls. And she says she offered 
them beauty services in exchange for their help, which came at a cost to her. I can see why 
Mrs B might want to offer goodwill gestures to friends who helped her. But I dont think 
thats the same as saying Mrs B suffered an actual financial loss as a direct result of Lloyds 
actions. And I havent seen any evidence to show theres a loss that could be directly 
linked to Lloyds actions. So, for those reasons, I wont be asking Lloyds to reimburse 
Mrs B for the loss she said she incurred.
But the fact remains Mrs B made several trips to the branch- trips that she wouldnt 
otherwise have made - if shed had the full system access she relied on. And she also 
made phone calls to Lloyds to chase updates or when suggested workarounds failed. And I 
have no doubt that all of that would have been a hassle for her.
I noted Lloyds compensation offer didnt reflect Mrs Bs telephone costs in having to 
chase Lloyds for progress reports on the system issues. So, I asked Lloyds about that. 
Lloyds accepts it hadnt included these costs in its compensation payment due to an 
oversight. It has now offered to pay an additional £18 to Mrs B to reimburse the cost of 
her calls. Mrs B isnt able to provide her phone bills yet (as theyre with her accountant), 
so Ive thought about whether Lloyds offer seems reasonable. Research suggests calls to 
an 0345 number from a mobile phone cost anywhere between 3p and 55p per minute 
depending on the provider. Calls from a landline are typically around 9p per minute. 
Lloyds has offered to pay Mrs B £18 for 90 minutes of calls, so thats 20p a minute. 
Im satisfied that offer seems reasonable.
Ive also thought about whether the rest of Lloyds original compensation offer  to pay Mrs B 
£339.35 - fairly reflects the level of inconvenience Mrs Bs likely to have suffered and the 
additional expenditure she incurred. Im satisfied it fairly reflects her additional expenditure 
and goes some way to recognising her inconvenience. However, on balance, Im not 
persuaded it fully reflects the number of branch visits she appears to have made and the 
inconvenience shes likely to have suffered because of that. When thinking about this, Ive 
taken account of the fact Mrs B was busy setting up a new business thats likely to have 
demanded her attention  attention that would have been diverted in having to visit a branch 
a fair distance away. So, I think the impact is likely to have been keenly felt by Mrs B. 
Unless I receive other evidence, Im minded to say Lloyds should increase its compensation 
offer in respect of the inconvenience Mrs B suffered to £400. I think this, together with Lloyds 
offer to reimburse Mrs Bs additional expenditure and costs, fairly recognises the impact that 
the system error had on Mrs B.
So, whilst I appreciate Mrs B is still likely to be disappointed because she thinks Lloyds 
should have paid her considerably more, Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable outcome 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Response to my provisional decision.
Mrs B responded and said that whilst shes not happy with the decision, she accepts my 
proposed award. Lloyds hasnt responded.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Lloyds or Mrs B have given me new information to consider, or given me cause to 
revisit what I said in my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to depart from what I said in that decision. Ive now set out my final decision below. 
My final decision
I direct Lloyds Bank plc to increase its compensation offer to a total of £457.35,
broken down as follows:
£400 (increasing its original offer of £300 by £100) in respect of the time; 
frustration and inconvenience Mrs B suffered in having to visit a branch to 
try to resolve the system issues;
£38.70 in respect of her mileage;
£18 to reimburse the costs of Mrs Bs calls;
.65 to reimburse a cheque processing fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman