DRN-2016164
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Miss G says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss G opened a store card account in a shop in 2002. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Gs card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included some purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said Miss G 
suffered from type 1 diabetes when she took the policy out. She wouldn't have been able to 
make a successful accident or sickness claim under the policy if the claim resulted from that 
condition. And the adjudicator thought that if AXA had given Miss G clear enough 
information about the restriction on claims for existing medical conditions, shed have 
decided not to take the PPI.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
As the adjudicator mentioned, Miss G had type 1 diabetes. Shed been diagnosed with the 
condition a few years before she took out the PPI. AXA has commented that the condition is 
usually manageable. It says it would be treated with medication and wouldnt affect the 
patients lifestyle. And it doesnt believe that type 1 diabetes alone is enough for the policy to 
be regarded as unsuitable, as it may never have affected Miss G. So it thinks its unlikely 
shed have thought, at the time when she took the PPI out, that shed need to claim for the 
condition.
Im not convinced by this argument. The policy wouldnt have paid out any disability benefits 
resulting from any sickness, disease, condition or injury which the policyholder knew about 
when the policy started.
Its true that Miss Gs told us that her diabetes was well controlled with several injections 
every day. And she says she cant remember having had time off work for it. But diabetes is 
a serious condition and it has the potential to result in a range of other serious medical 
conditions. Overall, Im not convinced that Miss G would have thought the policy good value 
for money if it had been pointed out clearly to her that she wouldnt be able to make a 
successful claim for any condition that might result from her diabetes. And I dont think shed 
have taken it out.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Miss G would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss G owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what 
Miss G would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until 
she gets the refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss G would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss G paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Miss G paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Miss G would have owed AXA something on her store 
card.
D. AXA should tell Miss G what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss G that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax AXA has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman