DRN-3274376
The complaint
Mr B complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Mr B as follows:
LoanDate 
loan 
takenDate paid Capital 
loan 
amountLoan termMonthly 
Repayment
1 15/02/2015 Dec 2015 £2,000 24 months £204.21
2 08/12/2016 21/08/2019 £6,000 36 months £334.09
3 21/08/2019 Outstanding £6,077.31 48 months £316.20
Mr B brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it directly with Everyday 
Loans. During the course of our investigation, Everyday Loans confirmed it agreed to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 1 and take the steps to put things right that we would 
expect a lender to do. 
So our adjudicator concentrated on looking into Mr Bs complaint about loans 2 and 3. He 
didnt think Everyday Loans should have provided Mr B with any of the loans.
Everyday Loans responded by telling us that it would review the case but this was some time 
ago and despite reminders it has not responded to our adjudicators view letter in any detail. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
Our adjudicator set a deadline for getting back to us with any comments and this has now 
expired. So despite not having heard back from Everyday Loans. I think it is fair and 
reasonable for me to proceed. And as Everyday Loans has already agreed to uphold loan 1, 
I dont think I need to say more about this loan, except to include it in the redress part of my 
decision.
Ive independently reviewed the complaint and having done so, I am upholding Mr Bs 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
loan 2
Everyday Loans gathered information from Mr B by asking his about his income and 
expenses. Its not clear whether in fact it also looked at some of his recent bank statements 
before it agreed to lend to him as it told us these arent on its lending file  nor can it now 
see a payslip. But it looks like it relied on statistical information which indicated what the 
likely living expenses would be for someone in Mr Bs particular circumstances based on 
national UK averages. It also checked Mr Bs credit file to understand his existing monthly 
credit commitments and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it 
was satisfied that the loan was affordable for Mr B. It worked out that he should have around 
£69 spare cash after making the repayment for this loan on top of all his other monthly 
outgoings. 
But I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision when it provided this 
loan.
As the term and the cost of the loan was relatively high, and Everyday Loans was aware that 
Mr B didnt appear to have very much spare cash left after paying the loan, I think 
reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve involved Everyday Loans obtaining a 
thorough knowledge of Mr Bs financial circumstances, including evidence. I say this 
because the monthly cost presented a high risk of becoming unaffordable or unsustainable 
over the term of the loan. Everyday Loans checks needed to be borrower focused, so they 
needed a thorough understanding of Mr Bs
financial circumstances to be satisfied he could afford the loan.
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown around the time 
Mr B applied for this loan.
Everyday Loans could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking. 
But Mr B has provided his bank statements from around the time of this loan and, in the 
absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide to Mr Bs finances at the 
time. So Ive looked through these to see what Everyday Loans was likely to have found out 
about his overall financial situation had it carried out more in-depth checks. 
And had Everyday Loans done what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check in these 
circumstances, it would likely have seen that Mr B was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would have learnt that Mr B was regularly spending significant amounts 
on what appear to be gambling transactions.
There was also evidence apparent on his bank statements showing that Mr B was financially 
over-stretched, typically overdrawn on his current account by a four figure amount and 
paying overdraft fees. Overall, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have satisfied 
itself that providing this loan to Mr B wouldnt put him in a worse position given the evidence 
it saw which suggested there was a real risk that he might use this loan for gambling 
purposes.
And if it did see an up to date bank statement at the time as part of the loan application 
process, then its likely it wouldve seen this information.  
Even allowing for the fact that the loan purpose was understood to be for debt consolidation, 
this makes no difference to my decision. Its unclear what debts were to be consolidated  
and whilst I can see from the credit checks Everyday Loans obtained that the loan could 
have been helpful if it had been put towards clearing Mr Bs credit card and overdraft, I think 
Everyday Loans should have recognised the clear risk, given the evidence of Mr Bs 
spending, that the loan would more likely go towards funding gambling. 
As far as I can see, Everyday Loans took no steps to keep control over how the loan was 
used as it paid the money direct to Mr Bs bank account. 
So, for all these reasons, I dont think Everyday Loans shouldve provided loan 2.
.
loan 3
Everyday Loans carried out similar checks when Mr B applied for his third loan which 
Mr B used to repay the outstanding balance on loan 2 and provide him with some extra 
money. 
But even though it felt its affordability assessment showed the repayments for this loan 
should be affordable for Mr B, I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account the 
information on its up to date credit checks. 
I think that Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr Bs credit history showed that 
managing his debt had got beyond his control. Everyday Loans saw that he had very 
substantially increased the amount of credit he was using  its credit check showed he 
had multiple unsecured and payday loans, thousands of pounds owing on credit cards and 
there was clear evidence of money problems as there was a debt collection agency listed.
Given what Everyday Loans shouldve known about Mr Bs gambling spending (and 
possibly it had seen this information) I think it ought reasonably to have recognised that 
this was the most likely reason for Mr Bs escalating and over-reliance on expensive 
credit. 
And it shouldve realised that it was irresponsible to lend further to him. 
The fact that Mr B said this loan was also intended for debt consolidation isnt a reason for 
me not to uphold this complaint. 
Even if Mr B had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Everyday Loans 
had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given the loan 
amount and his outstanding indebtedness overall. So, for all these reasons, I dont think Everyday Loans was reasonably able to say that the 
loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr B. So I am upholding Mr Bs complaint 
that he should not have been given this loan.
Mr B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on loans that he shouldnt 
have been provided with so he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr B hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly towards him in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending.
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what 
I have outlined below or otherwise, liaise with the new debt owner to do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given 
loans 1,2 and 3. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically 
whilst its fair that Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a 
loan that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman