DRN-1463155
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a store card in 2000 by completing a leaflet in store. At the same time she 
was sold a PPI policy to cover her card repayments if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld because she thought it was 
clear from the paperwork that Mrs M had a choice in taking the policy and didnt have 
enough evidence to say Mrs M wasnt eligible for the policy.  
Mrs M disagreed, she said she wasnt working when the policy was sold to her.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in November 
2019. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither FICL or Mrs M have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In my provisional decision I said that:
"FICL were under a duty to provide Mrs M with information on PPI in a clear, fair and non-
misleading way so she could make an informed choice about whether or not she wanted to 
take PPI.
I dont think FICL did give Mrs M clear enough information about whether she would be 
eligible for cover under the policy. I think this because to be eligible for cover under the 
policy Mrs M had to be in permanent paid employment for a minimum of 16 hours a week.
Mrs M has told us that she wasnt working at the time the policy was sold to her. FICL have 
given me a copy of the credit agreement and I can see that the section on employment 
details has been left clear. Ive also seen a copy of another credit agreement for a store card 
taken out less than a year earlier where under employment details Mrs M has selected the 
box for House Person.
So Im satisfied that it is likely Mrs M wasnt in paid employment at the time the policy was 
sold to her and wouldnt have met the eligibility criteria to benefit from the policy. And I dont 
think Miss T wouldve agreed to take a policy where she would be paying for something that 
she couldnt benefit from.I cant see anywhere on the credit agreement that explains the eligibility criteria and I dont 
think expecting Mrs M to read the full policy document to find out if she is eligible for the 
policy is providing information in a clear or fair way. 
So I don't think FICL did give clear enough information to Mrs M on the eligibility 
requirements of the policy. I think if Mrs M had understood she wasnt eligible for the policy 
she wouldnt have agreed to take it."
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
FICL should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owes and what she would have 
owed.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
If  when FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M wouldve 
owed FICL something on her store card. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 
1993 and 8% a year from then on.
FICL should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained I uphold Mrs M's complaint against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct it to pay the fair compensation as outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman