DRN-3966227
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T, complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) 
treated it unfairly by failing to defend a chargeback claim that was made against it.   
In bringing this complaint, T is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B.
  
What happened
The background to this case is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail.
Briefly: 
In September 2019 T signed a merchant processing agreement (the Agreement) with 
Barclays whereby Barclays provided processing facilities for Ts card paying 
customers. 
In December 2021 one of Ts former students, who Ill refer to as Ms C, booked to 
attend a course costing just over £4,800. 
On 12 December 2021 using her Mastercard, Ms C paid a deposit of £890.  On 20 
December, using the same card she paid the remaining balance of £3,943.50. 
In January 2022, Ms C wrote to T to say that for health reasons she could no longer 
continue the course. She later raised a chargeback claim for the £890 deposit that 
shed paid.
In March 2022, Barclays wrote to T concerning this chargeback and requested 
various items of information to help defend it. 
T did so and included evidence demonstrating the deposit was non-refundable and 
the chargeback claim was unsuccessful. 
Ms C, however, raised a second chargeback claim in connection with the £3,943.50 
balance that shed later paid for the course. 
And as theyd done in respect of the previous claim, on 12 May 2022 Barclays wrote 
to T alerting it to this second chargeback. Barclays said that if T disagreed with the 
claim, then it should within 14 days of the date of Barclays letter provide them with 
various items of information set out in the banks letter.
T didnt respond within the timeframe and the chargeback was debited to Ts 
account.  
In June 2022 when Ts monthly statement arrived, it noticed the debited amount and 
complained to Barclays. 
T didnt think Barclays should have allowed the chargeback to go undefended. It said 
it didnt receive Barclays 12 May letter.  But in any event, it maintained that when it 
was asked for evidence to defend the first chargeback for the £890, it had told 
Barclays that Ms C had used the same card for a subsequent payment and that she 
might submit another claim, which in its opinion would be equally unmeritorious. 
T believed that Barclays hadnt recorded on its file what it had told them about Ms Cs 
likely future action. So, according to T they were at fault that the second chargeback 
claim went undefended. T, therefore, asked Barclays to refund the amount theyd 
debited from its account.
But Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They relied on their 12 May 2022 letter 
they sent to T. And they said that it was in light of Ts failure to respond with the information 
theyd requested within the timeframe given, that they were unable to defend the 
chargeback. 
More generally, Barclays said that although it is true that both of the transactions were taken 
on the same card, nonetheless they were for different amounts and on different dates. 
Firstly, the deposit and then later the outstanding amount. They said the deposit was more 
than likely non-refundable which is why that chargeback was reversed.
Since the complaint remained unresolved, it was referred to our service to look into. 
Our investigator was satisfied that Barclays did write to T on 12 May 2022 regarding Ms Cs 
chargeback claim and requested Ts response within 14 days. And although she 
acknowledged T did not receive the letter which meant it missed the response date, 
nonetheless in the absence of that response, she didnt think the bank was in a position to 
defend the chargeback. 
She said given that our role is to investigate whether Barclays followed the correct procedure 
and whether they applied the relevant chargeback rules correctly, she was satisfied that they 
had.  Against that background she concluded Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and she 
was unable therefore to uphold Ts complaint.
T didnt accept the investigators conclusions and on its behalf Mr B has asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case. In his submission, Mr B has mainly restated the position T 
has maintained all along  which I summarise:
Given its advance warning, of Ms Cs likely action, when as it had anticipated she did 
make the second chargeback claim, the banks system should have alerted the case 
handler to what was happening. And in light of the first claim being rejected, the 
same should also have happened in respect of the second chargeback. 
Barclays have produced no evidence to show that their chargeback letter was sent 
through the Royal Mails registered system - meaning they have no evidence T 
received their letter.
In the circumstances it is unfair for Barclays to decline a refund of the second 
chargeback which Ms C was successful in claiming. 
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I should start by explaining that a chargeback is the process by which disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants under the relevant card Scheme rules  in this case 
Mastercard. Essentially under a chargeback, customers are allowed to ask for the reversal of 
a transaction if they consider theres a problem with the goods or services for which theyve 
paid. Therefore, Ms C was entitled to raise the chargebacks that she in fact did. 
Barclays dont, however, operate the Scheme or decide if a chargeback is successful. They 
can only decide whether or not to defend it. If the merchants bank chooses to defend the 
chargeback, the case will then go before the card scheme for consideration of the evidence. 
In these circumstances, the merchant has a limited period in which to submit their evidence 
to the card scheme in response to the claim. So, it is important that the merchant is informed 
as quickly as possible about the chargeback, and information supporting a challenge is 
quickly passed on to the card scheme.
Mr B has raised doubts about whether Barclays did notify T about the chargeback in May 
2022 as they said they did. In particular, bearing in mind the letter was not sent to T through 
Royal Mails recorded delivery system. 
Under Clause 21 of the Agreement, however, Barclays have discretion regarding the written 
method by which they send notices to their customers.  And the clause does go on to say 
that if any notice is sent by first class post it will be treated as being received two days after it 
was posted or three days in the case of second-class post. And this applies even if the 
notice is not delivered or is returned undelivered.   
Barclays have provided a copy of the letter they sent to T dated 12 May 2022. I note it was 
correctly addressed and I have no reason to doubt that like the first letter it too was sent to T. 
T said it did not receive the letter and I have no reason to doubt that either. 
Barclays did as reasonably they were expected to do which was to notify T about the 
chargeback and to ask if it wished to challenge it. I am not persuaded that Barclays did 
anything wrong in how they made T aware of the chargebacks  including omitting to send 
the letter by registered delivery post as they were not required to do so under the 
Agreement. 
Its unfortunate the letter wasnt received by T which meant it didnt respond within the time 
frame requested. Its difficult to explain what happened especially given the fact that 
Barclayss first notification in March 2022 arrived safely.
However, I dont think I could reasonably hold Barclays responsible for that. And unfortunate 
though that is, Ts failure to provide the evidence the bank had asked for meant they were 
unable to defend the second chargeback. 
Ive also thought about Ts case that the banks system should have picked up on its 
representation to the bank when defending the first chargeback. In particular that Ms C might submit another chargeback in respect of the second tranche of payment and should 
therefore have defended it. 
Although Barclays acknowledge that both the initial deposit and subsequent payment were 
made using the same card, nonetheless as theyve correctly pointed out and T does not 
disagree, they were for different amounts and took place on different dates as were the 
chargeback claims. 
But Barclays wrote to T for evidence in order to challenge each chargeback. Whilst T may 
well have alerted Barclays to the possibility of a second chargeback, I dont think Barclays 
were wrong when, on receiving the claim, they at that point asked for evidence to support a 
challenge. 
Ultimately what happened here was that Barclays didnt receive the evidence they asked for 
from T within the timeframe T was given. And whilst I sympathise with T that the reason it did 
not respond in time was because it did not receive the letter, as I concluded above, I cannot 
fairly blame Barclays for that. 
Having not received the information they asked for, Barclays have said they were unable to 
defend it. In the circumstances I do not think I can reasonably conclude Barclays were at 
fault for not doing so. 
I am aware Mr B feels very strongly on this matter and believes Ms C has received a 
chargeback she wasnt entitled to. However, that would be relevant to a dispute between T 
and Ms C. Im afraid its not relevant to Ts dispute with Barclays. 
As to whether Barclays should refund the chargeback, Ive noted that Clause 4 of the 
Agreement, set out the circumstances in which Barclays are allowed to debit Ts account in 
respect of payments theyve already made.  Including where a claim is received from a card 
holder for not receiving services from the merchant. It goes on to say:
if you have to pay us back for a chargeback, the amount will be a debt from you to 
us which you will owe immediately and you agree that we have the right to deduct the 
relevant amount from your bank account.
In the circumstances, and although I anticipate this will come as disappointing news to T, I 
do not find Barclays has acted unfairly when they deducted the ££3,943.50 from its account 
and declined its request that it should be reimbursed. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman