DRN-2684692
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited (SBL) relates to a delayed transfer of 
funds, which he says gave him concern as to the whereabouts of his money and caused him 
inconvenience in having to contact both the sending and receiving bank. Mr K further 
complains that SBL did not call him to discuss his complaint, that the complaint handler was 
lying to him, and he is unhappy with the tone of SBLs final response letter.
What happened
Mr K transferred a sum of money from one bank account to another on a Saturday in 
February 2020. The payment ought to have credited to his account on the following Monday 
but did not. Mr K sent a secure message to SBL on the Monday at 17.20pm asking for an 
explanation. SBL said that there had been an internal system error resulting in Mr Ks 
deposit to his account being delayed. However, they said that for interest purposes interest 
had been credited from the Monday resulting in no loss to Mr K.
Mr K took issue with the tone of SBLs final response letter and believed there was a 
fabrication contained therein to the effect that his account had been credited on the Monday 
whereas he had previously been told it had not been credited until the following day. 
SBL confirmed they did not attempt to discuss Mr Ks complaint with him on the telephone, 
rather they sent him their final response letter on 8 March. They said that whilst there had 
been a system error, Mr Ks deposit had been received on the Monday, and not the 
Tuesday, and interest had been applied from the Monday too.
Mr K was unhappy with SBLs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that SBL hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
 
Mr K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The accepted facts are that SBL had a system issue and the funds Mr K was trying to 
deposit to his account did not deposit when they were supposed to. One aspect to this 
complaint is when those funds were eventually credited to Mr Ks account. Mr K believes it 
was the Tuesday and has referred to a message which he received on the Tuesday 
confirming his deposit had been received yesterday and had been rectified today. This he 
says contradicts SBLs final response letter wherein they say his deposit was credited to his 
account later in the day on the Monday. Having considered this evidence, I think Mr K is 
right. The funds were not credited to Mr Ks account on the Monday. When he made contact 
at 17.20pm they certainly hadnt been and so if SBL are correct it must have been after that 
and before midnight. Given the wording of their messages and communications, and their 
references to his account being credited with the days interest, so you are not at any loss of 
interest, I think it more likely than not that the error us in the wording of the final response 
letter.
That takes me to the issue of whether SBL have lied to Mr K as he asserts. I dont think that 
is the case. To lie is to deliberately and intentionally deceive another. The thrust of SBLs 
response has been one openness in describing very quickly they had a system error, and 
then explaining that it had been resolved with no loss to Mr K. I am satisfied that SBL did not 
lie to Mr K.
I have also considered the tone of the final response letter. I find it to be clear, 
straightforward and without issue. It recites the history to the complaint inviting correction if it 
should be wrong. It details the investigation and offers an explanation about the faster 
payments system and the process of clearing payments. Mr Ks rights to approach this 
service were clearly set out for him and he was invited to respond to a dedicated telephone 
number or email address if he wished.
The final aspect of Mr Ks complaint is with regard to SBL not contacting him to discuss the 
complaint. How SBL manage their complaints process is a matter for them and this service 
do not generally look at complaints relating to a businesss complaints handling process. 
However, we have a discretion to do so, if it is related to the substantive complaint and here 
I think it is. Having decided this is something I can look into I do not think SBL have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. When Mr K first contacted SBL, they replied by message the 
following day. Mr Ks response to that was also answered the day after. Mr K then accepts 
that there was an exchange of emails resulting in the final response letter. I have not seen 
any evidence that phone contact was promised but never delivered, rather that all 
communication was taking place in writing. I think therefore it was reasonable to issue the 
final response letter without making a telephone call to discuss the complaint further, since it 
would appear to have been discussed through email.
In conclusion I accept that SBL had a system error and this led to a delayed credit to Mr Ks 
account. But that delay caused no financial loss to Mr K since interest was applied from the 
date the deposit ought to have been credited. I dont accept SBL lied to Mr K or that the tone 
of its final response letter was unfair in any way. And I dont feel that SBL not calling Mr K to 
discuss his complaint is unfair or unreasonable, since his complaint was discussed and 
answered in writing. 
Problems and issues such as those encountered by Mr K very often lead a customer to 
experience frustration, annoyance and inconvenience, which we as a service term trouble 
and upset. When we find this has occurred we think about what a business could do to put 
matters right, and awarding compensation is one way of doing that. But awards for the 
trouble and upset need to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life 
we all face when dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising 
that that can be inconvenient at times.  
I know Mr K feels that because of SBLs accepted error he should be awarded compensation 
of £250 but I do not think that fair. Mr K was rightly concerned about the whereabouts of his money, but that concern was quickly addressed the following day at 11.55am. As such the 
inconvenience, trouble and upset likely to have been caused would have been minimal. And 
SBL put right the issue of any financial loss by ensuring his account recorded that for interest 
purposes his deposit was deemed to have been credited on the Monday.
So, although Mr K will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say SBL has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman