The complaint
Mr M has complained about Amtrust International Underwriters DACs handling of his Tyre 
and Alloy Wheel Cover insurance policy.
Reference to Amtrust includes their agents.
What happened
One of the alloy wheels on Mr Ms car was damaged after being scraped against a curb. He 
claimed on his policy with Amtrust in April 2019. The alloy wheel was repaired in May 2019.
The wheel in its original state had writing etched on it including the manufacturers brand. 
But once it was refurbished the etching was removed and not redone. Mr M complained 
saying the repaired wheel no longer matched the other wheels and, as a result, devalued his 
car.
Amtrust didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said their repair agent had told Mr M before 
carrying out the repair that the etching would be affected and couldnt be redone. Mr M 
disputes that and said he was never told that. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Amtrust had dealt with Mr M fairly. As Mr 
M didnt think that was fair, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr M, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ms points carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. 
The policy says that Amtrust will: 
cover the cost of repairs in the event that you damage an alloy wheel or tyre during 
the period of cover. We will cover up to 10 alloy wheel repairs of up to £150 (including 
VAT) per repair. In the event that your alloy wheel is damaged beyond repair, we will 
contribute up to £150 (including VAT) towards the cost of a replacement alloy wheel.
Amtrust said the repair work done to Mr Ms alloy wheel cost them £144 which is within the 
policy limit. They said a brand new alloy wheel would have cost £835 including fitting. But 
because the wheel wasnt damaged beyond repair it wasnt replaced. But even if it was 
DRN-1384797beyond repair, under the policy, Amtrust would only have had to contribute £150 towards the 
cost of a new wheel.
I can understand why Mr M is upset because while his alloy wheel has been repaired, it is 
now different to the others as its missing the etching. And he feels that if the etching cant be 
redone, a new replacement wheel should be fitted.
Amtrust have said Mr M was told the etching would be removed during the wheels 
refurbishment and couldnt be redone. But Mr M said he wasnt told that. And there is no 
other independent evidence to confirm what was discussed.
Amtrust said that their approved repairer that did the work doesnt do etching. They also said 
they were not aware of any other company that does that kind of work. But even if the 
etching could be redone on the wheel, I think it would incur an additional cost. Under the 
policy Amtrust were only obliged to cover up to £150 of the claim. And the cost of the 
refurbishment was £144. So, even if the etching could have been done to bring the wheel 
back to its original state, I think there would have been an additional cost. And as Amtrust 
had already covered an amount almost equivalent to the maximum they were obliged to 
under the policy, Mr M would have had to pay for anything above £150. Likewise, I think if 
Amtrusts repairer was able to do the etching, there would have been an additional cost 
which would have taken the cost of the repair over the £150 claim limit. That would have 
meant Mr M would have been liable to pay the costs above the £150 policy.
Mr M wants his wheel to be reinstated back to its original condition, namely undamaged with 
the etching on it. He said if the only way of achieving that is by installing a new wheel, then 
that should be done. But that is not something that Mr M is entitled to under the policy. So 
Im not asking Amtrust to do that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman