DRN-3482155
The complaint
Ms D (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans
she couldnt afford to repay because at the time she was unemployed, and her credit score
was poor.
What happened
Ms D was advanced five home collected loans between December 2015 and September
2017. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 19/12/2015 02/06/2016 21 £23.51
2 £250.00 03/06/2016 24/11/2016 20 £18.75
3 £250.00 24/11/2016 05/04/2017 20 £18.75
4 £250.00 05/04/2017 22/09/2017 20 £18.75
5 £250.00 22/09/2017 24/01/2018 20 £18.75
Following Ms Ds complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold her complaint because it considered that it had carried out proportionate checks
before these loans were advanced.
Ms Ds representative, unhappy with the outcome referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. He didnt think it was unfair of Morses to
have granted loans 1  4.
However, he didnt think Morses should have approved loan 5. The adjudicator concluded 
that this was now the third occasion that Ms D had returned for new lending on the same day 
a previous loan had been repaid and it was now the fourth occasion of re-borrowing. In these
circumstances the adjudicator didnt think this loan was sustainable for Ms D.
Neither Ms D or her representative responded to or acknowledged the assessment.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold loan 5. In summary it said:
There was no evidence Ms D was using other lending or other funds in order to meet 
her repayments.
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties Ms D may have been having at the 
time.
Ms Ds disposable income had increase from loan 3 and she couldve asked for, and 
been granted, larger loans.
Morses considers it appropriate to lend to Ms D because the loans looked affordable 
and sustainable.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision outlining that I was intending to not uphold Ms Ds complaint.
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms D didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings in relation to loans 1  4. So, it seems
this lending isnt in dispute but for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with the adjudicators
outcome and approach for these loans. So, I no longer think that I need to make a finding
about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship between Morses and Ms D.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was reasonable to advance loan 5 to Ms D.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms D could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ds
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms D. These factors include:
Ms D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms D.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms D could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms D was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without unduedifficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ds complaint.
Loan 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan for a couple of factors but the crux of the upheld was that
Ms D returned for new lending on the same day that previous loans had been repaid.
I can quite understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, after all when a consumer
keeps coming back for new lending after loans have been repaid, it could be a sign of a
customer having or likely having financial difficulties.
I can foresee where this sort of situation could lead us to conclude that loan(s) were now
unsustainable for a consumer. For example, cases where each new loan is larger than the
last and or the consumer was potentially declaring smaller sums of disposable income.
And I think there are cases, where this sort of pattern would lead me to conclude that a loan
shouldnt have been granted. But I dont think, having looked at everything that I can fairly
conclude that here.
Ms Ds borrowing didnt always increase with each new loan  indeed, loans 2  5 were for
the same capital value with the same weekly repayment. So, Ms Ds indebtedness didnt
increase and at the same time it looks like Ms Ds disposable income was increasing.
Thinking about these factors, I dont think Morses wouldve likely concluded the loan was
unsustainable for Ms D.
For loan 5, Morses was aware that Ms D had disposable weekly income of £222  which is
the largest amount of disposable income Ms D had declared. So, knowing this, along with 
Ms Ds pattern of needing to return for further borrowing (of the same amount) ought to have 
led Morses to have checked and verified the information she was declaring in order to check 
the loan was affordable for her.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms D declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms D could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ds actual financial position to
ensure loan 5 was affordable for her. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Ds full credit
report. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any
other information that Morses mightve need to consider about Ms Ds general financial 
position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Ms D couldnt afford the loan.
Ms Ds representative hasnt been able to provide copies of her bank statements or a copy
of her full credit report. Without either of these documents, and with no other information
about her situation at the time, its not possible for me to conclude that had Morses carriedout the sorts of checks I think it needed to have done that it wouldve discovered Ms D
couldnt afford the loan repayments.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 5. Even considering what Ms D declared to Morses for her
income and expenditure. Im not minded therefore to think Morses was wrong to have
provided this loan.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Ms Ds complaint about this loan, based on
the current information I have available. Im also not upholding Ms Ds complaint about loans
1  4.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Ms D and Morses were asked to provide any further information for consideration as 
soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 13 May 2022. 
Neither Ms D nor Morses has responded to the provisional decision and both were reminded 
of the deadline by an adjudicator. 
As the deadline for responses has now passed, I see no reason why I cant issue the final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided by either Morses or Ms D I see no reason to 
depart from the findings which I made in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out a proportionate check before it granted loan 5. However, 
without any further information from Ms D about her circumstance at the time, I cant say 
what Morses may have seen had it carried out the level of check Id have expected it to. 
Therefore, as it stands, Morses appears to have made a reasonable decision to lend.  
Im therefore not upholding Ms Ds complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman