DRN-3078337
The complaint
Mr C complains about how QIC Europe Ltd dealt with a and access claim he made following 
an escape of water within his home. 
What happened
 The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 September 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think QIC had acted reasonably and fairly 
in how it deal with Mr Cs claim. And I outlined the reasons why I was minded to uphold his 
complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr C held a buildings and contents household insurance policy which is provided by QIC. 
This policy was incepted on 3 October 2020 for a period of 12 months and a copy of the 
policy terms and schedule were made available to Mr C at around the time the policy 
commenced.
On 25 November 2020, Mr C contacted QIC to report an escape of water within his ground 
floor bathroom from a burst internal pipe. He managed to turn the water off from the street. 
And he said hed instructed a plumber (P) to attend his home to find the leak, which was 
dealt with under his home emergency policy.
Mr C said P had found the leak  it was coming from the mains stopcock. But he said P 
couldnt access the source of the escape of water. So, he contacted QIC as he wanted to 
claim for the costs of trace and access under his buildings insurance policy.
When Mr C reported the escape of water to QIC, it asked him whether he could see the 
leak. He replied that he could but said the leak couldnt be accessed as there was 
additional pipework in front of the affected pipe that would have to be moved before the 
leaking pipe could be reached. Mr C said QIC told him to repair the leak and provide a 
cause of damage report from a plumber afterwards.
Mr C instructed P to undertake repair work to the leaking pipe. He subsequently 
submitted an invoice together with 12 photographs evidencing the work that had been 
required. Mr C said he thought his claim would be settled. However, he was informed by 
QIC that it was repudiating his claim as the leak was from the mains stopcock andthis 
did not fall within the policy ambit for trace and access. QIC said it had reached that 
decision after its in-house surveying team had reviewed the evidence provided by Mr C.
Mr C complained about QICs decision to repudiate his claim. But QIC didnt uphold his 
complaint stating the works Mr C had undertaken were necessary and required 
completion irrespective of whether the policy would provide cover. So, Mr C referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended upholding Mr 
Cs complaint. They didnt think QIC had dealt with Mr Cs claim fairly and thought it needed 
to pay the invoice hed presented insofar as the trace and access work was concerned in 
full  subject to him providing proof of payment. Mr C accepted our investigators view of 
this complaint but QIC didnt. So, Ive been asked to decide how this complaint should be 
resolved.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr C and QIC for 
the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided and, I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr C or QIC have 
made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the 
key issues  an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
My role is to assess whether I think QIC made a mistake, or treated Mr C unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and QIC 
have said, Ive largely reached the same findings as our investigator. Our investigator 
directed QIC to meet Mr Cs claim for the trace and access work that P undertook in full. 
But they didnt direct QIC to deduct the policy excess applicable to an escape of water 
claim. For this reason, Ive drafted a provisional decision.
Theres no dispute that there was an escape of water within Mr Cs property. But theres 
disagreement between him and QIC about the correct outcome of this claim. In reaching 
a decision about this complaint Ive considered the terms of the policy, the telephone 
recordings QIC provided, what it said about Mr Cs claim and what he said about what 
happened. Ive also taken into account the invoice Mr C provided from P and the 
photographs of the work it undertook.
Under the terms of Mr Cs policy, the cost of repairs to pipes are excluded. This is a typical 
clause within household insurance policies. So, I think QIC acted fairly in declining to 
reimburse Mr C for the cost he incurred for repairs to his pipe. Im therefore not going to 
direct QIC to cover that cost. Ps invoice outlines that the cost of the repair work was £500 
 this part of the invoice therefore isnt recoverable in line with the terms of Mr Cs policy.
In considering whether QIC acted fairly in its decision to decline Mr Cs claim for trace 
and access, I can see that the policy terms clearly state that QIC will pay up to £10,000 
per incident for reasonable and necessary costs to remove any part of the building to find 
the source of the damagecaused by water escaping from any fixed water or heating 
installation, apparatus or pipes.
QIC has said this term only applied where damage was caused by an escape of water. But 
I dont think that would be a fair interpretation in this set of circumstances because Im not 
persuaded that Mr C could have known there was no damage until the source of the leak 
could be accessed. The leaking pipe appears to have been obscured by a cupboard and 
additional pipework, which I think would have made any damage difficult to fully assess 
until access had been obtained.
I think that, if Mr C hadnt taken action because hed been unable to access the leaking 
pipe, this would have caused significant damage. This would have, most likely, resulted in Mr C making a large escape of water claim. He has a duty, as a policyholder, to mitigate his 
loss and any damage caused. And Im satisfied he acted proactively and reasonably in 
instructing P to access the leaking pipework and repair it. I dont think its fair to be critical of 
him for taking this action.
Here, I think it would be unfair for QIC to decline a claim simply based on the fact that 
damage didnt occur. Like our investigator, Im persuaded that, under our fair and 
reasonable remit, Mr C ought to be able to pursue an escape of water claim even in 
circumstances where damage hasnt occurred for the reasons outlined above.
QIC has also argued that the policy term applies only where the source of the escape of 
water needs to be located. And it said it acted fairly in repudiating Mr Cs claim because 
the location of the leak was already known. It further disputes that Mr C incurred any costs 
in finding the source of the escape of water given that its location was known.
Again, I dont think QICs rationale for declining Mr Cs claim is fair. I say this because, 
while Mr C and P thought the escape of water was coming from the mains stopcock this 
couldnt be confirmed with certainty until the pipe could be accessed. Mr C needed to be 
sure that the correct pipe was being repaired by P. So, I think it was reasonable for the 
trace and access work to be undertaken.
On this issue, Mr C has raised concerns about why QIC didnt inform him it wasnt going to 
cover the cost of the trace and access work at the outset of his claim. Ive heard 
recordings of the telephone discussions Mr C had with QIC during November and 
December 2020. So, Ive thought about whether his concerns are fair and reasonable.
During initial telephone calls when Mr C reported his claim, he clearly told QIC that the leak 
could be seen. But he also said the leak couldnt be accessed. And he said he wanted his 
policy to cover the cost of accessing the leak. I think Mr C was candid and upfront with QIC 
about what was happening at every stage of his claim. He appears to be have acted 
reasonably throughout his claim. And it also seems QIC encouraged him to proceed with 
the work he wanted it to authorise.
Its clear to me that Mr C was asking QIC for guidance on the extent of his cover, which it 
ought to have been able to provide. The adviser he spoke with on 25 November placed him 
on hold while she checked the policy. This was after it was known that the source of the 
leak had been identified but couldnt be accessed. So, I think QIC had the opportunity of 
informing Mr C about the exclusions applicable to the escape of water clause at the outset 
of his claim. But it didnt tell him that, because he could see the leak, cover wouldnt be 
extended to him. And it appears that Mr Cs early discussions with QIC left him believing 
that he was, at least, covered for the cost of trace and access work. I think that was unfair.
Here, QIC chose not to instruct a contractor to attend Mr Cs property to undertake the 
trace and access work. So, Mr C was left with no alternative but to instruct a plumber 
himself in what appeared to be an urgent situation. In such circumstances I dont think its 
fair to say the cost of instructing P isnt recoverable.
I can see that QIC has questioned the cost of the work incurred by Mr C stating that the only 
work required to access the leaking pipe was the removal of a cupboard. P has invoiced Mr 
C for trace and access costs of £1800, which QIC doesnt feel is proportionate to the trace
and access work that it feels was needed.
Ive considered what QIC has said here. But Ps invoice shows that more than the removal 
of a cupboard was required for the trace and access works. Based on the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that the leak couldnt be accessed because of additional pipework and other obstacles located nearby. This is also supported by the photographs of the work 
in progress that Mr C provided to QIC and our service.
Ps invoice clearly outlined that it had to remove a section of a cupboard, remove pipes 
connecting the water softener and cut out a section of a waste pipe servicing the shower 
tray and wash basin to gain access to the mains pipe to locate the source of the leak. And 
P said it further dug out a section of the concrete floor and dismantled a cupboard in order 
to gain access to, cut out and repair the leaking section of the mains pipe. The trace and 
access work was therefore extensive and Im persuaded that the work P has itemised on its 
invoice was necessary and proportionate to trace and access the leak.
It may be that the trace and access would have cost less had QIC appointed one of its 
approved contractors. But that opportunity was lost at the outset of this claim. So, it 
wouldnt be fair to restrict whats recoverable to what it would have cost had an approved 
contractor undertaken the work. In the overall circumstances, I dont think the costs P 
invoiced are excessive considering the extent of work it undertook in order to access the 
leaking pipe.
Our investigator directed QIC to reimburse Mr C for the cost of Ps invoice, subject to him 
confirming that the invoice has been paid. However, they didnt comment on QIC being 
entitled to deduct £750, which is the excess applicable to an escape of water claim. As Ive 
already explained, this is the reason why Im drafting a provisional decision as it gives QIC 
and Mr C the opportunity to respond to the issue of whether an excess should be 
deducted.
In order to resolve this complaint, my provisional view is that QIC should pay for the costs 
of the trace and access work invoiced by P, less any excess that is due under the policy. 
Mr C should provide proof of payment to P to QIC before it makes payment of the claim. 
Like our investigator, I also think QIC should pay simple interest at a rate of 8% from the 
date Mr C paid his invoice to the date of settlement.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Both QIC and Mr C responded to confirm they agreed with my provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. I still think Mr C's complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
already outlined.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, QIC should pay for the costs of the trace and access work 
invoiced by P, less the £750 excess that is due under the policy. Mr C should provide proof 
of payment to P to QIC before it makes payment of the claim. QIC should also pay simple 
interest at a rate of 8% from the date Mr C paid his invoice to the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should resolve this 
complaint in the following way:
Pay the trace and access claim in the sum of £1800 (less the applicable excess)
subject to Mr C providing proof of payment.
Pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on £1800 from the date of payment to
the date of settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QIC Europe Ltd to take off tax from this interest. QIC
Europe Ltd must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it he asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman