DRN-3772127
The complaint
Mrs C complains NewDay Ltd (NewDay) failed to deal with a section 75 claim fairly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, including the additional comments submitted by Mrs 
C for my consideration, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
When something goes wrong with good or services, and the payment was made, in part or 
whole, with credit or debit card, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback scheme or a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) 
says that in certain circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation made by the supplier.
In this case Mrs C purchased a custom made stairlift for her mother costing £4,400. She 
paid £2,150 on her NewDay credit card and the remaining balance of £2,250 on another 
providers debit card.
Mrs C raised a section 75 claim with NewDay for the full amount of the purchase but 
NewDay reviewed the £2,150 transaction and submitted a chargeback based upon the 
goods or services being defective or not as described. This was successful and a credit was 
applied to her account on 10 January 2022. It then advised Mrs C to the other provider to 
raise a chargeback claim for the remaining £2,250. Mrs C confirmed she did so on 8 
February 2022 and that this had been successful.
I appreciate Mrs C is unhappy that NewDay didnt proceed with the section 75 claim, but it 
explained that its policy is attempt a chargeback first to mitigate losses. It has acknowledged 
it could and should have made this clear to you at the beginning and didnt specifically state 
that your section 75 claim had been closed when they started the chargeback and offered 
Mrs C £45 as compensation for this.
Mrs C has said she felt her claim would have been dealt with more swiftly had a section 75 
been raised but I dont agree this is the case and with both providers it seems to me the 
chargeback scheme was raised in a timely manner and both were successful.
I find that NewDay acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint and Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman