DRN-3281129
The complaint
Mr H complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd didnt uphold a free servicing and 
warranty plan and charged him £1,700 when he voluntarily terminated (VTd) his agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I have every sympathy with Mr H but I cannot uphold his complaint. The basis of his 
complaint is that he bought an Alfa car from Alfa and the finance company is part of the Alfa 
group and so they should be treated as one. He was offered a free service/warranty plan 
and FCA should be responsible for any failings in respect of that plan. However, his contract 
was with the dealer which, while authorised by Alfa, is not part of the Alfa group.
So he had a contract with the dealer and he took out finance provided by FCA.  Part of the 
deal was that the manufacturer offered a five-year servicing plan which was provided by 
another company which is part of the Alfa group. This was complimentary and so none of the 
money provided by FCA was paid to either the manufacturer or the warranty/service 
provider. 
Consumer law allows claims to be made against the provider of finance for goods it has 
financed. In this case it didnt finance the free warranty/servicing plan provided by the 
manufacturer so I cannot hold it responsible for any issues Mr H has with it. FCA paid the 
dealer which I presume had paid the manufacturer for the car. As such I cannot hold FCA 
responsible for the failure of the service supplier not to honour the offer due to Mr H not 
meeting its terms and conditions.
When he decided to VT the car FCA wrote to him setting out what would happen and this 
stated he was required to: Pay £1,770.81 This is to satisfy the requirement to pay half of the 
total amount due on your agreement and is payable immediately. I am satisfied that this 
was made sufficiently clear to Mr H that to VT the agreement he needed to have paid half of 
what he owed. This was also stated in the finance agreement as our investigator has 
explained.
FCA has accepted that it sent an incorrect notice of default without making him fully aware of 
the debt.  It has also accepted our investigators recommendation that it remove the default 
from Mr Hs credit files on receipt of the sum due. This has had an impact on Mr Hs credit 
score and he has had his credit card limit reduced, albeit this has since been remedied.  I 
consider the recommendation to be fair and also think the compensation offered by FCA of 
£100 is reasonable.
Putting things right
FCA should remove the default as set out below and compensate Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part in that I direct FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd to remove the default from Mr Hs credit file on receipt of the sum owed. It 
should also pay him £100 compensation if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman