DRN-2007796
The complaint
Mr H complains about a credit card account he holds with MBNA Limited
What happened
On 3 February 2020, Mr Hs credit card statement showed a balance of £352.23. On 10 
February 2020, MBNA received a manual payment of £352 that Mr H made to the account. 
This left a balance on the account of £0.23. On 28 February 2020, MBNA collected a direct 
debit payment of £25  which put the account in credit.
Mr H complained about this to MBNA. He said that it shouldnt have taken a payment of £25 
when the balance on the account was only £0.23. 
MBNA responded to Mr H to say it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that the minimum 
payment due is based on the statement balance  and at the time the statement was 
produced, the minimum amount due to be paid was £25. It said that the minimum payment 
wouldnt be affected by any other credits that are applied to the account after the statement 
is produced. Despite MBNA saying it hadnt done anything wrong, as a gesture of good will, 
it refunded Mr H the interest on his next statement, the £0.23 balance left prior to the 
minimum payment being taken, and it sent back the £25 direct debit payment it collected.
Mr H wasnt happy with this. He feels he should get an apology from MBNA and some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused him. Mr H has 
also provided this service with information about what other lenders would have done. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt think that MBNA had done anything wrong. 
She thought that MBNA had acted in line with its terms and conditions and that it had told Mr 
H on the statement how much it intended to collect by direct debit.
Mr H didnt agree. He thought that MBNA werent acting in line with what other lenders do in 
these situations. Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence to decide what fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
The terms and conditions on Mr Hs account state that:
If you receive a refund or credit to your account after your statement date, you must still pay 
at least the minimum payment that we have asked for. 
So this means that even when a refund or credit is received to the account, MBNA will still 
collect the monthly minimum amount due. 
Ive looked at a copy of Mr Hs statement from February. I can see it says that the balance 
on the account at that time was £352.23. And it states that it would collect £25 by direct debit 
on 28 February 2020. Mr Hs manual payment of £352 was received on 10 February 2020. 
And the direct debit payment of £25 was collected on 28 February 2020.
MBNA calculate the payment due based on the statement balance of the account. Because 
there was a balance on the statement, MBNA calculated that a payment of £25 would be 
collected. 
Based on the terms and conditions of the account, and the fact that MBNA told Mr H how 
much it would collect and when, I cant fairly say that MBNA has done anything wrong.
Mr H has given this service information from other lenders to show what it would have done 
in a similar situation. These both say they would have altered the direct debit amount and 
collected the remaining amount due. But just because other lenders might have done 
something different, it doesnt mean that MBNA has done something wrong. I havent seen 
any information from MBNA that implies that a direct debit payment wouldnt be taken, or 
that a lesser amount would be collected because of the manual payment Mr H made. So I 
dont think Mr H has been mislead in anyway by MBNA. 
MBNA has already returned the direct debit payment to Mr H, it has refunded a small part of 
the February balance and interest from the March statement. Even if I was to say that MBNA 
had something wrong, which Im not, I wouldnt have asked MBNA to do anything more 
anyway. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman