DRN-3157746
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Trade Facts Ltd (trading as Galvan Research and Trading) 
handled his advisory contract for difference (CFD) trading account. He feels the risks were 
misrepresented and hes concerned with the suitability of the advice and the commissions he 
was charged.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, but in summary: 
Galvan first pitched the idea of an advisory CFD account to Mr S in April 2011.
In June 2011, Mr S agreed to open an account. Galvan assessed him as being 
suitable for trading with a medium risk tolerance, so Mr S funded the account with 
£2,500.
Galvan began recommending trades from July 2011 onwards, but by May 2012 Mr S 
had lost around £1,800 so he stopped taking advice.
In August 2020, with the help of a representative Mr S made a complaint about the 
advice hed received  he thought trading was unsuitable for him and that the risks 
and impact of commission wasnt properly explained. 
Galvan considered the complaint but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong and 
instead felt the risks were well explained, so Mr S asked for our help.
Galvan challenged our jurisdiction to help Mr S on the grounds that his complaint had been 
made too late  with reference to the six and three year time frames. But an ombudsman 
considered the point and didnt agree  hed seen notes to show Mr S was unhappy with 
whatd happened at the time which were enough to have been an expression of 
dissatisfaction. Because of this, a complaint had been made in time so a subsequent referral 
to ourselves wasnt time barred. 
Thereafter, one of our investigators had a look at what had happened. Having done so, he 
didnt think CFD trading had been suitable for Mr S. While he acknowledged there was some 
capacity for some loss, he didnt think the risks were something Mr S fully appreciated given 
his knowledge and experience. So he suggested Galvan refund the losses, plus interest. 
Galvan didnt agree, and said, in summary:
The notes they held were outside of their retention period, so they couldnt be sure 
about their accuracy or whether any data was missing. Given this, they felt our 
investigators findings were unfair. 
They felt Mr Ss performance related dissatisfaction in 2012 wouldve been treated as 
a complaint and noted refunds and reduced commission were discussed  but the 
outcome of this was unknown which was another reason our investigators findings 
were unfair.
They felt the complaint now made  about the suitability of the account  ought to be 
time barred. 
They also felt CFD trading was suitable for Mr S given hed been investing for 20 to 
30 years and because hed approached them for a brochure about UK Banks in 
2008.
They shared the CFD brochure Mr S wouldve been sent and noted the risk warnings 
on pages three and ten, as well as the terms of business. 
Our investigator considered what theyd said but wasnt persuaded to change his view. He 
explained the time bar concerns had been addressed by an ombudsman whod issued a 
jurisdiction decision. He said he appreciated the age of the data, but thought the call notes 
would be accurate given they were made at the time and had no reason to be amended. And 
given the detail within the notes, should a refund of losses or commission have been agreed 
he thought it likely it would have been recorded  instead the notes didnt show any further 
contact with Mr S. Although Mr S mightve been able to afford a small loss, this didnt mean 
advising him to trade CFDs was suitable for him. As Galvan didnt agree they ought to 
compensate Mr S, the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I appreciate Galvan remain of the view Mr S brought his complaint too late, this is 
something thats already been considered by an ombudsman who made a decision on our 
jurisdiction. Galvan have offered no new evidence or arguments on this point, so I see no 
reason to make further comment. For this reason, I have focussed my review on the merits 
of Mr Ss complaint. 
As Galvan are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators 
handbook  chapter nine of the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats particularly 
relevant here. It appears that the agreement Mr S had with Galvan was that they would 
advise him on CFDs and he would choose whether or not to proceed with the 
recommendation given. So Galvan needed to make sure recommendations they were 
making were suitable for Mr Ss personal and financial circumstances. To do this, they would 
need to understand things such as his financial situation, investment objectives, attitude to 
risk, and experience of investing. At the time, the relevant rule at COBS 9.2.1 R said:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.And COBS 9.2.2 R said, in part:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Its been nearly 12 years since Mr S opened his account with Galvan so understandably, the 
records from what happened at the time may not be as full as they once were. This said, 
Galvan have been able to share a spreadsheet with us which contains useful data about 
Mr Ss circumstances, his call notes and his trades. We havent been provided with call 
recordings, but this is understandable given the amount of time thats passed. 
Having considered the records Galvan have provided, I can see that at the time of opening 
his account Mr S was aged 57, divorced with one dependent, and employed as supply 
teacher. He was earning just over £26,000 a year, had £5,000 invested and £12,000 in 
savings. His investment experience was noted as investing once a year since the 1980s in 
either bonds or shares, the detail of which wasnt mentioned. His overall risk profile was 
assessed as being medium and it was noted capacity for loss assessed as good due to the 
annual level of trading experience.
Ive thought carefully about what we know of Mr Ss personal and financial circumstances at 
the time but having done so, Im not persuaded it was fair and reasonable for Galvan to have 
concluded that advising him to trade CFDs was suitable. Its unclear as to how Mr S was 
assessed as having a medium attitude towards taking risk, but regardless of this label, I 
dont think Mr Ss financial situation nor his knowledge or experience meant he should have 
been exposed to losing as much money as he did  and I dont say this with hindsight, I think 
it was entirely foreseeable to Galvan that Mr S could go on to lose so much. 
I think it is fair to say Mr S was not on a particularly high income and he was probably 
expecting to retire within ten years. Given this, I cant see Mr S had the capacity or time to 
make up the money he was putting at risk. While an investment of £2,500 mightve been 
affordable for him as it represented 20% of his cash, Galvan needed to consider his 
circumstances and his ability to replenish this amount should it be lost. 
In addition to his circumstances, I cant see he had any experience or knowledge of 
leveraged or derivative based trading. I appreciate Mr S did have some history of making 
investments  seemingly an annual investment into a bond or shares  but I dont agree this 
will necessarily have prepared him for the sort of trading Galvan were advising on. 
I cannot see whether Galvan explored the extent to which Mr Ss experience was broad, 
varying and relevant as COBS 9.2.1 R (2) (a) asked, or whether it was more limited and not 
relevant. While its not clear what Galvan understood Mr Ss investment experience or 
knowledge to have been, given the notes we do have, had it have been anything other than 
mainstream I expect this would have been mentioned. Even if Mr S had experience of taking 
more risk than what a traditionally mainstream investment would have exposed him to, for 
example, trading in shares on the alternative investment market, I still dont think this would 
have prepared him for the impact leverage would have on positions Galvan were advising 
him about. As I said, its not clear as to how Galvan assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk  but it is possible it 
was a credible assessment given it was in relation to 20% of his liquid assets. This said, 
while I wouldnt say that a medium attitude to risk would automatically preclude an investor 
from CFDs, in the circumstances of Mr Ss case I am not persuaded that a medium risk 
approach for Mr S justified Galvans recommendations that followed. Mr Ss attitude to risk 
ought to have been viewed in the context of his investment background and financial 
circumstances, both of which appeared to have been limited. 
Galvan say they told Mr S about the risks of CFD trading by way of a script used when 
opening an account, their brochure and their terms of business which pointed him to the risk 
warning notice. But Im not persuaded that these standardised risk warnings mean the 
advice Galvan went on to give was suitable. The bar for giving Mr S advice to trade was a 
higher one than the bar set to simply open the account on an execution-only basis. Here, it 
wasnt enough to tell Mr S of the risks  Galvan had to assess whether those risks were 
ones Mr S had the capacity and inclination to take, as part of achieving his investment 
objectives. But as we have seen, Mr S wasnt in the position to withstand total losses and 
didnt have the experience or knowledge to have foreseen and understood the risks 
involved. So while warnings might have been given, these did not absolve Galvan of their 
responsibility to make suitable recommendations. 
I cant see Mr S was keen on investing or trading from the outset  I see from the first two 
calls in April 2011 Galvans member of staff noted not very interested but got a brochure out 
you never know lol a bit of practice and ten days later, client wants to be left to do it in his 
own time a bit moody probably a stroker. I appreciate Galvans view will be that Mr S 
approached them for one of their brochures and so they didnt cold call him or pressure him 
into investing. But that had been three years earlier, and I dont think its clear that in 2011 
Mr S was pro-actively looking to invest his money, let alone interested in trading CFDs. 
Looking at the call notes some months into the relationship, I can see Mr S lost money on 
the first six trades and expressed his disappointment. Galvans member of staff noted 
After having a long chat and ensuring [Mr S] knows that he has to risk something to 
reward himself he is going to continue. Have agreed to cut comm to 0.2%. So Galvan 
persuaded and incentivised Mr S to continue taking advice to trade  something which at 
that point was clear he wasnt comfortable with  in products which were outside of his risk 
tolerance and that he had previously had no experience of. 
From the spreadsheet I can see Galvan noted Mr S having a limited activity account due to 
his attitude to risk being medium, with his exposure seemingly set to only risk half of his 
liquid assets. But I dont think this changes things. While this might have been a feature of 
the third-party platform, it doesnt appear that a limited activity account really meant there 
was some sort of protection from the inherent risks of CFD trading  there was still the 
chance that Mr S could lose most of his money, and I dont think this is something hed have 
envisaged when agreeing his attitude to risk was medium. So I cant see that this made 
otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. 
So from everything Ive seen, I dont think it was suitable for Mr S to take advice on trading 
CFDs. I cant see it was something he intended on doing when he first met Galvan and I 
think it was clear from his reaction to losing money during the relationship that the outcome 
was something he was both surprised and unhappy with. Given his lack of experience and 
attitude to risk, I dont think it was fair or reasonable of Galvan to have concluded this sort of 
trading was suitable for Mr S. So Galvan needs to do something to put things right. I cant 
see they took any remedial action in 2012, so Ive thought about what they should do now.Putting things right
When we look to put things right, we try to put the consumer in the position they would have 
been in but for the unsuitable advice. Ive thought carefully about this, but as Ive said above, 
I dont consider it was clear that when the relationship began Mr S had been pro-actively 
seeking an investment opportunity. I appreciate he requested a brochure from Galvan, but 
this was three years prior and given the notes from the first calls I think that if he had been 
told that CFD trading wasnt suitable for him, he wouldnt have invested at all. 
If this had happened, we cant be sure whether Mr S would have then looked elsewhere for a 
different sort of investment opportunity. I note that at the time, he had around a third of his 
liquid assets invested. But given that our understanding of his investment strategy was to 
invest some money each year since the 1980s, Ive not seen anything to persuade me he 
was looking to otherwise deviate from his usual course of action and invest the £2,500 in 
something else. 
Given Im not sufficiently persuaded Mr S would have invested his money differently, I think 
the fairest way of compensating him is to do as our investigator asked and to direct Trade 
Facts Ltd to compensate him for the losses he incurred and award him 8% simple interest on 
this sum  in line with our services usual approach  from the date he funded his account, 
until the date of settlement, as this is the length of time he has been deprived of this money. 
If Trade Facts Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Trade Facts Ltd must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman