DRN-2149785
The complaint
Mr G has a motor insurance policy through Age UK Enterprises Limited. He complains about 
its compliance with data protection regulations. 
What happened
Mr G has been insured through Age UK for several years. In 2019 he complained to the 
Information Commissioners office (the ICO) about it using an opt-out preference for 
consumers who didnt want to get marketing materials through the post. The ICO upheld his 
complaint, and Age UK paid Mr G £100 compensation. He also complained to this service, 
and we said its offer was fair and reasonable. 
When Mr G applied for a motor policy online through Age UK again in 2020, the opt-out was 
still in place. He complained to the ICO and it said if Age UK was going to obtain consent for 
marketing, it had to be done in a way that was compliant with data protection regulations. It 
said it had contacted Age UK to ask it to change its opt-out preference for postal marketing.
Mr G complained to us again. He said Age UKs failure to comply with data protection laws 
had caused him further distress and inconvenience  and that hadnt apologised properly or 
compensated him. The investigator who dealt with Mr Gs complaint in 2019 reviewed his 
new complaint. He said we couldnt ask businesses to change their processes, as we arent 
a regulator. He noted that Mr G had found that as one change hadnt been made, he had to 
opt-out of receiving postal marketing. He said Age UK had apologised to Mr G, but that it 
had challenged the ICOs 2020 findings. He didnt think Age UK had acted unreasonably.  
Mr G said again that Age UK hadnt given him a meaningful apology, an assurance of future 
compliance, or an explanation for its refusal to comply with the regulations. Mr G said had it 
done so, he may not have had to complain to us. He also said that by having opt-ins to be 
ticked online for other preferences - but an opt-out for postal marketing information, Age UK 
had created confusion for elderly consumers.
 
Mr G later said Age UK hadnt replied to an email he sent it asking for an unreserved 
apology and £100 compensation (the sum it had offered the previous year). So hed had to 
complain to us, which caused him further distress and inconvenience. He also queried why 
the investigator hadnt proposed compensation in 2020. The investigator pointed out that in 
2019, Age UK had made an offer of £100 compensation. He said he wouldnt have proposed 
that sum, but as Mr G had accepted Age UKs offer, his complaint to us was resolved in that 
way. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G doesnt think Age UK has apologised properly to him. The apology made on behalf of 
Age UK was as follows: I am sorry for any upset this matter is causing you. In my opinion, 
that apology was reasonable, especially as Age UK didnt think it had done anything wrong 
when the apology was given. 
Mr G has expressed his strong feelings about the impact he thinks Age UKs failure to have 
an opt-in to receive marketing materials sent through the post will have had on some older 
people. He thinks it may have confused and misled them. Mr G may be right, but I can only 
consider the impact of Age UKs actions on Mr G as part of this complaint. I dont think hes 
shown that he was confused or misled. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for the investigator to conclude that Mr G wasnt put to 
much trouble in having to tick the opt-out box to avoid getting marketing material through the 
post. I think the inconvenience caused by that is likely to have been minimal. I think Mr G 
was annoyed and disappointed, as he thought Age-UK had agreed to abide by the advice it 
got from the ICO previously. In his view, it hadnt done that, and he thought it had also failed 
to explain why that was the case when he raised the issue. 
I think Age UK tried to explain its position to Mr G in a detailed letter from its data protection 
officer in May 2020. In its view, it had made suitable changes and wasnt in breach of data 
protection regulations. The ICO indicated in May 2020 that it would be asking Age UK to 
provide an opt-in box for all preferences, including postal marketing. Since then, it has been 
considering Age UKs representations on the issue. We checked recently, but it still hadnt 
reached a conclusion. We cant require Age UK to change its processes. 
From what Mr G has said, his disability makes it difficult for him to communicate with Age 
UK, this service and the ICO, due in part to his difficulty with typing. I have every sympathy 
with Mr G. I understand that it must be much harder for him to make a complaint than it 
would be for an average consumer. And I accept that Mr G faced some upset and some 
inconvenience because he felt he had to complain again in 2020 about Age UKs practice 
and its compliance with data protection rules.
 
In order for me to require Age UK to pay Mr G compensation, Id have to be sure that it had 
done something substantially wrong and that its actions had affected Mr G more than 
minimally. Having seen Age UKs explanation for not changing one of the opt-out boxes, I 
cant say it has done anything substantially wrong. It seems to have used the ICOs advice 
and made the changes it thought were appropriate. The ICO will make a finding on that 
issue in due course. Even if I were to conclude that Age UK had acted unreasonably, I dont 
think Mr G has shown that the impact on him was such that compensation should be paid. 
I know Mr G will disagree with my view, but based on the information currently available to 
me, I cant uphold his complaint. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman