DRN-3855652
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he has received from ITI Capital Limited (ITI). He 
couldnt access his account to trade or withdraw cash in a timely manner and which caused 
him to open an account with another platform and instruct that his account be transferred. 
He experienced significant delays and inconvenience during the transfer process.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Hs account (ending number 8166), which he held with a previous firm that 
had gone into administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr H has told us he was concerned 
as the shares on his account with ITI did not match up with the shares that had been 
transferred to ITI by the administrator of the previous firm.
In September 2020 Mr H instructed the transfer of his account away from ITI to another 
platform provider who I shall refer to as Company B in my decision.
In October 2020 Mr H completed Company Bs Share Transfer Form for all but one of his 
shareholdings  which I shall refer to as Share A. Mr H experienced delays during the 
transfer of his shares and also with a cash withdrawal which he told us caused him 
considerable worry and impacted on his wellbeing.
At the time of bringing his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in February 2021 Mr H 
didnt have any shares showing on his account but had managed to withdraw some cash. 
And for Share A, Mr H wanted to know from ITI how he could obtain the share certificate for 
this holding.
In a further attempt to get his shares transferred, in February 2022 Mr H completed a second 
share transfer form for Company B. Mr H told us on 18 March 2022 that he had checked his 
account with Company B and the five shareholdings had been received.
Mr H was told by ITI that he couldnt obtain a share certificate for his shareholding of Share 
A as it had been removed from the company register. However, Mr Hs understanding was 
that ITI had been given a physical share certificate for the holding when his portfolio was 
transferred to ITI by the administrator of the previous business.
ITI didnt provide a final response to Mr Hs complaint or its business file for our investigator 
to consider the complaint but to put the matter right it did offer £250 plus £38 interest for lost 
opportunity in the delays in processing his cash withdrawal. Our investigator put this offer to 
Mr H, but Mr H thought £500 would be fairer for the poor service and his lost opportunities to 
trade so he didnt accept it. Mr H said he had been in touch with ITI about his holding in 
Share A but hadnt heard back.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. He said;
He provided a background to the problems and delays Mr H had experienced with 
initially accessing his account with ITI, plus his inability to trade on his account until 
his shares were eventually transferred to Company B and the cash withdrawal 
completed albeit for around £200 less than Mr H requested.
Mr H had experienced 18 months of poor service and had no access to his shares or 
cash. He told us he was a regular trader and hadnt been able to carry out any 
transactions.
ITI had by this time increased its offer for the poor service to £300 but the 
investigator thought this should be increased to £500.
Mr H confirmed he had received no correspondence from ITI and still hadnt been able to 
recover his share certificate for Share A.
ITI didnt respond to the investigator. 
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision that I thought it should be upheld but I asked both parties to give me 
anything they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I should make clear that I havent received anything from ITI to assist me in my 
consideration of this complaint. The only information or evidence I have received is 
from Mr H. If ITI does wish to provide anything for my further consideration, then it 
should do so as outlined above.
When the evidence or testimony surrounding a complaint is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in 
other words, means I base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The transfer of Mr Hs shareholdings
Mr H has provided us with the schedule of shares provided by the administrator of 
the previous company that were showing on his account in August 2019 and which 
were to be transferred to ITI. There were seven shareholdings listed.
I understand from Mr H that he was able to sell one of those while his account was 
with ITI and one of his six remaining shareholdings  Share A  wasnt showing on 
his ITI account and which I refer to below. Mr H completed Company Bs share 
transfer form on 10 October 2020 for the five holdings that were showing and again 
in February 2022 which Mr H told us resulted in a successful transfer.
Overall, the transfer of five of the shareholdings showing on Mr Hs account took from 
October 2020 to March 2022 to complete  18 months  which is significantly longer 
than a transfer should take to complete. Because of this this, I think Mr H should be 
compensated for the significant delays he experienced in the transfer of his five 
shareholdings and the inconvenience he suffered in having to chase for its 
completion.
Share A
Mr H told us Share A wasnt showing on his account. I see from an email 
conversation that Mr H chased ITI for Share As missing shareholding in December 2021 and was told that the shares were removed from the share registrar and as a 
result were removed from client accounts.
In March 2022 Mr H chased ITI again for the missing Share A holding and was told 
the shares were removed from the share registrar and as a result were removed 
from clients accounts. However, if the registrar presents the position again, they will 
be positioned back onto the client accounts.
Mr H has told us that ITI was given a physical share certificate for the holding and he 
wants to hold a physical share certificate.
From what ITI has told Mr H it has been in touch with the registrar of Share A who 
confirmed that it had been removed from its register. But Mr H wants a physical 
share certificate for this holding. So, in order to resolve Mr Hs request  or ascertain 
whether one can be produced  ITI should contact the registrar, or any other relevant 
party, and request for the production of a share certificate for Mr H if possible or it 
should provide evidence for Mr H that it has made such a request.
If a certificate can be produced, and incurs a cost, then Mr H will need to bear the 
cost of that but ITI should let him know in advance how much it will cost to make sure 
he still wants to proceed.
The transfer of the cash
Mr H emailed his cash withdrawal request of £13,334.80, bank account details and 
proof of ID to ITI on 30 September 2020. As far as I am able to tell from the account 
screenshots Mr H has given us, the sum of £13,159.82 was transferred out of Mr Hs 
account on 21 October 2020  a delay of three weeks which caused Mr H upset.
And there is a difference of £174.98 from his original request so ITI should provide 
Mr H with a statement of account for the period it was with ITI so that he can identify 
the reason for the reduced payment of £13,159.82 compared to his withdrawal 
request of £13,334.80. If any cash does remain on Mr Hs account, it should be 
transferred to him immediately.
The service Mr H received from ITI
It is clear from Mr Hs submissions that Mr Hs experience with ITI has been a poor 
one. Mr H told us that he was a frequent trader but wasnt able to trade as he would 
have liked. As I understand it, he was able to place one trade to sell one of his 
shareholdings by phone. But its clear he was frustrated by the process and which he 
told us incurred a trading fee that did not conform with the agreement of the transfer 
to ITI. However, I havent been given anything to demonstrate that Mr H wasnt able 
to place a trade that he wanted to and suffered a loss as a result.
Mr H experienced significant frustration in his attempts to have his shareholdings 
transferred despite his best efforts. He has told us he couldnt trade, and the cash 
withdrawal took longer than it should have done.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts 
and investments will inevitably have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to 
deal with new customers and increased requests.
Putting the matter rightThat being said, its clear Mr H feels stressed and inconvenienced by the whole affair 
and hasnt reached a satisfactory outcome regarding his request for a share 
certificate for Share A.
Clearly, it must have been very frustrating for the delays Mr H experienced and 
bearing in mind the trouble Mr H has been caused and the very significant delays he 
experienced in transferring his shares as well as the delay in receiving his requested 
cash, plus the lack of satisfactory outcome about his share certificate, I think an 
award of £500 as recommended by the investigator to be a fairer reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H.
Overall I said ITI should pay Mr H £500 for the distress and inconvenience he experience, 
provide him with a statement of his account while it was with ITI and should endeavour to 
provide a share certificate for Mr H in Share A and if that wasnt possible, it should provide 
evidence to Mr H that it had attempted to do so. 
Mr H nor ITI responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. And ITI needs to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
Overall, ITI should;
Pay Mr H £500 for the distress and inconvenience Mr H has experienced.
Provide Mr H with a statement of his account while it was with ITI.
ITI should endeavour to provide a physical share certificate for Mr H in Share A and if 
that is not possible, it should provide evidence for Mr H that it has attempted to do so.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Mr H the sum above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mr H 
simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put 
the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman