DRN-2451090
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G say they were mis-sold a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy.
St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has now taken responsibility for this complaint. 
So, to make things easier, Ill refer to St Andrews in my decision.
What happened
In May 1999, Mrs G and Mr G arranged a loan. A couple of months later, there was then a 
phone call between the parties to discuss a PPI policy to cover their repayments on the loan. 
Mrs G and Mr G think St Andrews mis-sold the policy to them. They say the terms of the 
insurance policy were never explained to them. They add that they were self employed and 
so would have been restricted from claiming benefit if they needed it, due to terms given 
around self employed in the policy. They also say they were unaware of the policy being 
added to their loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, because he didnt think St Andrews had       
mis-sold the policy. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints on our website. Ive used this approach in       
Mrs G and Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint and I will explain why. 
Mrs G and Mr G say they were unaware of the PPI policy being added, so I looked into this. 
St Andrews havent been able to provide a call recording or a sales script from the date of 
sale. In addition, Mrs G and Mr G have not been detailed in their recollections of the sale 
and so it has been difficult for me to understand what happened. But I can see that the 
phone call would have happened at a date after the loan application was completed and so I 
think that was an indication that it was a separate product from the loan. On balance, based 
on what I know of how these policies were sold on the phone at that time and without any 
other evidence to support what Mrs G and Mr G have said, I think its more likely than not 
they were given a choice to have the policy on the phone and they agreed to it. 
It is not clear to me who the policy covered, whether it was in either Mrs G or Mr Gs name or 
both. So, I have proceeded that it was in joint names so that I can consider both Mrs G and 
Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale.
As with similar sales of this policy that happened at around that time, I think that St Andrews 
advised Mrs G and Mr G to buy it rather than just giving them information and letting them 
make their own mind up. So, it had to make sure the policy was right for them. And based on 
what they have told us about their circumstances, sick pay, savings, health and job at the 
time I think it was suitable for them. 
Even though Mrs G and Mr G told us they had up to 3 months worth of savings, the policy 
could pay out on top of these provisions and for longer. So I think they would have found 
some value in having this cover. And they dont seem to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover at least none that would make the policy unsuitable for 
them.
Mrs G and Mr G have said they were both self employed at the time of sale and so the policy 
was unsuitable for them as they would have been restricted from claiming on all of the things 
they would be expected to on the policy. But after looking at the policy terms, I think the 
terms for self employment are not restrictive or onerous. They couldve claimed benefit if 
needed. So, I dont think these terms made the policy unsuitable for them.
All of this means that I dont think St Andrews mis-sold this policy to Mrs G and Mr G. I dont 
think it would be fair to tell St Andrews to give them back what they paid for it. I know this will 
be a disappointment for Mrs G and Mr G but I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman