DRN-3540192
The complaint
Mr P complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans 
irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr P took out three loans with Likely Loans as follows: 
Date loan 
startedLoan amount Term Monthly  
repayment*Loan status
August 2016 £1,000 30 months 61.51 Repaid with 
loan 2
May 2018 £1,503.36 36 months 85.28 Paid May 
2021
July 2021 £2,000 24 months £151.92 Outstanding
Mr P told us that his complaint is about loans 2 and 3. He doesnt feel that Likely Loans did 
proper checks before providing the second loan to him and had it done so, he said it 
wouldve seen multiple payday loans which should have prompted it to make more enquiries. 
He said that Likely Loans increased his total borrowing and added to his money problems. 
Our adjudicator said he didnt think that the checks Likely Loans did had thrown up any signs 
that the lending was unsustainable and that the information Mr P provided to him didnt 
suggest he was having money problems at the time. He said it looked like Mr P shouldve 
had enough disposable income to pay the loans. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint so it came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Likely Loans provided Mr P with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Likely Loans was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr P before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to do. Generally, we think its reasonable for a 
lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it 
does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might 
think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent 
was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what this all means 
for Mr Ps complaint. 
As Mr P isnt complaining about loan 1, Im just considering the second and third loans. 
Loan 2
Mr P applied for loan 2 before hed finished paying for loan 1 and he took out a top up loan 
of a further £1,000. But I dont think this was enough of a reason for Likely Loans to think 
that Mr P was in financial difficulty or that it shouldnt have provided this loan if it otherwise 
looked affordable for him. Hed given no sign to Likely Loans that hed had any payment 
problems on loan 1 and the loan account shows he made the monthly instalments in full and 
on time. 
Likely Loans asked Mr P about his income and expenditure and recorded Mr Ps net pay 
was at least £1,505 per month. It also relied on statistical information to compare Mr Ps 
income and expenditure against national data showing typical spending for someone in the 
same situation so that it could be satisfied that the figures it relied on were realistic. Likely 
Loans understood that Mr Ps usual housing costs and living expenses were around £822. 
Likely Loans also carried credit checks  it doesnt store the actual credit data provided by a 
credit reference agency at the time but told us it was processed automatically and used to 
help it assess the lending application. Likely Loans told us that it returned information which 
showed that at the time of lending Mr P was paying out around £74 for his existing credit 
commitments. 
A more recent credit report taken out when Mr P complained to Likely Loans shows some 
information dating back to the time loan 2 was taken out so I've looked carefully through this 
to see what information Likely Loans might have seen at the time. Likely Loans could 
probably have seen that he had used payday lenders, but as far as I can see, Mr Ps credit 
report wouldve shown his accounts were well managed and his outstanding credit at the 
time wasnt excessive or problematic for him.  It wouldnt be unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if a loan 
otherwise looks affordable. 
And I think its worth mentioning that when a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit 
search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not 
all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may 
explain any differences between what I think Likely Loans wouldve seen and what Mr P 
feels his record ought to have shown. 
After making allowance for everything Mr P had to pay for, including paying for the existing 
debt revealed by its credit checks, Likely Loans felt that the amount of disposable income he 
had available was ample to cover the monthly repayments on its loan. It worked out that 
after meeting his outgoings and paying for this loan, he should still have more than £350 left 
to cover other spending. So, Likely Loans felt that the loan was affordable for Mr P - and 
based on everything I've seen, I think it made a fair and reasonable lending decision when it 
provided loan 2. I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr P provided or the 
other information Likely Loans had recorded, which meant that Likely Loans shouldve taken 
more steps to check the information Mr P had declared. It was early in the lending 
relationship, all the indications were that the loan looked affordable and I think the checks 
were enough for Likely Loans to agree to lend. 
So I dont plan to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
I can see that Mr P took out the third loan a couple of months after paying loan 2  and he 
borrowed a larger loan this time. But I dont think there was any reason this shouldve made 
Likely Loans think that Mr P was becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with being 
over stretched financially.
Likely Loans followed the same loan application process and asked Mr P to update the 
information he provided about his finances each time he applied for a new loan. I think its 
fair to take into account that loan 3 still looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr P. His pay 
was noted as £2,215. 
On top of his housing costs (£650), living expenses (£632) and the amount Likely Loans 
allowed for his existing credit commitments (£473), it also built into its calculations an extra 
amount (£175) as a buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional 
expenses. Its affordability assessment showed that on these figures, Mr P shouldve had 
around £132 spare cash each month after paying for everything  including his new loan. 
Mr P hadnt shown Likely Loans any signs that he had found it hard to pay for his borrowing 
and the figures hed declared, and the information Likely Loans collected, seem to support 
Likely Loans lending decision.It doesnt look to me like there was enough in the credit check information that Likely Loans 
couldve seen that I think wouldve made it realise that he couldnt afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way. And I think it was too soon for Likely Loans reasonably to be able to identify 
any particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr P was over-reliant on this type 
of borrowing. 
It looks like Mr P told Likely Loans that the loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other 
words, he would use the loan to repay other debt. So I think this wouldve seemed a 
plausible reason to borrow. And, in these circumstances, Likely Loans was reasonably 
entitled to take a view that this suggested Mr P was borrowing specifically to help him 
manage his finances more responsibly  and it looked like he ought to be able to afford to do 
that on the figures it worked out. 
Despite what Mr  P has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that Likely Loans had recorded for Mr P, or anything else that it 
shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Likely Loans think this loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable for Mr P when he took it out.  So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about loan 3.
I've taken into account that Mr P feels that Likely Loans didn't do all the checks he thinks it 
shouldve done before agreeing to lend to him. But its reasonable to expect that Likely 
Loans couldve only decided Mr Ps lending applications based on the information it should 
reasonably have had available at the time. 
Im sorry that Mr P has found repaying all his borrowing difficult. And I accept that Mr Ps 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the 
other information Likely Loans obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Likely Loans did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr P. 
At this stage of the lending relationship, and given these loan amounts, I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required Likely Loans to ask Mr P to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances. 
So I dont think Likely Loans did anything wrong when it made its lending decisions for 
loans 2 and 3 based on the information it had at the time  without for instance asking to see 
Mr Ps bank statements or making other more in-depth enquiries. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr P but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. And if Mr P would like 
help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his situation generally, theres 
more information about how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  or we 
can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have received no new information from either party and the deadline for responses has 
now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman