DRN-2070190
The complaint
Miss B and Mr T complain about Charter Court Financial Services Limiteds (trading as 
Precise Mortgages (Precise)) decision to decline their mortgage due to changes to their 
income following the coronavirus pandemic. 
What happened
Miss B and Mr T submitted a mortgage application to Precise via a mortgage broker in early 
March 2020. Precise Mortgages reviewed the application and were satisfied it was 
affordable based on Miss B and Mr Ts income. So, it instructed a valuation of the property.
In late March, the UK went into lockdown following the Coronavirus pandemic. As valuations 
were unable to take place at this time, Precise emailed Miss B and Mr Ts broker to confirm 
the application had been put on hold. 
Miss B and Mr T both worked for the same company in the hospitality industry. They were 
put onto the government furlough scheme which meant their income was reduced. Precise 
reviewed the application based on the reduced income and was satisfied the mortgage was 
still affordable. However, when the furlough scheme was extended, and it was clear the 
lockdown would likely continue, Precise made the decision not to accept mortgage 
applications where the borrowers were on furlough income. It told Miss B and Mr Ts broker 
this and explained once they were back at work on full pay, they would be able to reapply.
In early June, Miss B contacted Precise as she hadnt heard anything. It explained it had 
declined the application and informed her broker of this. Miss B complained about this 
decision.
Precise did accept that it might have given Miss B confusing information during their 
discussion in June. But it said it had kept their broker updated with the status of the 
mortgage application, and the valuation fee had been refunded. It said it had a duty to lend 
responsibly and wasnt comfortable agreeing to the application in these uncertain times 
whilst both borrowers were furloughed.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B and Mr T brought the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into things, but didnt think Precise had done anything wrong. She didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Precise to review its lending criteria in light of the pandemic. 
And was satisfied Precise was entitled to decline the application for the reasons it had.
Miss B and Mr T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
So its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss B and Mr T feel so strongly about this. They are risking losing the 
house they wish to buy, and I have a lot of sympathy for them. They feel they are being 
penalised because they work for the same company and in the same industry. They say 
there is always a chance of a company going bust and Precise knew they worked for the 
same company when they initially applied for the mortgage. However, from what Ive seen, I 
dont think Precise has declined their application at this stage due to them both working for 
the same company. Its because they were both furloughed following the UK wide lockdown. 
This meant a reduction in their income and uncertainty as to when they would return to work, 
and whether the government would continue to pay their wages or whether their income 
would reduce further.
Lenders are generally allowed to assess their mortgage applications in line with the level of 
risk they are willing to accept at a given time. And this often changes in times of uncertainty. 
Precise has explained that, following the government furlough scheme being extended, it 
wasnt willing to lend to anyone with a furloughed income because of uncertainty of when 
this scheme may end and whether people would be able to go back to work following the 
scheme ending. I dont think this is unreasonable or unfair. It hadnt made a formal mortgage 
offer to Miss B and Mr T. And before an offer is issued, there is always a risk an application 
may be declined. Precise has refunded the valuation fee which I think it was right to do. But 
there is no obligation for it to proceed with issuing a mortgage offer when a case doesnt 
meet the current lending criteria, even if it did meet the previous criteria. Miss B and Mr T 
hadnt paid any other costs to Precise.
Miss B and Mr T have said that there have been delays in Precise responding to them. Ive 
looked through the notes provided by Precise. Whilst they havent always responded 
immediately, I dont think there have been any unreasonable delays. It was after all difficult 
times for everyone during the lockdown with many companies working from home with 
reduced levels of staff. And all updates have been provided directly to their mortgage broker. 
If Miss B and Mr T believe these updates havent been forwarded promptly, they would need 
to take this issue up with their broker.
Precise did acknowledge there was an instance where its underwriter didnt update its 
contact notes, so Miss B and Mr T werent immediately informed that the application 
remained declined. It quickly rectified this and has since apologised. I dont think it needs to 
do anything further in this regard.
The easing of the UK lockdown has progressed since Miss B and Mr T made their complaint 
and more and more people are going back to work. The industry which they work in has 
reopened now and I understand both of them are back at work now. The government 
furlough scheme is also due to end. With this in mind, Precise has said it is willing to 
consider the application again once Miss B and Mr T are back at work and on full pay. If this 
is now the case, Miss B and Mr T should contact their broker to progress the application 
further. Although, this application of course will still be subject to underwriting on Precises 
current lending criteria.
 
My final decision
Whilst I have considerable sympathy for Miss B and Mr T, Im satisfied Charter Court 
Financial Services Limited was entitled to decline their mortgage application. So I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 Rob Deadman
Ombudsman