DRN-3607644
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt cancel his debit card correctly, which led to 
payments being made he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr T holds a current account with Barclays. In July 2020 the bank let Mr T know they 
believed his debit card (Card 1) had been compromised. They issued a replacement card 
(Card 2).
In December 2020 Mr T noticed four transactions leave his account which he didnt 
authorise. He contacted Barclays, who advised him to cancel Card 2 in the Barclays app. He 
did so, and a new card (Card 3) was issued. However, on investigation Barclays discovered 
that the fraudulent transactions had been made using the details of Card 1. They refunded 
the transactions in dispute. 
Mt T complained to Barclays, saying hed been left without access to his funds over the 
Christmas period. He wanted to know why Card 1 hadnt been cancelled. He was also 
unhappy with the service Barclays had provided. Barclays responded to say they accepted 
the service he received wasnt appropriate. They apologised for the level of service and 
offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience.
Unhappy with this Mr T brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what happened and agreed Barclays hadnt been reasonable. But they felt they had 
done enough to put things right. They explained that the payments were made under a 
continuous payment agreement, which allows merchants to take payments using card 
details previously entered even if that card was cancelled. But they felt Barclays had done 
the right thing by refunding the transactions in good time.
The investigator considered whether more compensation should be offered. But they felt that 
there while Mr T didnt have access to a debit card for a short period, he could have taken 
other steps such as transferring funds to a relative if he needed them. Overall, they felt the 
£100 offered by Barclays was fair. Mr T disagreed, saying Barclays have a duty of care with 
his money. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have accepted they didnt provide Mr T with the expected level of service, and he 
has a right to feel disappointed with how his account has been handled. 
Having reviewed the relevant card scheme guidelines, Im satisfied that the explanation of 
how this came to be is down to the payment being set up as continuous or recurring 
payments. This is generally for people to ensure regular and ongoing payments are made, if 
they have to cancel or replace their card for whatever reason. But in this case, its clear that 
this has instead been exploited by a fraudster. 
From what Ive seen Barclays could have prevented this by treating Card 1 as lost or stolen. 
This would have been a reasonable action considering Barclays had concerns that the card 
had been compromised. Im satisfied that by not doing this Barclays havent taken due care 
with his account and have treated him unreasonably.
The second error made by Barclays is by telling Mr T to cancel Card 2 in the app. While its 
not unusual for cards to be cancelled when fraud it reported, in this case Barclays could 
have noticed sooner which card details had been used. This would have prevented Mr T 
unnecessarily cancelling Card 2 and being left without use of a card until Card 3 arrived. Im 
satisfied the first error led to a financial loss to Mr T, and the second led to a degree of 
distress and inconvenience. Barclays havent treated Mr T fairly, and its right they offer 
compensation to him to reflect his.
When I consider the impact on Mr T, I note that Barclays refunded the disputed transactions 
in a reasonable timeframe. While Mr T was left without use of a debit card, this was for a 
limited time  based on the first usage of Card 3, this was just under a week. Barclays did 
offer alternatives, such as withdrawing money in branch. But given the context of the 
pandemic when many places would not accept cash; and also, the time of year when many 
branches were shut for Christmas, I dont see this as the most reasonable alternative. But 
there may have been other alternatives for Mr T to mitigate this, such as arranging for 
money to be transferred to a trusted friend or relative. 
Having reviewed the complaint notes and communication between both parties, I satisfied 
Barclays investigated Mr Ts concerns and issued their response in a reasonable amount of 
time. But it would have been fairer to Mr T to provide a more thorough and detailed 
explanation of what happened in the final response letter. Taking all this into account, I 
consider the £100 offered by Barclays to be a fair reflection of the impact of their errors, and 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr T £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman