DRN-4063967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the administration of one of their buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage accounts held with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). Mr and Mrs G are 
unhappy at the length of time taken to secure a new interest rate product. They had chosen 
a rate of 3.14%, but because of delays and rises in interest rates, they ended up with a rate 
of 3.74%.
Mr and Mrs G have also complained about difficulty in contacting TMW, and that they had to 
chase TMW for a response to their complaint.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs G want TMW to switch their mortgage to the 3.14% rate.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs G being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have a BTL mortgage with TMW. In the summer of 2022 their interest rate 
product was about to expire. However, they werent able to select a new product online. This 
is because TMW had received a letter from the local authority (LA) in 2019 saying that the 
property was being used as a House of Multiple Occupation (HMO), which was in breach of 
the mortgage conditions. 
Mr and Mrs G said this wasnt the case, but TMW needed a copy of the tenancy agreement, 
which was received on 20 June 2022. This wasnt reviewed until 1 August 2022, at which 
time TMW noticed that there was a page missing. Once this was received, TMW agreed to 
back-date the new interest rate product of 3.78% to 1 September 2022. TMW also paid 
compensation of £175 for inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with this. They brought their complaint to our service. 
Mr and Mrs G said that between 23 May 2022 and 15 June 2022 neither they nor their 
broker had been able to get through to TMW on the phone, as a result of which they lost out 
on a lower interest rate product. They also said that the property wasnt being used as a 
HMO, and that if TMW had asked about this in 2019, they would have been able to clarify 
that they werent in breach of the mortgage conditions. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. He noted that on 15 June 2022 TMW had told 
Mr and Mrs G that it would take five days to assess their paperwork. As a result, the 
investigator thought TMW could have dealt with it in time for a new rate to be applied from 
July 2022 onwards. He asked TMW to backdate the mortgage, putting it on a lower rate than 
3.74% if one had been available. The investigator thought the compensation offered by 
TMW for distress and inconvenience was fair (although he incorrectly said this was £125, 
rather than the £175 TMW had actually paid).
TMW confirmed that the five-year 3.74% rate was the lowest available in July 2022 and 
agreed to backdate this to 1 July 2022.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr G, 
who has dealt with the complaint throughout, has made a number of points, which I 
summarise below:
he expects the standards that the Financial Ombudsman Service would be imposing 
upon a mortgage lender would be significantly higher than a buy to let lender. A 
mortgage lender is regulated, professional and will have high levels of requirements 
placed upon them by the various supervisory authorities;
he has reiterated his previous points about not being in breach of the mortgage because 
the property was not being used as a HMO; 
TMW never showed him the letter it had received from the LA, nor referred to any 
specific clause prohibiting the use of the property as a HMO;
TMW should stress test its systems so it is able to answer the telephone at busy times;
he provided the information TMW wanted by 20 June 2022, and so the five-day turn 
around should have taken it to 27 June 2022;
he doesnt have any records of calls he tried to make to TMW between 23 May 2022 and 
15 June 2022.
he feels it would be sensible to split the difference for this period, being 4 June 2022, 
assuming a four-day timescale for TMW to be in receipt of the paperwork and five 
working days from then, the end date would be 15 June 2022;
therefore he would have been able to obtain the lower interest rate of 3.14% which 
should now be put in place to run from 1 June 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr G has said about the standards he believes the Financial Ombudsman 
Service should impose on TMW. However, we arent a regulator and have no power to 
supervise or police TMW. In any event, this is a BTL mortgage and so the regulations that 
apply to residential mortgages are not applicable here, even where the lender itself is 
regulated.
I note that the Special Conditions attached to the mortgage offer dated 27 April 2017 state 
that the property must not be subject to licensing requirements of the Housing Act 2004 for 
HMOs. In addition, Clause 31 of the Mortgage Terms and Conditions state that the property 
must only be let on a single Assured Shorthold Tenancy and that HMOs are not acceptable. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Mr and Mrs G were never told of this. As BTL landlords its 
up to Mr and Mrs G to ensure they are familiar with the terms and conditions of their BTL 
mortgage. TMW isnt under any obligation to offer Mr and Mrs G advice about this.Ive also seen the letter and documentation provided from the LA, which shows that an 
application was made by Mr G for a HMO Licence. (I understand Mr G has now also 
received a copy of this.) Although Mr G says the property was never being used as a HMO, 
Im satisfied TMW was entitled to treat this document as legitimate. If Mr G disputes the 
accuracy of the letter and accompanying documentation, hell need to take that up with the 
LA.
Because TMW had recorded that there might be a breach of the mortgage conditions, it 
wasnt possible to apply for a product switch online. I find that to be reasonable, as TMW is 
entitled to make enquiries about the use of the property where its been told by the LA it is 
being used as a HMO. 
TMW has accepted that in late May/early June 2022 it was coping with a large volume of 
calls. Mr G hasnt provided evidence that he and/or his broker were trying multiple times a 
day between 23 May 2022 and 15 June 2022 to speak to TMW. But theres no obligation on 
TMW to have, as Mr G has suggested, contingent staff on hand in case of increased call 
volumes. I cant tell TMW how to run its business, and its up to TMW to decide on its staffing 
levels.
But Im not persuaded, even if Mr G had been able to speak to TMW on 23 May 2023, that 
the new product would have been put in place in time to start on 1 June 2022. A product 
switch is implemented in the month following a successful application. So a product applied 
for in June would always take effect from July. Assuming Mr G had sent on 23 May 2023 the 
paperwork he later supplied in June 2023 (which had a missing page), this still would not 
have been dealt with in time for a new product to be put in place to start on 1 June 2022. 
I say this because if it had taken four days for the paperwork to arrive, this would have been 
27 May 2022 (a Friday). In 2022 there was no late May Bank Holiday, but there were Bank 
Holidays on 2 and 3 June 2022 (because of the Queens Platinum Jubilee) so it would have 
been 7 June at the earliest that TMW could have looked at the paperwork, and then asked 
for the missing page. So the product switch could never had been put in place by the end of 
May 2022, and so could never have taken effect from 1 June 2022.
TMW has acknowledged that there was a delay in dealing with the paperwork sent in by 
Mr G (which, in any event, was incomplete). Overall, I am satisfied that TMW should 
backdate the new product to 1 July 2022, because if it had dealt with it within five working 
days, it could have sorted everything out before the end of June 2022, for the new product to 
start the following month.
TMW has confirmed that the 3.74% rate was the lowest available five-year fixed rate, and 
this is the rate the mortgage was transferred onto in September 2022.
Mr and Mrs G have also complained about having to chase TMW about their complaint. 
However, complaint-handling doesnt fall within the scope of a regulated activity, nor is it an 
activity that is ancillary to regulated activity (such as account or payment administration or 
arrears-handling). Therefore this issue isnt covered by our rules and so I am unable to 
comment on it.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, I direct The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to do the following:
backdate the five-year fixed rate 3.74% interest rate product to 1 July 2022;refund any overpayment made while the mortgage reverted to Standard Variable Rate to 
Mr and Mrs G, either by way of capital reduction or by a refund direct to them. Mr and 
Mrs G should tell TMW which option they require.
if Mr and Mrs G opt for a refund direct to them, TMW must pay simple interest of 8% per 
annum on the refund from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.*
I am satisfied that the £175 already paid for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable and I am not ordering TMW to pay anything more.
* If TMW considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from any interest, it 
should tell Mr and Mrs G how much it has taken off. TMW should also give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction 
certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to settle the complaint as detailed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman