DRN-2671479
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc failed to make reasonable adjustments for her 
disabilities, and complains about a number of other issues. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs A opened an account with Santander. She has a number of health 
conditions, and is housebound and partially sighted. She has made a number of complaints 
about a variety of issues, most of which have been consolidated into this complaint. I will not 
attempt to summarise everything here, since this has been done before and the issues are 
well known to the parties, but the most important and contentious issues have been to do 
with Mrs As ability to operate her account. It is necessary for her to receive all written 
correspondence in size 30 font, and this has frequently not happened. The nature of her 
disabilities is such that Santanders normal security procedures for telephone calls have 
been too difficult for her.
Much of this complaint, which has a long and involved history, has been about finding 
workable solutions to these problems, and also about how much compensation should be 
paid. There have also been a variety of customer service issues, often occasioned by call 
handlers not reading the notes about Mrs A which have been recorded on her account.
Our investigator upheld this complaint, and made a number of recommendations for 
Santander to follow to improve its service to Mrs A. She also recommended that Santander 
pay Mrs A a further £375, in addition to the compensation it had paid her already, which she 
thought was £715. Santander said it had already paid Mrs A £1,080 (it is actually £1,030), so 
at first it did not agree to pay her any more, but it agreed to the other recommendations. 
Later, after some of the known issues had recurred, Santander agreed to pay the £375 as 
well, making a total of £1,405.
Mrs A remains dissatisfied, and so this case has been referred to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that £1,405 is fair compensation for everything that has 
happened. £1,030 has already been paid, and Santander has agreed to pay the balance of 
£375, so I will make an order in those terms. To that extent, I uphold this complaint.
Turning to the solutions recommended by our investigator, I think these were sensible and 
helpful, and I am pleased to see that Santander has implemented most of them. This did not 
happen overnight, and I recognise that it must have been frustrating for Mrs A to have to wait 
for everything to be put in place, and when problems recurred. Most letters will be sent to her 
in size 30 font automatically, but some will have to be adjusted manually, which will depend 
on Santanders staff reading and complying with the notes on her account (I have seen 
these and they are comprehensive). Further failures to do that will be treated as new 
complaints. And there is one category of letter for which the font cannot be adjusted at all: 
the letters which accompany new bank cards. However, these will not have to be sent very 
frequently, and as they will be accompanied by new cards they will be self-explanatory.
Santander has agreed to send Mrs A sight cards (cards with oversized text). It appears that 
these were confused with braille cards at some stage, and since Mrs A does not read braille 
(as she is not completely blind) this upset her. But I think that was an honest mistake which 
has been resolved, and I dont propose to award further compensation for that.
Santander has adjusted its telephone security procedures to accommodate Mrs A. (There 
was an unexpected technical issue when implementing this solution, but it has now been 
resolved. I considered awarding more compensation for this, but on balance I think it is 
normal for computer technology to behave unpredictably sometimes, and so I have not.)
Santander has reinstated Mrs As online banking, to reduce her need for telephone banking. 
I have seen a screenshot showing that she has been able to successfully log on.
Santander has arranged for all of Mrs As current and future complaints to be dealt with by 
the same team (the chief executive office), to ensure consistency. I think that is important, as 
it will be helpful if Mrs A is dealt with by someone who is familiar with her history and her 
needs.
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to give Mrs A a single point of contact for all of her 
other dealings with Santander. However, I recognise that that may not have been 
practicable, and so I have not ordered Santander to do it. The solutions which have been 
adopted should be enough to enable Mrs A to operate her bank account henceforth.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs A £375, in 
addition to the £1,030 it has paid her already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman