DRN-3273654
The complaint
Mrs P (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans
at Home (LAH) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with lending.
Had it done better checks, Mrs P says it wouldve discovered she was in a debt spiral and so
she couldnt afford the loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs Ps complaint. LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why loans 2  16 were in this 
Services jurisdiction. I also went onto explain why I thought loans 6  16 shouldnt have 
been advanced. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs P took 16 loans from LAH between March 2002 and November 2012. A summary of her
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date number of 
weekly 
instalments
1 £540.00 20/03/2002 23/11/2005 40
2 £375.00 06/02/2008 10/12/2008 41
3 £375.00 10/12/2008 12/08/2009 41
4 £375.00 12/08/2009 07/04/2010 41
5 £200.00 21/10/2009 02/06/2010 32
6 £375.00 07/04/2010 01/12/2010 41
7 £200.00 07/07/2010 01/12/2010 32
8 £250.00 01/12/2010 15/06/2011 41
9 £375.00 01/12/2010 15/06/2011 41
10 £250.00 15/06/2011 14/12/2011 41
11 £375.00 15/06/2011 14/12/2011 41
12 £250.00 14/12/2011 03/10/2012 41
13 £375.00 14/12/2011 03/10/2012 41
14 £100.00 25/04/2012 07/11/2012 32
15 £500.00 05/09/2012 08/05/2013 41
16 £750.00 28/11/2012 09/11/2016 41
Following Mrs Ps complaint, LAH issued its FRL on 17 December 2020. It explained that
she had complained too late about all of her loans. LAH also said that due to the passage of
time, it no longer holds any documentation about this lending.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs P referred the complaint to this Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ps complaint. The assessment was split into two
parts.
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded that he couldnt see a reason to suggest that the
loans had been complained about too late  this meant this Service would be in a position to
consider loans 2  16. This Service couldnt consider the first loan because it was taken out
before this Services jurisdiction started.
In the second part, the adjudicator considered whether any of the loans (2  16) should be
upheld. He hadnt seen enough to uphold loans 2 and 3. But the adjudicator thought loans 4
 16 should be upheld. He concluded that by loan 4 the pattern of lending had become
harmful to Mrs P. So, LAH shouldnt have approved loans 4 to 16.
Mrs Ps representative acknowledged the adjudicators findings.
LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In its response to the adjudicator LAH
didnt focus on the merits of the case, instead it focused on whether this Service had the
jurisdiction to consider loans 2  16. In summary it said:
It disagreed with the approach this Service had taken with this case.
The approach is at odds with other, more recent complaints LAHs parent company
had received in relation to loans from another lender with the same group of
companies. That being aware of arrears ought to have been sufficient to have raised
a complaint and to start the clock on the three-year element of the time rule. LAH
provided examples of cases where this approach had been taken.
In this case, LAH told this Service Mrs P received arrears letters at various points of
the lending relationship including in 2008 and up to 2016. This is more than three
years before Mrs P logged her complaint. And so, in line with the example cases that
LAH has provided showed this case is outside of this Services jurisdiction.
The adjudicator has disregarded LAHs points about jurisdiction and the regulations
this Service must follow.
No evidence has been provided as to why this case is in this Services jurisdiction
and as such, LAH hasnt given this Service approval to consider these loans.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
The first aspect of this complaint is to deal with the jurisdiction issue remains outstanding.
But I want to be clear, and like the adjudicator, this Service cannot consider what happened
when loan 1 was approved. This is because this sort of loan product only became within this
Service jurisdiction from April 2007. So, I cant consider what did, or didnt, happen when
loan 1 was granted.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs P and LAH to
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider
loans 2  16. Ill explain why.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three
years after the complainant in this case, Mrs P knew, or ought really have known they had
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online
in the FCAs Handbook.
Its clear loans 2 to 16 were complained about more than six years after they were taken.
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs P was aware or ought to have been
reasonably aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had
reason to complain.
LAH has said that when Mrs P experienced repayment problems and received arrears letters
in 2008 and in 2016 and these shouldve caused her to realise, she had reason to complain.
But I dont think this is enough in this particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and therefore struggling to repay
the lending would no doubt have led Mrs P to realise there was a problem (in terms of her
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the
loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs P was or ought to have been
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained.
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 2 to 16 were raised within the time limits I need to apply
and that I do have the power to consider these loans Mrs P was given. Ill now go on and
consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly.
Irresponsible lending
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs P. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Mrs P
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mrs Ps complaint.
Loans 2 and 3
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint about these loans. Mrs P didnt disagree
with the adjudicators findings, but for completeness Ive looked at these loans. Having done
so, I agree with the adjudicators findings.
LAH has only provided this Service with limited information about these loans. It seems that
for each of these loans, LAH wouldve likely asked Mrs P some questions about her weekly
income and expenditure. But, as LAH has already explained, the documentation is no longer
available, so I dont know what LAH recorded.
Mrs P also hasnt provided any information about what her income and expenditure likely
was at the time these loans were approved. So, I dont know what her situation was at the
time.
In the absences of any other information as this was early in the lending relationship, I think
these checks that LAH carried out were likely to be proportionate and likely showed it that
Mrs P could afford these loans. Im therefore planning not to uphold her complaint about
loans 2 and 3.
Loans 4 and 5
In the adjudicators view, this loan and all later loans ought to have been upheld because , it
had now reached the point where the lending had become unsustainable for Mrs P taking
into account the time in debt, the number of loans and the pattern of her borrowing. So, he
thought, that these loans ought to not have been granted.
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont agree with the adjudicators assessment as to
why these loans were upheld. Ive explained why below.
Loan 4, was effectively, Mrs Ps third new loan (given the break between loans 1 and 2) in
around 18 months. In this chain of lending there hadnt been any obvious payment problems
up to this point. And Mrs Ps previous loans had all been for the same amount and her
indebtedness wasnt increasing.
So, I dont think those factors on their own are sufficient to now say the lending was now
unsustainable for Mrs P. So, I dont agree that loans 4 and 5 should be upheld for that
reason.
However, that doesnt mean that these loans shouldnt be upheld or that LAH did everything
it shouldve done before granting these loans.Given, Mrs P was returning again for a new loan on the same day a previous loan had been
repaid, she wasnt making any headway into reducing her indebtedness and she was
potentially extending her indebtedness for an additional 41 weeks. I do think, LAHs checks
needed to go further.
For these reasons, I think it wouldve now been reasonable, for LAH, in order to have carried
out a sound and proper credit assessment that it needed to have verified the information Mrs
P likely provided it. This wouldve given LAH a clear idea as to whether Mrs P was in a
position to take on further loans. So, I dont think the checks LAH did, at this point, went far
enough.
That isnt the end of the matter, although the checks, in my view, didnt go far enough that
doesnt mean these loans can be upheld. For me to be able to conclude this, I have to be
satisfied that now only did the checks do not go far enough. But had further checks been
carried out, LAH wouldve likely discovered these loans wouldve likely been unaffordable for
Mrs P.
Mrs P hasnt provided this Service with any information about what her living costs or income
were at the time these loans were approved, that isnt surprising given how long ago these
loans were approved. And so, without any documentary evidence to show me that if LAH
had carried out further checks then its decision to lend may have been different. Im not able
to conclude that LAH made an error when it approved these loans for Mrs P.
Loans 6  16
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 16 were proportionate
and Ill explain why below.
It looks like, based on what has been provided, that LAH took the same sort of information
for each loan. It asked Mrs P about her income and expenditure. Again, LAH isnt able to
provide this Service with the details of the figures that it took. But the same sort of reasons
Ive provided above for loans 4 and 5 I still think LAHs checks needed to go further.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Mrs P, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during
the course of its lending relationship with Mrs P.
Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs P, LAH should
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the
time it provided loan 6. I say this because:
By loan 6 it was just over two years into the lending relationship with no appreciable 
time where Mrs P wasnt indebted to LAH. And the loans had now started to overlap, 
with up to two loans running at the same time. In my view, Mrs Ps loan history up 
until this point was a clear indication that her underlying financial situation didnt 
seem to be improving.
Mrs P, up to this point, had taken new loans generally on the same day that a 
previous loan had been repaid. For example, loans 2 and 3 and loans 3 and 4. LAH 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs P, on these occasions, was 
having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me, this is 
an indication of her indebtedness not being sustainable.
So, from loan 6 onwards Mrs P was usually provided with a new loan on the same 
day that a previous loan was repaid.Mrs P showed a broadly similar pattern of borrowing, meaning her loan amounts 
remained consistent without any indication of significant loan reductions. Both in 
capital amount borrowed as well as her weekly commitment to LAH. Indeed, the 
longer she borrowed the more her commitment went up, it stayed around £25 per 
week but by loan 15 she was paying LAH £50 per week. I think its most likely this 
consistent pattern of borrowing over the period showed that Mrs P didnt just have a 
short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting regular living expenses or 
other financial commitments.
By the point of loan 16, as Mrs P was making a commitment to make repayments to 
LAH for nearly another year, after already being indebted for the majority of almost 
the last five years. She was also taking her largest capital loan to date. The amount 
of time that Mrs P spent indebted to LAH meant that she was in effect servicing a 
debt to LAH over an extended period of time.
I think that Mrs P lost out when LAH provided loans 6 - 16 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on
Mrs Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans 6 - 16. Ill go on to set out
what LAH should do to put things right.
Response to provisional decision 
Both parties were asked to provide any further information, evidence or comments to this 
Service for consideration no later than 21 January 2021. 
LAH hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
Mrs Ps representatives let us know that Mrs P had read the provisional decision and agreed 
with the outcome I was intending to reach. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P accepted the findings I made in the provisional decision and LAH hasnt responded. 
Given, no new comments or evidence have been provided, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I made in the provisional decision and I still think Mrs P made her complaint 
about loans 2  16 in time. I also dont think LAH shouldve have advanced loans 6  16 to 
her. 
Ive outlined below what LAH needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs P. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mrs P may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs P would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs P loans 6 - 16.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs P towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs P 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs P originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH should pay Mrs P the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Ps borrowing for loans 6 - 16 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint in part.
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right for Mrs P as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman