The
 complaint  
This
 complaints about a mortgage Miss B and Mr C took out with TSB Bank plc in 2017 and  
repaid in 2019. There are two components to the complaint; briefly, that TSB:  
didn
t tell them when they applied for the mortgage that they wouldnt be able to take
out a further advance for at least six months; and
after the six months had passed, a computer problem then stopped TSB from
offering them a further advance.
Mi
ss B and Mr C eventually re- mortgage elsewhere (on a higher rate) to get the extra  
money; TSB waived the early repayment charge (ERC) but Miss B and Mr C believe theyre  
due further compensation.  
The detai
ls of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What
 Ive decided  and why  
I
ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If
 the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what  
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly  
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.  
Al
though Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but  
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right  
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the  
round. In doing that, I dont take instructions from either party to the complaint.  
On 
the first part of the complaint, as Miss B and Mr C are the ones bringing the complaint  
against TSB, for me to uphold the complaint means their version needs to be more likely  
than TSBs version; not just as likely.  
TSB
 has a contemporaneous note saying the advisor told Miss B and Mr C about the six - 
month restriction on further advances. Of course, contemporaneous notes arent fool -proof  
but unless theres a persuasive reason to disregard them, well generally attach weight to  
them. Having considered everything before me presently, I cant say Miss B and Mr Cs  
version is anything more than, at best, just as likely, which is nt enough for me to uphold his  
complaint.  
DRN-1672214But in any event, Ive also seen a copy of an information pack that TSB provided to Miss B  
and Mr C which referenced the restriction. On balance, having considered everything both 
parties have said, the available evidence doesnt persuade me that TSB failed to tell Miss B  
and Mr C about the six -month restriction on further advances.  
 
Turning to the second element of the complaint, Miss B and Mr C fell victim to a  
business -wide problem following TSB switching computer platforms. TSB found itself unable 
to administer further advances and it was unsure how long it would before it could. It offered  
affected borrowers the opportunity to move lenders without incurring any ERC that might  
normally apply under the mortgage contract.  
 Thats what Miss B and Mr C did, but theyre still unhappy at losing out on some of the  
features and benefits that attracted them to TSB in the first place. Also theyre on a higher  
rate with their new lender. I appreciate Miss B and Mr Cs frustration, but that doesnt mean  
theyre due further compensation. They say they had no choice, but actually they did; the  
choice was between re -mortgaging to get access to the extra money immediately or waiting  
until TSB could fix its computer platform and resume offering further advances.  
 That may have been a choice between two unwelcome alternatives but it was still a choice,  
and in making it Miss B and Mr C prioritised their extra borrowing needs over the lower rate  
and attendant benefits of the TSB mortgage. Miss B and Mr C will have had their own  
reasons for doing so and Im certainly not going to criticise them for making the decision they  
made; it was their prerogative. But it was their decision and they must accept the  
consequences of making it.  
 My final decision  
 I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this  
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the  
merits of it.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C  
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
 
Jeff Parrington  
Ombudsman  