DRN-1950362
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
Sunny gave Mr M five loans between September 2018 and March 2019. 
Here are some of the main details of those loans: 
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest* 
Monthly 
Repayment*
1 28/09/2018 20/03/2019 6 £600.00 £159.56
2 26/10/2018 outstanding 6 £50.00 £175.57
3 03/12/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £205.69
4 24/12/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £234.57
5 26/03/2019 outstanding 6 £600.00 £247.26
 
 
Mr M said that Sunny gave him these loans when he was already taking out other payday 
loans to cover the repayments and these loans shouldnt have been provided if Sunny had 
done better checks before lending to him. 
Our adjudicator thought that there wasnt enough to say that loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt have 
been provided. But, at the point of loan 4, she felt that Sunny ought to have realised it was 
unlikely Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan (or any further loan) as he 
already had 3 other loans outstanding with Sunny. So our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms 
complaint about loans 4 and 5 and set out the steps Sunny should take to put things right.
Mr M told us he was looking forward to hearing what Sunny would say in response to her 
view letter and he asked the adjudicator to let him know if anything further was required from 
him. Sunny didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
Mr M got in touch to say he overlooked sending us some further information  our 
adjudicator confirmed he was still able to do this. But Mr M didnt get in touch further and 
appeared not to have responded to our adjudicators email.  
So I felt that the fairest way to progress the case towards a conclusion was for me to set out 
my thoughts in a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. In particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to fairly and reasonably realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had enough evidence to say loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including income and expenditure 
information from the time, and I agree. 
loan 1
I dont think Sunny was wrong to lend Mr M loan 1. This was his first loan with Sunny and so 
I think Sunny was entitled to rely on the information Mr M provided as there was no reason 
to disbelieve what Mr M said or question the information he provided. 
The information Sunny recorded for Mr M suggested that he was well able to afford this 
borrowing. There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Sunny did that indicated 
otherwise. 
At this early stage, Mr M didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Sunny to any underlying money problems. 
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant that Sunny shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr M had declared. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
A month or so after he took out loan 1, Mr M took out loan 2. 
Sunny asked Mr M to update the information he provided about his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Mr M  even 
bearing in mind that he was still paying loan 1. There wasnt anything to indicate to Sunny 
that Mr M had found it hard to manage the loan repayments for loan 1 or that paying for this 
loan was likely to become a problem. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr M took out loan 3 a little over a month after he took out loan 2  and while he was still 
paying loans 1 and 2. 
I dont feel I've seen enough to say Sunny shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. It was 
still quite early in the lending relationship and the combined loan repayments for all three 
loans should still have been affordable for Mr M looking at the information Sunny had 
gathered about his finances.
The repayments on loans 1 and 2 were up to date when Mr M took out loan 3. So, although 
he later had problems paying these loans, I dont think there was anything at the time to 
make Sunny think it was likely that paying loans 2 and 3 would become a problem for Mr M. 
Bearing in mind the amounts Mr M borrowed (loans 2 and 3 were a lot less than his first 
loan), I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to provide loan 3. Thats why Im 
not planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint about this loan. But looking at Mr Ms continuing borrowing pattern, I can see that when he asked to take out 
loan 4 he was still paying for loans 1, 2 and 3. And this time he asked for another £100 loan 
 after having already borrowed this amount just three weeks or so earlier. 
This suggests that he mightve been having problems managing his money. 
So although the loan looked affordable on the figures Mr M gave I dont think that Sunny 
shouldve continued to lend to Mr M without a more thorough check of his circumstances. 
Ive taken into account the checks Sunny said it carried out before approving this loan. But 
I think at this point Sunny should have made more in-depth enquiries into Mr Ms finances as 
his borrowing pattern was at odds with what hed told Sunny about his financial 
circumstances. Sunny hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out 
proportionate checks before agreeing loan 4. 
Mr M has provided some bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Sunny 
was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting Sunny should have done this. 
But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Ms 
finances at the time. And had Sunny looked in more depth at Mr Ms finances it would likely 
have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money.
I think Sunny wouldve learnt that Mr M had an established record of taking out short term 
loans. Sunny wouldve realised that it looked like Mr M had used some of the money hed 
previously borrowed from Sunny to repay other short term loans. And it wouldve likely found 
out that Mr M had other short term loans outstanding when Sunny provided loan 4 to him  
on top of his other loans already outstanding with Sunny.
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to think that it was likely Mr M would be 
able sustainably to repay loan 4. So it shouldnt have provided this loan  or allowed Mr M to 
borrow any further. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Sunny has said  including 
comments made in response to our adjudicators opinion. But just because Sunny allowed 
customers to take out up to four loans at a time doesnt mean that loan 4 was sustainably 
affordable for Mr M. For the reasons set out above, I dont think Sunny shouldve provided 
loan 4 to Mr M.
So as things stand at the moment, Im planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 4 
and 5.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has sent me any further information or commented on what I've said in my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. Putting things right  what Im planning to say Sunny needs to do
If Sunny has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances on loans 4 and 5, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
 
B. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then these should be paid back to 
Mr M with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of these loans then the 
amounts calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid 
to Mr M. And if there is still an outstanding balance, then Sunny should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loans 4 and 5 once they are 
repaid  and ask the debt purchaser to do the same if Sunny sold these loans on. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) to take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman