DRN-3560349
The complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc held him liable for a credit card debt that he
didnt apply for.
What happened
Mr W has explained that he became aware of an outstanding debt related to a credit card in
his name. The account had been applied for a few years prior to this. Mr W explained that he
received a letter from Capital One which was sent to Mr Ws current address. Mr W
contacted Capital One about the debt and explained to them that he wasnt responsible for it.
Mr W provided evidence that he was the victim of other identity theft attempts with mobile
phones and other financial products. Capital One looked into the circumstances of the credit
card and believed that Mr W was responsible for applying for the card and declined to refund
him.
Mr W complained about this but Capital One declined to change their position. Mr W brought
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review where it was looked
into by one of our investigators. Both parties were asked to provide evidence and Mr W sent
in copies of letters from other merchants accepting hed been a victim of impersonation and
a history of addresses where hed lived.
Capital One supplied evidence from when the account was opened which included a link to
Mr Ws bank account that was used to pay the first direct debit after the account was
opened. Capital One believed Mr W had called them when the account was open because
they thought his voice matched other calls when he reported the fraud.
Our investigator thought, on balance, that Mr W hadnt opened this account. They
considered that some of the details (email address and mobile phone number) didnt match
those used by Mr W and the voice match was questionable. Mr Ws complaint was upheld.
Capital One disagreed and provided further evidence about the account. They identified
payments from the account to another merchant which used Mr Ws surname. They believed
that as Mr Ws surname was fairly unusual this was evidence he was responsible for the
account. Further evidence of online banking activity was produced which identified the
device used to access the banking was referred to as ******** iPhone ( the * being Mr Ws
first name).
Capital One argued that although the email address didnt exactly match  it was only
different because of two numbers added to it and that the original email address on the
application was set up some years prior to the account application  making it more likely
that it was Mr Ws genuine address at the time.
Capital One pointed out that the original direct debit set up on the account was from Mr Ws
genuine bank account  something that Mr W originally told Capital One about but later
couldnt remember.
The decision has been passed to me and Ive asked both parties for additional information to
clarify certain points.
Mr W wanted to explain that none of the direct debits were set up by him  including others
using bank accounts unconnected to Mr W which were later cancelled due to fraud.
Mr W said hed left himself on the electoral role at his previous address  which was the one
recorded by Capital One for the account, which hed now changed because he believed this
left him open to identity fraud. Mr W explained he was living at a different address since
2017.
Mr W confirmed he hadnt used the mobile phone number recorded by Capital One, nor had
he ever used the email address recorded on the account.
Mr W didnt know why the phone that accessed the mobile banking app had his first name
on it and speculated that it could have been the person impersonating him or it was
someone else with the same name as him.
Mr W supplied information that he was assisted with managing his financial accounts
because of a medical condition.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint is that he was the victim of identity theft and someone else applied for a
credit card with Capital One in his name and generated a debt which hes now being held
liable for.
Mr W wants Capital One to accept he was the victim and stop any recovery action of the
debt and amend their reporting to the credit reference agencies.
Its Capital Ones case that Mr W made the application for the credit card and theyve
supplied evidence to support this which Mr W has challenged. So, Ill deal with the various
pieces of evidence to explain my current thinking.
Addresses
The original application form contains an address which Ill refer to as 1. Mr W explained he
used to live at 1 but had moved to another address  2.
Mr W said he was notified about the debt when Capital One sent him a letter at his new
address (presumably 2). The only letter Ive seen was sent to Mr W at 1 in September 2020
to answer his complaint.
When Mr W contacted Capital One in August 2020 to explain the identity theft  he gave
them a detailed account of where he was living, which was between 2016 and 2018 at 2
(when the application was made) and he was now living at 1.
Mr W completed a complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman in November 2021 using the
address at 1 and later changed this to 2 in February 2022.
Mr W sent in a copy of a bank statement showing his address at 2 and described this as
evidence he was living there in September 2018, although the statement was generated in
2021 and shows it had an address amended in May that year. This doesnt show that the
address on the statement was where Mr W was necessarily living in September 2018because it was amended in 2021 and only shows the current address held by the bank (2).
Mr W confirmed in an email:
I am currently living at 2*. I have lived here since December 2017 which
is the date I moved from 1*.
There are conflicts about which address Mr W was living at in his various emails and
conversations about the complaint. Im inclined to think that Mr W had links to the address
used on the application form at the time of the application.
Mobile Phone
Mr W denied having the mobile phone number linked to the account. Capital One supplied
evidence of calls made to them since the account was opened. The same number that was
used with the account throughout its operation was also used to call Capital One in August
2020 to first report the fraud by Mr W. Its apparent from this that Mr W did have access to
the same phone that was used to register the account.
Email Address
Mr W denied having access to the email address linked to the account and its difficult to
positively associate this with someone. Capital Ones records from the application show that
the same email address was linked to Mr W with an application at a different financial
provider. Ive thought about whether this was linked to other identity fraud issues Mr W
informed us about  but I dont think this is the case. The email address was registered
some years before it was used on these financial applications and it seems unlikely to me
that it was anyone else other than Mr W who would do this. The email address is Mr Ws full
name (which is fairly uncommon), although he denies anything to do with it.
Direct Debits
When the account was first opened, it was set up with a direct debit from Mr Ws own bank
account and a payment was taken from it. Soon after this the direct debit was changed to
various other accounts not associated with Mr W which were later identified as fraudulent.
What appears to have happened is that after the first direct debit from Mr Ws account was
paid, the others were set up to recycle the available credit by using fraudulent direct debits.
This meant that Capital One thought they were to receive a legitimate payment for the
account and released further credit which was then spent before the new direct debit was
cancelled. This increased the debt and the appeared to be cleared by a further direct debit
which repeated the spending of available credit. Whoever was using the account was closely
monitoring it to take advantage of a small window to spend further credit before the direct
debits were refunded. It seems to me that whoever set up this account also knew a lot of
details about Mr Ws other bank and was able to successfully arrange a direct debit which
wasnt noticed by Mr W at the time. Hes explained that due to his condition, other people
were managing his account and wouldnt have realised this payment shouldnt have gone
out.
I appreciate the difficulties Mr W has told us about and Ive thought about his explanation of
other persons managing his affairs. Whilst I understand Mr W wouldnt necessarily have
detailed oversight of his account, if someone else is managing it because Mr W cant , then I
would think that its reasonable for those managing it to have an understanding of what was
going on as that seems to be an essential part of assisting someone if they cant do itthemselves. The direct debit payment was relatively large compared to what Mr W had in his
account at the time and would have stood out, so Im surprised it wasnt noticed by whoever
was managing his affairs.
Payments from the account
Mr W denied making any of the payments from the account and confirmed he didnt use one
particular merchant Ill refer to as J. Theres a payment to J from the account with the
reference of Mr Ws surname and Mr W couldnt offer an explanation why that happened. Im
not sure why anyone other than Mr W would use his own name as a reference for a payment
to J. Ive also noted a few transactions to J on Mr Ws bank account.
There are also payments from the credit card to merchants in the same general location that
Mr W lives, including one thats less than two minutes from address 1.
Mobile banking reference.
Capital Ones evidence was that the device used to access their mobile banking app had a
reference embedded in it which was ******* iPhone. Mr W couldnt explain this and
speculated it could have been the person whod stolen his identity, or it was a coincidence. I
dont think either of those are the explanation here. If a fraudster was responsible for this
account, Im not sure why theyd go to the trouble of naming their phone with the same first
name of the account holder or that theyd even be aware this type of data was transmitted
when they used the mobile banking app. It could of course be a coincidence, but I dont think
Mr Ws name is terribly common, so I think the likely explanation it was a phone linked to Mr
W.
Summary
Ive closely examined the information supplied by both parties and on balance, Im not
currently of the opinion that the account opened with Capital One was done without Mr Ws
knowledge or consent. When I asked for further information concerning this complaint, Mr W
then informed me that he had a condition that meant other helped manage his affairs. Ive
taken that into account, but I think there are too many factors that link Mr W to this
application.
The phone linked registered with the account was used by Mr W to report the fraud.
Mr W has been inconsistent about where he was living, and the evidence indicates
he was linked to the address used to operate the account which had payments from
the local store and others in the general location.
The email address was registered some years before it was used to open this
account and it was linked to other financial applications around the same time which
werent associated with Mr Ws evidence from other merchants of identity theft.
The original direct debit was set up using Mr Ws account before being changed in
order to recycle the credit and take money from Capital One.
The account was linked to the phone using Mr Ws his first name.
There were payments to J using Mr Js surname.Ive thought about Mr Ws case that other businesses accepted he was the victim of identity
theft, so should Capital One. What Im dealing with here is a complaint against Capital One
and whilst Mr W has provided evidence from these merchants  the evidence Ive examined
points to Mr W being more likely than not responsible for the original application and use of
the account.
My provisional decision
My current thinking is that Im not intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint against Capital One.
I invited Mr W and Capital One to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Mr W didnt respond and Capital One didnt 
have anything further to add about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman