DRN-3207744
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) by Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, referred to as Halifax. 
Mr F is being assisted by his wife Mrs F.  
What happened
In 1998, Mr F invested £6,000 into a Halifax PEP. 
In March 2021, Mr F complained via a CMC that he was given unsuitable investment advice 
in relation to an ISA. The CMC said that Mr F had been advised to invest too much money, 
take too much risk and do so at an inappropriate time. In other words, as a result of an 
accident in the 80s Mr F was unable to make complex financial decisions. No mention was 
made of the PEP at the time.  
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint saying the ISA was sold on a non-advised basis, 
therefore it was up to Mr F to make an informed decision based on the information provided. 
Subsequently, the CMC ceased to represent Mr F, and his wife took over representing him. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, and the matter wasnt 
pursued.  
It later came to light that Mr F also had a PEP that the CMC didnt complain about. So, in 
October 2021, Mr F via his wife complained that he was given unsuitable investment advice. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said that the PEP was sold on a non-advised 
basis, therefore it was for Mr F to consider whether the product was suitable or not. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, hes not persuaded that Mr F was given 
advice to invest in the PEP. 
Mr F was provided with enough policy documentation to be able to make his own 
decision. 
Theres no evidence that Halifax assessed Mr Fs circumstances. 
Despite what Mrs F says  about Mr Fs accident in 1986 and his inability to make 
informed decisions  Halifax was never made aware of this. So, it wouldnt be fair to 
ask Halifax to put Mr F in the position he would be in if he hadnt invested at all. 
In any case, Mr F appears to have made a gain on his PEP, therefore he wouldnt be 
entitled to any compensation, even if the complaint was upheld. 
Mrs F said that Mr F disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. She said he doesnt recall receiving any paperwork and nothing 
about the charges that applied.
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs F says, Im unable to safely 
say that Halifax behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. Mrs F has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr F wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs F and Halifax, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs F says, it seems more likely 
(than not) that the PEP was taken out on a direct basis. In other words, it seems likely that it 
was sold without financial advice, and on balance, I cant safely say that it wasnt. I note Mrs 
F concedes that the investment was made in response to a mailshot received in the post.
  
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr F bought the PEP of his own 
volition, by filling out an application form in the post and as a result, Im unable to consider 
the suitability of it. Despite what Mrs F says, I cant say that Mr F was deliberately targeted 
by Halifax or taken advantage of because it wouldnt have known about his accident. In any 
case, if Mr F did something he ought not to have, such as investing his money, I cant blame 
Halifax for this. 
Whether or not the investment was right for Mr F given his age, financial experience and 
state of health following the accident in the 80s, is not something I can consider. I believe 
the onus was on him to make sure that the PEP was suitable for his circumstances. For 
example, even if the PEP carried too much risk, I cant safely conclude that Halifax was 
responsible for this because I cant safely say that he was advised to take out the 
investment. 
Despite what Mr F now says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its unlikely 
that he wouldnt have been provided with the relevant policy documentation before deciding 
to go ahead with the PEP. Im mindful that in 1998 Mr R signed the following declaration: 
I confirm that I have received details of the key features document of the Halifax PEP Total
Return Mandate, including an illustration of the effect of charges.
If Mr F wasnt clear about anything, or information about how the investment worked, he 
couldve contacted Halifax or sought advice elsewhere. And if he changed his mind, its more 
likely (than not) he wouldve been able to cancel the investment within the cooling off period. I note the investigator said that Mr F made a gain on his investment  a profit of 31% - and 
therefore hes unlikely to receive any compensation for loss, even if the complaint was 
upheld. But given the points above, I wouldnt uphold this complaint even if Mr F made a 
loss, because he, and not Halifax, was responsible for making sure the PEP was suitable for 
him.   
I appreciate Mr Fs overall concerns with the situation and recognise he will be disappointed 
that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the matter 
careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman