DRN-3788052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont extend the term of their interest-only 
mortgage or move them onto another product as the term of this mortgage is coming to the 
end of its term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have an interest-only mortgage with Lloyds taken out in late 2007 for term of 
16 years. The borrowing was for £775,000 and the property was valued then at £1,100,000. 
The mortgage is coming to the end of its term and Mr and Mrs H say that all the proposals 
from Lloyds to deal with the situation (move house, restructure Mr Hs business to make his 
income calculation fit with affordability) would cause financial hardship and distress.
As the term was coming to an end Lloyds says it sent review letters inviting Mr and Mrs H to 
contact its End of Term team. Mr and Mrs H want to extend the term, but Lloyds says that 
the repayment vehicle they offered, the sale of the mortgaged property, was no longer an 
acceptable repayment vehicle. Lloyds said that it looked at transferring the mortgage to a 
capital repayment basis, but Mr and Mrs Hs lack of pension provision prevented the 
mortgage going into retirement and that a shorter mortgage would be unaffordable. Lloyds 
says that its lending criteria may change and that it would put in place a 12-month grace 
period if Mr and Mrs H wanted it to enable them to look at alternative routes forward with 
other lenders.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as an extension of 
the mortgage wasnt in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests as they would pay additional interest 
over the additional term, the property could decrease in value and life events might change 
their plans. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have a property that they tell me is worth between £1.7m and £1.9m which 
leaves them an equity of about £1m. They tell me their joint income is £200,000. They are in 
their early 50s with one child still living at home and two at university. They also have a buy 
to let property with about £120,000 in equity. They say that they have always been prepared 
to sell the property when all their children have left home which they hope to do in five years 
when they intend to move from the area and possibly outside the UK.
Mr and Mrs H have a contract with Lloyds that requires repayment of the mortgage balance 
by 2023 but they dont have the savings that would repay it. Lloyds would like the balance 
repaid but it also has an End of Term team that seems to have engaged with Mr and Mrs H. 
about other ways of repaying it, but these efforts havent been successful. Mr and Mrs H 
preferred option is to extend the present interest only period until all their children have left 
home. I note that they hope that will be in five years but of course not all children leave home 
at age 18 so the actual date of the extension is somewhat vague, but Ive proceeded on the 
basis that it is five years.
 
Lloyds says that as Mr H and Mrs H dont have an acceptable repayment vehicle under the 
current rules that apply to interest-only mortgages, it cant offer them the five-year extension 
that they want. The sale of the mortgaged property is no longer an acceptable repayment 
vehicle for an interest-only mortgage. The bank then looked at whether it could extend the 
mortgage on a repayment basis. The bank noted Mr and Mrs Hs lack of pension provision 
so considered whether it could lend to age 75 on that basis but concluded that the mortgage 
would be unaffordable when stress tested against a higher interest rate. I also noted that Mr 
and Mrs H werent interested in a mortgage term that long as they might want to move 
abroad when all their children leave the home.
M and Mrs H want the lender to make a change to their mortgage term. The change isnt 
material to affordability e g as a potential five-year extension, it doesnt go into their 
retirement, but this has been declined by Lloyds because its applying the stricter 
affordability rules that currently apply to interest only mortgages. So, I have to consider 
whether its in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests that they get the extension. 
Mr and Mrs H have given me various reasons why they would like an extension as they 
would like to stay where they are for five years and then decide where to move to. But I have 
to consider their best interests in the context that they owe a debt of about £700,000 that has 
to be repaid through the sale of the property and whether they are going to benefit from a 
five-year extension in that context. In order to repay this debt Mr and Mrs H are always going 
to have to sell this house. If they sell the house currently, they have the means to repay this 
debt and release an equity of about £1m to acquire another property. Mr and Mrs H say that 
if they move now they will pay stamp duty on the move and then in five years pay stamp duty 
again. But that is all rather vague and hypothetical. If the move now, they may not move out 
of the area at all and be content in their new property; they may move abroad and not pay 
stamp duty.
 
Mr and Mrs Hs proposal is to delay the sale to some future date. The means of repayment 
remains the same  the sale of the property. Mr and Mrs H arent suggesting any other 
means of repayment such as a lump sum pension payment that might benefit from a delay. 
Mr and Mrs H also asked me to look at two other complaints dealt with by this service where 
in an end of term case we agreed to an extension. 
In one complaint, that of Mr and Mrs S, the Ombudsman noted that there had been a change 
in the borrowers finances so that they couldnt repay the mortgage using the sale of 
investments as they hoped to but wanted an extension to coincide with the borrowers 
retirement, partly I note to avoid drawing down a pension early that would be to their 
financial detriment  Our Ombudsman agreed that it would have been in their best interests to 
extend the term until retirement. 
In the other case Mr Cs plan was to sell his house on retirement and had a mortgage term 
aligned with his retirement at 60.  But Mr C was able to extend the date of his retirement and 
our Ombudsman agreed that it was in his best interests to extend the term to coincide with 
that. I noted that the mortgaged property was close to Mr Cs work and that his ability to work 
until retirement seemed to depend on retaining the property. Both these cases have a 
common theme absent in this case  our Ombudsmen deciding that in these particular 
circumstances related to the borrowers retirement that it was in their best interests to extend 
the term so that the sale of the property coincided with the borrowers upcoming retirement. 
 
I also note that in these complaints no mention is made of the equity that those borrowers 
held in their properties. Mr and Mrs H will have substantial equity after payment of the debt owed to Lloyds which allows them to sell this property and obtain a suitable alternative - 
even a mortgage free alternative in an era of rising interest rates. It may involve some 
element of downsizing, but two children have left home, and Mr and Mrs H have access to 
equity in a buy to let and earnings which are substantially above average which would likely 
give them access to a smaller mortgage if required. 
As our investigator indicated, there are substantial interest costs in remaining in the property 
and there are life changes such as employment changes or illness that may mean that they 
may not be in as good a financial position as they are now in in five years time. Although I 
recognise that Mr and Mrs H would like to delay the sale by five years, I dont consider that 
there are compelling reasons that would lead me to conclude that delaying the repayment of 
the debt until then is in their best interests. 
I also have to be fair to Lloyds. It lent money to Mr and Mrs H from which they clearly 
benefited but on the expectation that in 2023 the money would be repaid. It seems to have 
contacted Mr and Mrs H in advance of the term ending and considered other options that 
would allow payment of the mortgage balance by other means rather than sale of the 
property, but this hasnt been possible. 
So, for the above reasons I dont consider that Lloyds has done anything wrong.  I note that 
Lloyds are prepared to allow Mr and Mrs H a years extension of the mortgage term to give 
them some breathing space at the end of the term to consider their options which seems fair. 
But, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman