DRN-3876340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has given them a number of 
different redemption figures for their mortgage and home improvement loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S purchased a new property on 8 March 2022 and ported their existing 
mortgage products to the new property. 
Shortly afterwards, Barclays sent letters dated 8 and 9 March to Mr and Mrs S explaining 
that they hadnt paid enough to redeem their mortgage and home improvement loan in full. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted their solicitor to find out what was going on and were advised their 
solicitor had sent the wrong amount. 
Their solicitor confirmed how much more they would need to pay, but Mr and Mrs S said this 
didnt match the amount Barclays had referenced in its letters. From what Barclays said, 
they estimated they would have to pay around £1,000 more than their solicitor thought they 
should.
Mr and Mrs S say their solicitor tried to get Barclays to explain the difference a number of 
times, over several weeks, but didnt manage to resolve the situation. So, Mr and Mrs S 
made a formal complaint. 
Barclays reviewed the complaint, but it seems Mr and Mrs S received a different customers 
final response letter. Mr and Mrs S say they then received compensation of £200 without any 
further explanation. So, Mr and Mrs S were still unsure how much they needed to pay. They 
say the situation has been stressful, particularly for Mrs S who has a mental health condition.
Barclays reviewed Mr and Mrs S complaint again after it was brought to this service. It has 
explained that in addition to the shortfall owed from Mr and Mrs S solicitors payment, an 
early repayment charge (ERC) of £718.99 was payable because Mr and Mrs S paid off 
more than 25% of their loan and 25% is the maximum allowed to avoid an ERC. So, the 
amount Mr and Mrs S still have to pay is £4,800.20 in total. Barclays offered an additional 
£150 to say sorry for the confusion caused. 
Our investigator informed Mr and Mrs S of Barclays offer, but as they didnt accept it, a view 
was issued setting out the investigators findings. They thought the compensation should be 
increased to £450 to acknowledge the length of time it took to get the right figures, that 
incorrect figures were sent on multiple occasions, and that Barclays had sent Mr and Mrs S 
a final response letter unrelated to their complaint. 
Barclays accepted the investigators findings, but as Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
A final redemption statement was sent to Mr and Mrs S solicitor on 28 February 2022. The 
statement said Mr and Mrs S would need to pay £272,373.99 to redeem both accounts in 
full. This figure included the full ERCs on both the main mortgage account and home 
improvement loan, which Mr and Mrs S solicitor understood they wouldnt have to pay 
because they were porting both products. After deducting the ERC amount, their solicitors 
calculation was incorrect, and they underpaid by around £4,100.
Barclays has since explained its terms and conditions in relation to porting, which confirms 
that if a customer paid off more than 25% of their outstanding mortgage, reducing the ported 
amount to less than 75%, an ERC will still be payable. And, as Mr and Mrs S ported less 
than 75% of their home improvement loan to their new property, Barclays completed a 
calculation to work out what portion of the charge would apply. 
Mr and Mrs S need to pay an ERC of £718.99, in addition to the shortfall created by their 
solicitors underpayment. Barclays say the total figure is £4,800.20, which is around the 
amount I would expect it to be.
Barclays issued a letter on 8 March 2022 which quoted a sum of £3,755.46 outstanding. I 
note another letter was sent on 9 March that confirmed the final balance may not reflect any 
final fees. So, I dont think this figure included the £275 mortgage exit fee Mr and Mrs S were 
required to pay. If you add that fee to the sum quoted, the balance is around the same 
amount Mr and Mrs S solicitor underpaid by, not including the ERC.
Barclays then sent a letter on 30 March 2022 to say it had tried to contact Mr and Mrs S 
about the shortfall on their mortgage and warned them that interest would accrue on the 
account. I think this is likely why the future redemption statements they received quoted 
different amounts. For example, on 19 April 2022 they were sent an illustrative redemption 
statement which said they owed £5,070.89 plus a £275 mortgage exit fee. I think its more 
likely than not this figure included the ERC and also additional interest. 
Looking at the call notes recorded by Barclays, Mr and Mrs S solicitor spoke to it on 
21 March 2022 and said an ERC had been applied when it shouldnt have been and asked 
for a closing statement. The notes dont reference that the solicitor had underpaid as well, 
just that Mr and Mrs S had ported their mortgage and therefore shouldnt have to pay the 
ERC.
Then on 6 April 2022, Mr and Mrs S solicitor spoke to Barclays again and the calls notes 
say they enquired about whether the matter was resolved. It appears the call handler 
reviewed the main mortgage account which had been paid off in full and thought the account 
should therefore have been closed. They sent an internal message for this to be done. And 
the notes suggest the solicitor accepted this at the time. 
On 22 April 2022 Mr and Mrs S solicitor wrote to Barclays to say they had called multiple 
times and have been given different figures to settle the account. They wanted Barclays to 
confirm precisely how much was due and how this had been calculated. The letter also said 
it believed the matter was resolved following its call on 21 March, until Mr and Mrs S had 
been in touch to say Barclays had asked them to pay £4,800.20.The information discussed in the calls varies from Barclays call notes to the timelines 
provided in the solicitors letter. Ive thought about this and I think its likely the call notes are 
more reliable as they were recorded on the days the calls took place. Either way, its clear to 
me that the call handlers Mr and Mrs S solicitor spoke to didnt have the full picture when 
they confirmed the account statuses. 
Mr and Mrs S solicitor was aware that they had underpaid regardless of whether an ERC 
was chargeable or not, so they ought reasonably to have known the matter was not resolved 
and it doesnt appear as though they communicated this from what the notes say. I think the 
letter the solicitor sent supports this, as they have said they thought everything was resolved 
even though it couldnt have been.  
I think its more likely than not the call handler only checked the main mortgage account 
which had been repaid in full and was fully ported to Mr and Mrs S new property. The home 
improvement loan was the larger of the accounts and it was this account that had a 
remaining balance on it, and that an ERC was applied to.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S solicitor says they gave Barclays both account numbers and so 
this mistake shouldnt have happened, but I still think they had enough information at the 
time to correct the call handlers understanding of what had gone wrong. This may have 
allowed them to get to the bottom of the misunderstanding with the ERC on the loan. 
Following this, Barclays sent a final redemption statement on 6 May 2022, again quoting a 
different amount of £5,814.15. By this point, Mr and Mrs S had already been informed of the 
correct amount of £4,800.20. But I appreciate they werent sure they could rely on that figure 
given the other figures they continued to receive. 
So, from what Ive seen, the original error by Mr and Mrs S solicitor was compounded by 
Barclays because it didnt properly explain that a portion of the ERC on the home 
improvement loan would be payable. Had this been explained, the matter could have been 
resolved much sooner as Mr and Mrs S would have understood how much they still needed 
to pay and why. 
Barclays was not responsible for their solicitors mistake. And I cant see that any payment 
was made to resolve this issue while the other concerns were being discussed. So, I think 
Barclays would have been applying interest to the shortfall, although it appears to have 
waived this as its only asking for the same amount of £4,800.20.
The complaint was upheld on 3 June 2022 and £200 was offered to say sorry for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. Its not clear whether Mr and Mrs S received the letter 
as they say the £200 appeared in their account without any explanation. So, its 
understandable if Mr and Mrs S still didnt know what information to rely on. In addition, 
Mr and Mrs S received a final response letter intended for another customer, and I think this 
will have given them further cause for concern. 
Barclays has already acknowledged all of these issues in the offer it made directly to this 
service and increased its award to £350. Its since accepted our investigators view and 
increased the offer to £450 in total and considering everything I think the total compensation 
Barclays has agreed to pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because, I dont think communication between all parties was clear at times. Only a 
small portion of the outstanding balance was relevant to the misunderstanding with the ERC. 
The majority of it remained due to a mistake on Mr and Mrs S solicitors part. I appreciate it 
would have been frustrating receiving several different figures in an attempt to finally close 
the account, and I think the situation could have been resolved much sooner than it was. But 
I think £450 is higher than we would usually award in similar circumstances. And Mr and 
Mrs S havent been charged additional interest even though, putting aside the ERC, they 
have owed Barclays around £4,100 for several months as a result of their solicitors mistake.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have queried the overpayment listed on some of the statements 
theyve received. And it seems they now believe this amount is owed to them. I cant 
consider that as part of this complaint  Mr and Mrs S would need to raise it with Barclays 
first. But it might be helpful if I explain that any overpayments made would usually have been 
added to the account balances at the time, and therefore built into the redemption statement. 
In most cases, it wouldnt mean funds are owed by the bank, or that the figure should be 
deducted from a final redemption amount.
To be clear, Mr and Mrs S owed Barclays a final redemption sum of £4800.20. The figure 
includes the outstanding amount due following their solicitors underpayment on 8 March 
2022, plus £718.99 which is the percentage of the ERC applicable to their home 
improvement loan because they ported less 75% of it. Mr and Mrs S should make 
arrangements to pay this sum to Barclays if they havent already.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Pay a further £250 to Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman