DRN-4330611
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter irresponsibly gave him a fixed 
sum loan agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr B applied for a fixed sum loan with RateSetter. He was given a loan for 
£10,000. The total repayable, including the loan fee and interest was £12,062.40. He was 
required to repay 48 monthly repayments of £251.30. 
In November 2022, Mr B complained to RateSetter to say the loan should never have been 
provided to him. He said that appropriate affordability checks hadnt been completed and if 
they had, RateSetter would have seen the loan was unaffordable to him. RateSetter didnt 
think it had acted unfairly when lending to Mr B. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought RateSetter had 
completed proportionate affordability checks and there was nothing in the checks that 
suggested Mr B wouldnt be able to afford the borrowing. 
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt a set list of checks RateSetter were required to complete before lending to Mr B. 
The rules required it to ensure it carried out proportionate checks. What is proportionate will 
vary with each lending decision and takes into account things such as (but not limited to): the 
amount of credit, the size of the repayments, the cost of the credit, the purpose the credit 
was taken out for and the consumers circumstances. 
Mr B declared on the application he was self-employed and earned an annual salary of 
£55,000. This equated to a monthly salary of around £3,200. He said he paid rent and that 
he wanted the loan to consolidate existing debts. He declared these to be £3,000 of credit 
card debt, £5,000 for an overdraft and £2,000 in other bills. 
RateSetter completed a credit check which showed that Mr B had an overdraft facility of 
£5,000 and a credit card with a limit of £3,000. It showed he also held a second credit card 
with a limit of around £1,000 although he had only utilised less than £40 of that credit. The 
credit check also showed a car finance agreement with monthly repayments of £432 which 
was being managed well. 
The credit check showed indications that Mr B had been experiencing some financial 
difficulty throughout 2018 and 2019. However, all of those debts had since been settled and 
there were no signs of further payment issues since. RateSetter says it used credit reference 
agency data to also check Mr Bs declared income and this returned no concerns. Finally, 
RateSetter says it used statistical data to estimate Mr Bs likely essential expenditure and it 
said this showed he had sufficient income to sustainably afford the new loan repayments. 
Based on the checks RateSetter completed and what Mr B had declared about his 
circumstances, including the purpose of the loan, I think RateSetter completed proportionate 
affordability checks in this specific case. Having thought about what those checks showed, 
Ive seen no reason to persuade me that RateSetter made an unfair lending decision. 
I say this because there were no signs of recent financial difficulty. Mr B had a reasonable 
income, and the purpose of the loan was to consolidate the majority of his existing debt, 
meaning his overall credit commitments wouldnt increase. Mr B was also likely to be paying 
significantly less interest on this loan than he would have been in his overdraft and credit 
card that would be consolidated by this loan. 
I note Mr B says that he was gambling heavily at the time and hes provided evidence of that 
from his bank statements. However, Ive not seen anything that makes me think RateSetter 
either knew this or ought to have known. I dont think there was anything in the checks it did 
that ought to have prompted it to have done the type of thorough examination of Mr Bs bank 
statements that would have likely led to that revelation. 
Lastly, Mr B says that because he was self-employed RateSetter ought to have done more 
to verify his income. However, Mr B appears to accept the annual income he declared on the 
application was broadly accurate. And the bank statements hes provided to us for the three 
months prior to the lending also indicate that his income was both consistent and at the level 
he declared. While I accept that there may well have been some months within the year his 
income was lower, I dont think it would have been reasonable or proportionate for 
RateSetter to have sought month by month verification of his income for a much longer 
period. And even if it had, as Mr Bs annual income was broadly what he declared, Im not 
persuaded that level of check would have reasonably resulted in any different lending 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman