DRN-3322283
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to refund money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
Mr O decided to invest with a company called 4XFX in February 2019 after seeing a TV 
advert. He first paid them using a credit card account he held with another bank. Then on 7 
March 2019 he paid them £5,000 using his Visa debit card  linked to his HSBC current 
account. This money wasnt paid directly to 4XFX and was instead paid to a legitimate crypto 
exchange Ill call C. On 20 March 2019, Mr O paid £4,999.80 to C using his HSBC Visa 
debit card. 
In May 2020, Mr O approached HSBC explaining he wanted to dispute the two payments 
hed made to C as he thought hed been the victim of a scam. After considering Mr Os 
paperwork, HSBC said it couldnt process chargeback claims for him as he was outside 
Visas time limits. And as he didnt use a credit card, it couldnt consider section 75. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr O referred his complaint to this office, he felt that HSBC 
ought to have flagged the payments as unusual given what the law and good industry 
practice says. One of our Investigators didnt think HSBC should do anything differently. She 
agreed that chargeback and section 75 werent options for Mr O. And she didnt think the 
payments were all that unusual for him given the previous spending pattern on his account. 
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, he didnt think the 
law, relevant codes and good industry practice had been properly considered. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr O.
HSBC first considered that Mr O had brought his dispute to them outside Visas timescales. 
The nature of Mr Os dispute surrounded a scam or misrepresentation on the part of 4XFX. 
In most cases a misrepresentation dispute claim should be made within 120 days. But there 
are circumstances where this time can be extended up to 540 days and in cases of 
investment disputes requires some specific evidence on the part of the cardholder (Mr O). 
Our Investigator explained this and considered Mr O didnt have this evidence. Mr O feels 
that HSBCs chargeback team didnt assist with attempts to gather what it needed.
But even if Mr O was able to produce the evidence required for investment trading disputes 
(and Ive not seen evidence that he could have obtained this), this surrounds his 
disagreement with 4XFX. He didnt pay them directly. He paid C and would have received a 
service from C which would have involved changing his £sterling into crypto before sending 
it to the wallet address he supplied it with. In this case, the processing date of the 
transactions would be relevant in deciding whether or not HSBC could process chargeback 
claims on his behalf. And I agree with HSBC that Mr O brought his claim outside Visas 120 
day timescales and in the particular scenario he found himself in (paying a third party for a 
service he received before sending a payment onto the scammers), there was nothing that 
extended the time. I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by choosing not to process 
chargeback claims on Mr Os behalf on the basis that it was out of time and I also dont think 
he had any reasonable prospect of success. 
Fraud prevention
I dont think HSBC could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mr O lost. 
This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant 
reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
In my opinion, the payments here just werent sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or 
suspicious to reasonably say HSBC shouldnt have allowed the payments through without 
first getting in touch with Mr O to check everything was in order. They werent for unusually 
large amounts, nor were the payments taken in quick succession. Ive also noted that Mr O 
had recently used his Visa debit card to make a payment of £6,000, which is larger than the 
individual payments in dispute. I appreciate C is based overseas but I dont think this in 
isolation would have caused HSBC to be suspicious. Also, I cant see there were any 
warnings about C that ought to have concerned HSBC. I understand C were involved in 
cryptocurrency, but not all payments made towards crypto exchanges are a result of a scam. 
And in this case I dont think where the payments were headed ought to have automatically 
triggered HSBCs attention. 
This means that as HSBC didnt interact with Mr O at the time of the payments  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say HSBC ought to have been obliged to have gotten in 
touch with Mr O about them  Im satisfied HSBC didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payments before they were sent. 
My final decision
My final decision is despite my natural sympathies for Mr Os loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman