DRN-3486412
The complaint
Mr F complains Bank of Scotland unfairly applied their consent to let policy after telling him, 
when he was applying for a residential mortgage, that renting out the property would be 
possible.
What happened
In around November 2020 Mr F applied for a mortgage of around £280,000 over a term of 
25 years with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
Mr F completed the mortgage in early February 2021 with a five-year fixed interest rate 
product. Shortly afterwards, Mr F wanted to move away from the area and be able to let 
his property for personal and related financial reasons. He applied to Halifax for consent to 
let his property in March 2021. A few weeks later Halifax declined his application on 
grounds it fell outside their consent to let policy as he hadnt had his mortgage for six 
months.
Mr F was unhappy about the time it took Halifax to consider his application and that they 
then declined it. He said Halifax told him, when he was applying for his mortgage, getting 
consent to let would be a formality. Halifax acknowledged theyd said that, but still refused 
his application in line with their consent to let policy on grounds he hadnt had the 
mortgage long enough. Halifax paid Mr F £300 compensation. And they gave him consent 
to let in August 2021.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service as he felt he should be compensated for the rental 
income he could have had if Halifax had given him consent to let when he applied in March 
2021. Our investigator thought Halifaxs offer to pay Mr F £300 compensation was a fair way 
to resolve his complaint. Since Mr F didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to review. 
I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to the parties for all the information theyve provided. I may not mention here 
everything theyve told this service. That reflects the informal nature of this service and no 
discourtesy is intended. Ive thought carefully about what theyve said in coming to my 
decision. Although Ive provisionally come to the same outcome as our investigator, Ive 
seen additional information since he sent his view and my reasons are different in part. So, 
Im issuing this provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further 
comments before I come to a final decision.
Ive considered what Mr Fs said about other decisions this service had made. But I make 
my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint.
Generally, consent to let is a concession  not a right - intended for customers that let their 
property temporarily and who intend to re-occupy it. The offer letter Halifax sent Mr F for his 
mortgage set out clearly that the mortgage was made up of the offer letter and illustration, 
Halifaxs mortgage conditions and the mortgage deed. The mortgage conditions confirmed 
an application for consent to let was necessary and, if permission was given, it would be on 
terms that Halifax would specify. Halifax also provided an information booklet which 
explained Halifaxs permission was needed to let the property and how to get consent. I 
think the documents set out the information in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, 
as Id expect.
The offer and other mortgage documents were available to Mr F after the November 
2020 call, and before the mortgage completed. So, I think he ought reasonably to have 
known Halifax had a discretion about whether and when to allow consent to let, even if 
he wasnt aware of their policy not to give consent to let within the first six months.
Halifax have explained their policy of not allowing customers to let for six months is 
based on regulatory and commercial considerations. I wont interfere in Halifaxs policy, 
but I need to consider whether Halifax applied their policy fairly in Mr Fs circumstances.
Ive listened to the call Mr F had with Halifax in November 2020. Mr F asked a few specific 
questions about his mortgage application. The first of those was whether hed be able to let 
the property at some point in the future. Halifax acknowledge they gave Mr F the 
impression consent would be a formality. The information provided on the call didnt form 
part of the mortgage contract. But I can understand Mr F was reassured by what Halifax 
told him and I think Halifax should have let him know about their policy. What I need to 
decide is how to put Mr F back into the position he would have been in if Halifax had given 
him the right information.
Mr F says if hed known the position, he would have looked for a different residential 
mortgage that would have allowed him to let the property sooner or considered a buy to let 
(BTL) option. He thinks hes lost out on rental income because of what Halifax told him and 
should be compensated for that.
Im not persuaded, based on what Mr Fs said, that his position would be substantively 
different if Halifax had given him more information about their consent to let policy. From 
what hes told us, because of the pandemic, Mr F didnt know where he might want to be 
located in the future, and wasnt in a position to make any decisions about that, either at the 
time of the November 2020 call or when he completed the mortgage in early February 
2021. It wasnt until the end of February 2021 that his situation became clearer.
I appreciate Mr F didnt look into the detail of other mortgage options that might have been 
available to him since he was happy with what Halifax were offering. But I havent seen any 
evidence other lenders would have been able to provide a suitable mortgage with the 
flexibility on letting Mr F required. And Im aware some other lenders have similar policies to 
Halifax as to when theyll agree consent to let. So, I cant be certain Mr F would have been 
able to find an alternative mortgage on the terms he wanted. And even if he had, I cant be 
certain his application would have succeeded.
Im not persuaded Mr F would have chosen a BTL mortgage. Its unlikely a BTL mortgage 
would have allowed Mr F to occupy the property at all. He didnt know he wanted to relocate 
when he took the mortgage. Hes told us the factors affecting his decision about where to be 
located were uncertain because of the pandemic. And he didnt move out until September 
2021. A BTL mortgage would probably have cost him more over the term and, on balance, I 
think its unlikely to have suited his arrangements.Bearing the above in mind, I dont think its fair to ask Halifax to reimburse Mr F for any 
loss of rental income.
Mr Fs unhappy about the time it took Halifax to respond to his application for consent to let 
in mid-March. They told him hed have an answer within seven to ten working days. But   
Mr F didnt get a response until he contacted them at the beginning of April. I acknowledge 
Mr F was having to make some difficult personal decisions at the time in the middle of the 
pandemic, so I can understand things were stressful for him. I think the compensation of
£300 Halifax paid Mr F is fair to reflect the disappointment he felt when he found out about 
the consent to let policy and the impact on him of their delay letting him know the outcome 
of his application.
Considering everything, whilst I understand Mr F will be disappointed, I dont intend to 
uphold his complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Developments
Halifax had no comments to make on my provisional decision. Mr F made a number of 
comments which Ive carefully considered.
Hes clarified that, if he hadnt been able to get the residential mortgage from Halifax to fund 
the purchase of the BTL property he was buying, he would have got a BTL mortgage on that 
property, not his existing property. Hes calculated he would have been around £8,000 better 
off if hed done that.
Mr F says he couldnt move out of the property until September 2021 because Halifax 
wouldnt allow him to let the flat before then and wasnt allowed to leave it vacant. So, he 
thinks the point Ive made about that is unfair.
Mr F argues he wouldnt have gone ahead with the mortgage if Halifax had said clearly they 
would not give consent to let in the first six months of the mortgage. Hes unable to provide 
evidence other lenders would have allowed that since they dont publish their buy to let 
policies. And since he was happy with what Halifax proposed, he didnt follow up with other 
lenders. Mr Fs provided some circumstantial evidence other lenders have different policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr F for clarifying an option he would have considered, had he known 
Halifaxs position on consent to let, would have been a BTL on the property he was buying. 
And I acknowledge he wasnt able to leave the property he was borrowing against vacant so 
didnt move out until hed been able to let it.
Ive reviewed the evidence and Ive listened to the conversations he had with Halifax in 
November 2020. 
I acknowledge Mr Fs strength of feeling about what happened. And Ive taken all of his 
arguments into account. I have to weigh the evidence to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened if the Halifax adviser had explained their consent to let policy 
more accurately when Mr F spoke to her.
Bearing everything in mind, Im not persuaded Mr F would have decided to look elsewhere 
for another deal or that being able to let the property straight away was the deciding factor in 
him taking the Halifax mortgage. When he spoke to Halifax Mr F told them hed carried out 
research about rates available for residential mortgages and identified Halifaxs interest rates 
as competitive; he intended to use the money to buy a BTL property which he already had 
lined up and was keen to go ahead as soon as possible; Halifax told him they offered a 
competitive BTL mortgage which he had the chance to investigate further; he told Halifax he 
had no plans to move in the future. 
On balance, I think Mr Fs main motivation was securing a favourable deal on a residential 
mortgage for his existing property with Halifax. And whilst there may have been the 
possibility he might want to move at some point, it wasnt a certainty whether or when that 
would happen. So even if Halifax had let him know what their policy was, Im not persuaded 
he would have gone to another lender. 
I cant be certain, either, that an application for a BTL mortgage would have succeeded even 
if Mr F had gone down that route.
Considering everything, whilst I understand Mr F will be disappointed, Im not persuaded 
to change my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman