DRN-1681159
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold two Mortgage Decreasing Term Assurance (MDTA) 
policies with Critical Illness Cover (CIC) by Barclays Bank UK PLC as he was told he had to 
take out the policies to get the mortgage he wanted.
What happened
In 2008 Mr R applied for a mortgage, together with his mother, to pay off an existing 
mortgage in his mothers name and pay off some debts. They saw an adviser in March 2008 
and applied for a mortgage for £145,000 over a 35 year term. Mr R applied for the first 
MDTA to cover the mortgage.
The mortgage was refused but the first MDTA was not stopped. Barclays acknowledged in 
its Final Response Letter (FRL) that the first MDTA shouldnt have started and, believing that 
Mr R had paid the premiums until the start of the second MDTA, offered to pay £542 for this.
After the complaint had been referred to us Barclays said the only premium payment paid by 
Mr R for the first MDTA was the first payment on 1 May 2008 and that this was refunded the 
next day. But it said it was willing to stand by the offer it had made previously.
Mr R and his mother applied for a mortgage again in August 2008 and that application was 
successful. Mr R applied for the second MDTA to protect that mortgage.
In its FRL Barclays accepted the second MDTA didnt provide the cover Mr R needed 
because it provided too little cover  in that it didnt cover the arrangement fee of £995 that 
was added to the mortgage or the additional borrowing amount that could be taken out under 
the mortgage of £10,000. As the right cover wouldve cost more it said Mr R had not suffered 
any loss.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short he said the following:
The application for a re-mortgage was a joint application with Mr Rs mother but she 
wasnt going to live in the property and it is noted Mr G would maintain the payments 
so the advice about protection was only given to him.
To protect the borrowing the adviser recommended a DTA with CIC for £145,000 
with a start date of 1 May 2008.
The mortgage application was declined but the application for the DTA wasnt 
stopped and the first premium was taken from his bank account.
Only the first premium was paid and Barclays repaid this.
Another mortgage application was made in August 2008 and a further application for 
a DTA with CIC was recommended for this.
The second DTA started on 1 October 2008 and Mr R made nine monthly payments.
He had not found any documentary evidence to support what Mr R had said about 
being told he had to take out the DTA as a condition of his mortgage.The mortgage offer shows only building insurance was a condition of the mortgage.
A DTA was a suitable recommendation for the repayment mortgage Mr R had taken 
out.
Mr Rs comments about the information in the application being wrong are noted but 
Mr R was aware an application had been made as the policy provider sent 
acceptance letters to him for both policies he applied for.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. His response is seven pages but in large part simply 
asks various questions about the investigators reasoning. I have summarised what I 
consider the main points he has made as follows:
He was not provided with advice and neither he nor his mother were asked by the 
investigator about this so how has he concluded that advice regarding protection was 
given to him?
The salesperson told him that if he didnt take out the policy the mortgage 
underwriters would refuse the mortgage and that was the entire conversation.
The investigator said that the adviser recommended the policy but how does he know 
this as he wasnt there?
He has said Barclays mis-sold the policy and it says it didnt but the investigator has 
presented as fact what Barclays has said when he doesnt know with any degree of 
certainty whether a conversation took place or a recommendation was made and the 
investigator will never know beyond a reasonable doubt.
There is more reason to believe him than Barclays as it has already admitted it mis-
sold PPI to him.
The investigator refers to studying bank statements and concluded that only the first 
premium payment was paid for the first policy that started on 1 May 2008 but doesnt 
know how many accounts he had with Barclays or with other banks and it could be 
he set up a direct debit from another account after cancelling the first one.
If the investigator hasnt asked him or Barclays whether any further payments were 
made for the first policy how has he concluded no further payments were made.
With regard to the second policy the investigator has again stated that the adviser 
recommended this as he wasnt there and there is only Barclays version of events, 
and Barclays had already set up a policy he didnt need.
The mortgage offer the investigator has relied upon which shows the insurance he 
had to take out being buildings insurance isnt signed by him or his mother and there 
is no proof this is the offer they were sent.
The investigator has said the policy was suitable for him but that doesnt justify it 
being sold to him on the basis he had to have it and the investigator didnt ask him if 
he had other cover.
The investigator has to base his opinion on the different accounts given by the 
parties. In that regard there is no information that discredits his version whereas 
Barclays initially said he didnt have a mortgage before admitting he did; also it 
initially said he didnt have PPI before admitting it had mis-sold this to him; and it set 
up the first policy when he didnt have a mortgage.
As Mr R didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings and decision are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than 
not  based on the information and evidence provided by the parties. It is for the parties to 
provide the evidence they want me to consider. Mr R has questioned why the investigator didnt ask for further evidence from him but has 
not actually provided any other evidence. If a party has evidence they think is relevant to a 
complaint it is for them to provide this, as was made clear when the investigators opinion 
was sent and when the complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
The main issue I have to decide in this complaint is whether Mr R was told he had to take 
out a policy to provide life cover and CIC to get the mortgage he wanted. The only evidence 
that supports this is Mr Rs own statement that this is what happened. But memories from so 
long ago are unlikely to be complete or entirely accurate. 
I note Mr R has suggested that Barclays version of what happened is less credible than his 
for various reasons including; that it accepted he had been mis-sold PPI; it said he didnt 
have a mortgage, PPI or a life policy with the provider when he first complained; it had not 
stopped the first MDTA when the mortgage was refused.
I dont think the points he has made provide any evidence his version of events should be 
preferred to that of Barclays. I dont think any errors made in investigating his complaint in 
2019 provides any evidence that supports he was misled 11 years previously. Neither does 
the fact that Barclays accepted he had been mis-sold PPI - this is a different product which 
was widely mis-sold to customers, in contrast to life cover and CIC which wasnt. 
I also dont place any weight on the fact that Barclays didnt stop the first MDTA when first 
mortgage application was refused. I think it is far more likely this was an oversight rather 
than some deliberate act on the part of the adviser given it was likely Mr R would question 
why he was paying for the MDTA when there was no mortgage. I think it is of note in this 
respect that the evidence I have seen shows the premium was repaid the very next day. 
There is limited documentary evidence from the time of sale, which is understandable given 
the time since the sale. But Barclays has provided a copy of the mortgage offer that was 
made to Mr R and his mother. This shows that the only insurance that had to be taken out 
was building insurance, with the second MDTA shown as optional. I note that Mr R has said 
this document isnt signed. But he has not provided any evidence the mortgage offer he was 
sent was different and I think it is more likely than not that Barclays has sent us a copy of the 
offer that was sent to Mr R and his mother 2008. So I think he was made aware that the 
MDTA was optional and not compulsory. I think the adviser is also likely to have known that 
the mortgage offer would identify the MDTA as optional. Given this I think it is unlikely he 
wouldve tried to mislead Mr R when he wouldve known the documents he would get would 
show the MDTA was not compulsory.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied Mr R was led to believe that the second MDTA was a 
condition of the mortgage he took out with his mother. I think it is worth commenting briefly at 
this point about Mr Rs questioning of the investigators use of the words advice and 
recommendation. This is generally how life cover and/or CIC for mortgage protection is 
sold. Barclays hasnt suggested the sale was execution only  with the adviser just providing 
information - so I think it is reasonable to find the sale was an advised sale. If it was 
execution only then Mr R chose to take the policy out without any advice and Barclays 
wouldnt be responsible for that anyway. 
I note Mr R questioned the investigators reliance on the extracts from his bank statements 
that Barclays has provided with regard to his finding that Mr R only made one payment to the 
first MDTA. He has referred to the investigator not having checked what other accounts he 
may have had and suggested he couldve stopped the direct debit on the account Barclays 
has provided evidence about and started payments from another account. Firstly I note he has not said this is what he actually did or provided any evidence he did this 
or that he had any other account at the time. Secondly he has not provided any explanation 
as to why he wouldve stopped payments he had just started from one account only to 
restart them from another account. 
In the circumstances, based on the evidence that has been made available I am satisfied it 
is more likely than not that Mr R paid only one premium payment for the first MDTA, which 
was repaid the following day, so he has not suffered any loss in respect of that policy. I note 
Barclays has said that because it made an offer it will still pay this. If Mr R wants to accept 
that offer he needs to inform Barclays accordingly.
I also note that the bank statements show Mr R stopped paying the premium for the second 
MDTA in July 2009 while the mortgage continued beyond this. So they also dont support Mr 
Rs argument that he believed the policy was a condition of the mortgage. 
Although Im not satisfied Mr R was misled about the policy being a condition of the 
mortgage it is possible it was still unsuitable for his needs, so I have considered suitability  
as did the investigator for the same reasons.
An MDTA with CIC would generally be considered suitable for mortgage protection and I 
think it was a suitable recommendation in this case. Mr R has said the investigator didnt ask 
him if he had other cover. Firstly I think it is very unlikely he already had the same amount of 
cover provided by the MDTA, or over the same term. Secondly if he already had such cover I 
think it is more likely than not it was cover for something else. Thirdly Mr R has provided no 
evidence he had other cover. 
In the circumstances Im not satisfied there was any other existing cover that was suitable to 
protect the mortgage. 
The only issue with regard to the policy is that it didnt provide full cover for the mortgage. 
But this means Mr R paid less than he wouldve done if hed been given the right advice. So 
he has suffered no loss as a result of what Barclays got wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman