DRN-3372802
The complaint
Mr U complained about an instalment loan he took out with APFIN LTD trading as 
cashasap.co.uk.
What happened
cashasap.co.uk provided a loan to Mr U as follows: 
Date 
TakenLoan 
statusMonthly 
instalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1/6/2021 outstanding 6 £400 £158.83
Mr U said that he applied for several loans to try and get as much credit as possible to 
gamble with and the high number of searches should have shown on his credit report. He 
said he was unable to pay back the loan and his credit report was being affected.
When Mr U complained to cashasap.co.uk it didnt agree it had done anything wrong but as 
a gesture of goodwill it offered to write off 50% of the interest incurred on the loan. Mr U 
didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr U and cashasap.co.uk told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Us circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr U for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr U provided, or the information 
cashasap.co.uk shouldve been aware of, which meant that cashasap.co.uk 
shouldve taken steps to verify the information Mr U had declared
our adjudicator wouldnt have expected cashasap.co.uk to have known that Mr U had 
wanted the loan to pay for gambling if Mr U hadnt told the lender this information 
our adjudicator didnt think that the loan amount or the period of time Mr U was 
borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, was enough to show cashasap.co.uk he 
mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
So our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint.
Mr U disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
given the default/s on his credit report and the high number of credit searches (as a result of 
applications for credit) there should have been further enquiries carried out. And had 
evidence of his financial circumstances been requested, the lender would have seen that he 
was gambling significant sums of money and unable to afford the monthly loan payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr U that I've thought carefully about everything before coming to my 
decision and taken into account all the points mentioned in support of this complaint and in 
response to our adjudicators view. Ive reviewed the complaint independently and having 
done so, I've come to the same view as our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
cashasap.co.uk provided Mr U with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that 
it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Us income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Before lending to Mr U, cashasap.co.uk asked Mr U for information about his monthly 
income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit commitments and carried out 
credit checks. 
It recorded his income was around £1,950 and after looking at his declared monthly 
expenditure and the information it saw on his credit report, cashasap.co.uk said that it 
agreed to lend Mr U a loan it worked out shouldve been comfortably affordable for him.
This was Mr Us first (and only) loan with cashasap.co.uk. So I think cashasap.co.uk could 
potentially rely on the information Mr U provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment 
amounts and the loan term, and taking into account all the information cashasap.co.uk had 
on record for Mr U, including what it appears Mr U told cashasap.co.uk about his monthly 
income and what he was paying out, I think its fair to say this loan looked comfortably 
affordable for Mr U. 
I must be impartial and fair to both parties. Ive taken carefully into account what Mr U has 
said about the information on his credit report. But overall, keeping in mind that borrowers 
applying for this type of high cost lending might often be actively searching for other credit 
and/or already have other borrowing or even an impaired credit history, this wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending to Mr U if the loan otherwise looked affordable  as it did 
here. I think its also worth mentioning that a lenders credit checks might not show the same level 
of detail that Mr U might expect to see on a credit report and not necessarily be up to date. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. 
I dont think the credit checks that cashasap.co.uk acquired revealed enough concerning 
information for me fairly to say it should have put off a responsible lender from providing this 
relatively small loan to Mr U or that cashasap.co.uk ought to have been prompted to do more 
in-depth checks before agreeing to lend. It was apparent that Mr U had some credit activity 
but there werent any particular warning signs to show that he was currently in serious 
financial difficulty. 
All in all, I havent seen enough in the information that cashasap.co.uk gathered about Mr U 
to make me think it shouldve realised that Mr U was going to find it difficult to afford to pay 
this loan in a sustainable way. 
Im sorry that Mr U had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult 
for him. I accept that in reality Mr Us actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information cashasap.co.uk obtained. 
But its fair to say that cashasap.co.uk was entitled to decide Mr Us lending application 
based on the information I would reasonably expect it to have found out at the time. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for cashasap.co.uk to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr U wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. In these circumstances, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve required cashasap.co.uk to probe any more deeply into Mr Us finances or ask 
Mr U to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources (like asking to see 
his bank statements) to verify what he had told them (or not said) about his financial 
circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that cashasap.co.uk did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan 
to Mr U. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr U. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr U is still struggling with debt and would like to talk to someone about his situation 
or get help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free 
advice and assistance on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us 
a call. And I would just take this opportunity to remind cashasap.co.uk that it should 
continue to look for constructive solutions to assist Mr U if he still needs further time to 
pay and treat him positively and sympathetically in any discussions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman