DRN-4248133
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society removed third party access from her 
account. She is represented by her daughter Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B says she has had third party access on her mothers account for a couple of years. 
She says she wasnt told when the access was granted that it was for a limited time period 
and says Nationwide told her in November 2022 that it was removing the access. Mrs B says 
that no account review took place, and the lack of access could have caused problems for 
her mother. She would like Nationwide to apologise and pay compensation.
Nationwide says it changed its policy on third party account access and so wrote to 
customers in November 2022 telling them that access would be removed in two months, but 
they could contact its specialist team for alternative options. Nationwide says its records say 
that a letter was sent to Mrs W.
Mrs B brought the complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it up to Nationwide to decide how it operated third party access and 
thought it had told Mrs W about the proposed change. The investigator explained that we 
could only consider the impact on Mrs W as she was the customer and complainant here not 
Mrs B.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and maintains no review was carried out on the account and 
that Nationwide shouldnt be able to act in this way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
We are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to direct it about for example its 
commercial decisions as here, to change how it operates third party mandates or access. I 
accept that Mrs B is unlikely to have been told, when she was added to Mrs Ws account, 
that it was for a limited time period as at that stage Nationwide hadnt made the policy 
change. I am sure Mrs B appreciates that a business can review its procedures and if 
necessary, make changes.
The important point here is that Nationwide did tell its customers including Mrs W in 
November 2022 that it was removing third party access from its accounts. I can see Mrs B 
accepts she received that letter as she has told us that. And can see that letter gave details 
to Mrs B of Nationwides specialist team that could help with other options as well as giving 
two months notice of the change. So, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake by making 
the change and acted fairly by providing Mrs W and Mrs B with a reasonable time period to 
make alternative arrangements.
I appreciate Mrs B says the change could have caused difficulties. But I make clear that the 
account holder is Mrs W, and she is the complainant here not Mrs B. I have to consider any 
actual impact on Mrs W and am satisfied there was no real impact on her.
Overall, Im satisfied any business is entitled to change its procedure as here and that 
Nationwide fairly gave appropriate notice. It follows that I cant fairly order Nationwide to 
apologise for that change or pay compensation.
I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman