DRN-3427159
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
In May 2021, Miss S received a call from somebody regarding an investment opportunity.  
Miss S has said the caller, despite her asking, didnt provide details of the company they 
were calling from, but promised to provide a service where they would show and teach her 
how to trade in investments. Miss S has said that during the call she spoke to two or three 
different people. 
During the call, Miss S has said she downloaded an app that gave the caller(s) access to her 
tablet. Alongside this Miss S says she also provided the caller(s) with personal details and 
identification that enabled the caller(s) to set up two accounts in her name, with two 
companies which were/are legitimate crypto-currency exchange companies. 
Believing everything to be genuine, Miss S decided to go ahead and made the following 
payments using her HSBC debit card:
7 May 2021 @ 17:57 £200
7 May 2021 @ 18:51 £300
HSBC sent Miss S One Time Passcodes (OTPs) for each of the transactions, which shes 
said were given to the caller(s), enabling the payments to be made. But unknown to her at 
the time she had been speaking to fraudsters, who had control of the crypto-currency 
exchange accounts that had been set up in her name.
 
Miss S has said the duration of the call was very long and, after she had made the 
payments, when the call continued in length, she started to become suspicious. This was 
because the fraudsters hadnt given her a name of the company they were calling from and, 
despite her asking, they hadnt given her the details for the logins to the crypto exchange 
accounts that had been set up in her name. Miss S has said that on becoming suspicious 
she started to check reviews, while still on the call, and found comments indicating that this 
may be a scam and other comments that people had lost money. This furthered Miss Ss 
suspicions and shes said she terminated the call. 
 
Miss S raised the matter with HSBC, who looked into the concerns that Miss S had raised. It 
sent its final response on 9 July 2021, not upholding Miss Ss complaint. In summary, this 
was because it didnt consider Miss S had carried out any due diligence before going ahead 
with the payments and that she continued with the call, despite having suspicions.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Miss S then brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, our 
investigator considered that Miss S had authorised the payments. He added that on Miss S 
contacting it, HSBC could have raised a chargeback, but even if it had done, he didnt think 
there would have been any prospects of success. He said that because, albeit the money 
was passed onto fraudsters, the companies that had received the money initially from Miss S 
did provide the service offered (i.e. of receiving Miss Ss money and passing it on as a digital 
asset).
Our investigator also didnt consider the payments Miss S made to be unusual, so he didnt 
see any other reason why HSBC ought to have stopped them.
Miss S didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, she said although she made 
the payment she wanted to, the money was stolen, and she didnt get anything back or the 
service that was promised. Miss S told our investigator that she agreed that HSBC didnt do 
anything wrong in sending the money, but she believes it should repay her the loss, as it 
should get the money back.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say HSBC should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive considered whether the chargeback process was an option for Miss S. A 
chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, VISA. It 
arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able to 
resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme  
which are set by VISA  and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can be 
raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid.
 
From the evidence Ive seen the records show the payments went to genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange firms. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that with the information Miss S provided 
the fraudsters they were able to set up cryptocurrency exchange accounts in her name. The 
service provided by the exchanges would be to convert the money into cryptocurrency. The 
merchants Miss S paid provided the service asked for, therefore there are no chargeback rights under the scheme, albeit I accept Miss S may not have realised at the time this is what 
was happening. 
HSBC didnt receive a response when it tried to contact the crypto exchange company. But 
on the balance of probabilities and based on my experience of how these scams typically 
unfold, it is more likely than not the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere by the 
fraudsters who had control of the accounts. But this in and of itself doesnt give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim. I therefore dont find HSBC has missed an opportunity by not pursuing a 
chargeback claim, as Im not persuaded it would have had any reasonable prospect of 
success. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC ought to have intervened before allowing the 
payments Miss S made to be progressed. But having thought about this carefully, Im not 
persuaded HSBC ought to have intervened in these payments. Banks and other payment 
services providers are obliged to carry out their customers payment instructions. There is no 
dispute here that Miss S authorised the transactions (even though she was unaware at the 
time the funds would ultimately end up with fraudsters), so she is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
But that isnt the end of things, HSBC along with other payment services providers, should 
be monitoring accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of 
fraud. But I dont think there was anything so unusual or uncharacteristic about the payments 
Miss S made, that I think ought to have alerted HSBC that Miss S may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
I say that as the amounts werent so large or out of character, in comparison to how Miss S 
typically ran her account in the months leading up to the scam and Miss S had previously 
made and received payments to a crypto exchange company. The payments Miss S made 
were also going to companies that were/are legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges and buying 
cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity. When considering this, on balance, Im persuaded 
there simply wasnt enough going on that ought to have caused HSBC concern. 
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation that Miss S finds herself in and it is 
unfortunate that she has lost this money to a cruel scam. But for the reasons Ive explained, 
Im not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong. It follows that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask it to refund Miss S the money she has sadly lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman