DRN-2413238
The complaint
 Mr G complains that a car he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited (CBL) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for  the following 
reasons:-
Mr G took out his agreement on 21 December 2019 and first flagged issues with the 
car on 6 January 2020  so within a month of having the car. The issues included 
juddering on gear change, back wheels being buckled, the stop start function not 
working, the auxiliary not working and problems with oil leaks.
Although the car was repaired Mr G experienced the same problems. A report he 
arranged when CBL were unable to do so due to the pandemic confirmed faults with 
the auxiliary, the stop start function, an oil leak and vibration when the car was being 
driven. I appreciate this wasnt the fully comprehensive report CBL wanted. But given 
at this point it was unable to arrange its own report I think the inspection Mr G 
arranged was reasonable in the circumstances. And based on that I feel the repairs 
carried out were not successful given it lists the same faults Mr G first complained of.
The independent report CBL then arranged noted minor concerns with no evidence 
of point of sale issues. But it did identify a fault with the oil sensor that needed further 
investigation, the auxiliary wasnt working, and the stop start system was operating 
intermittently. Whilst I appreciate these issues might be classed as minor ones, they 
are consistent with the issues Mr G first raised within a month of having the car. 
Mr G  allowed at least one attempt to repair the car and paid £50  to balance the car 
which he was advised would resolve the judder issue but didnt. As  the issues he 
identified within six months of having the car  were noted in the independent report I 
am persuaded they were present at the point of sale and that its reasonable to allow 
Mr G to now reject the car.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Close Brother Limited should :-
End Mr Gs agreement ensuring the agreement is either removed or showed as 
settled on his credit file
Take back the car at no cost to Mr G
Refund Mr Gs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund the cost, on proof of payment ,of the independent inspection Mr G arranged 
(£65)
Refund the cost, on proof of payment, of balancing the car when the dealership 
advised this was needed to stop the judder but didnt
Pay Mr G £250 compensation for the distress sand inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman