DRN-3157606
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC Bank UK Plc passed payments they received by standing 
order from him in relation to a debt to a third party company without his agreement.
Ill refer to the third party company as C. 
What happened
Mr P took out a loan with HSBC in 2013. Mr P didnt keep up the repayments on the loan. 
And, in February 2016 HSBC wrote to him to say the arrears on the loan totalled just over 
£9,000. It seems Mr P agreed a payment plan with HSBC and set up a standing order to pay 
them £400 per month towards the debt. In 2017 HSBC sold the debt to C. HSBC have said 
they wrote to Mr P to tell him theyd done this and that he needed to cancel the standing 
order payment to them and set one up to pay C. Mr P has said he was abroad at the time, so 
he was not aware HSBC had sold the debt and that he needed to cancel his standing order 
payment to them. 
When HSBC received the further standing order payments they passed the funds on to C. 
When Mr P found out about this he complained to HSBC. He said they had no right to pass 
on the funds, as the beneficiary for the payments was HSBC not C. HSBC responded to Mr 
Ps complaint by simply saying they were legally entitled to sell a debt without their 
customers permission. But, they did not address Mr Ps point that they had no right to pass 
funds intended for them on to C.
Mr C complained to us. He again said that HSBC had no right to pass on funds intended for 
them to C. And he said he wanted all the funds returned to him with interest. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. This was because he thought HSBC were entitled to forward the money 
onto C to reduce Mr Ps debt. 
Mr P doesnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes 
said that a standing order is a regular payment of a specified amount from one account to 
another. He thinks HSBC amended the standing order by forwarding the funds to C, when 
they should have returned the funds to him. Because of this he thinks HSBC have acted 
immorally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst HSBC have not provided a copy of the actual loan agreement Mr P had with them, Im 
satisfied that they were entitled to sell the debt that Mr P had. This is because I have seen a 
generic copy of the type of loan agreement Mr P had with HSBC and this allowed them to 
assign their rights to third parties. It seems Mr P accepts this. I also accept, based on what 
HSBC have said, that they wrote to Mr P at the address they held for him telling him they 
were selling the debt and that he needed to cancel the standing order to them. Im also 
satisfied HSBC did not know Mr P wasnt living at the address they held for him at this time. 
I dont agree with Mr P that HSBC amended the standing order by forwarding the funds to C. 
The terms of the standing order didnt change. HSBC remained the beneficiary and received 
each payment as intended. What HSBC did was pass funds they got from Mr P, which they 
no longer needed, on to the company that they needed to go to, i.e. C. I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. After all, if HSBC had sent the funds back to the account 
theyd come from, C would then have not been receiving the money they needed for the debt 
Mr P had with them. This could have had a negative effect on Mr Ps credit record and, 
potentially, put him in more financial difficulty. I do think HSBC should have written to Mr P 
again when the standing order payments continued. But, this wouldnt have helped, as Mr P 
was not at the address HSBC held. 
In summary, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in passing on the funds they received 
from Mr P to C. And I dont think Mr P lost out or suffered any detriment as a result of 
HSBCs failure to write to him again when the standing order payments continued. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman