DRN-2757599
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the problems and delays she experienced when she paid a foreign 
currency cheque into her account with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs D had received a cheque from her father for €5,200. She intended to use the proceeds 
to repay an outstanding loan. She sent the cheque to Santander so that it could be 
deposited into her account.
Santander received the cheque on 11 November 2020 and arranged to clear the cheque. 
They also charged Mrs D their standard clearing fee of £10.
Mrs D contacted Santander on 8 December 2020. She hadnt received the money and 
hadnt heard any news from them. Santander were unable to provide any update on where 
the funds were. So, Mrs D told Santander that she was dissatisfied with their response.
Santander raised this as a complaint on 14 December 2020 and the situation was 
investigated by them. They explained that the cheque could take two to eight weeks to clear. 
They made attempts to contact the paying bank on several occasions for an update and to 
see if the process could be speeded up. The paying bank didnt respond to Santander.
So, Santander told Mrs D they there was little more that they could do. They suggested that 
she speak to her father so that he could contact his bank to either ask them to clear the 
cheque or arrange payment by other means.
Santander responded to Mrs D in writing to apologise for the service shed received and paid 
compensation of £250. But, otherwise, they didnt agree that they had done anything wrong 
in their attempts to arrange for the cheque to be cleared.
Mrs D was unhappy with their response. She believed that Santander shouldve done more. 
She wanted them to return the cheque to her if they were unable to clear it. So, Mrs D 
decided to refer her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint. She didnt 
think that Santander needed to do anything more here. Mrs D disagreed and asked that her 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Since Mrs D referred her complaint to this service, Santander have confirmed that payment 
for the cheque was received and paid into Mrs Ds account on 16 March 2021. But Mrs D 
remains unhappy. She says that because she couldnt repay her loan earlier, shes incurred 
additional interest. So, she doesnt think that Santanders compensation was enough here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To help reach a decision, Ive looked to establish whether the delays in the clearance of Mrs 
Ds cheque were as a direct result of mistakes made by Santander here. 
Its important to understand that a cheque is actually a written request, from an account 
holder, to their bank asking them to pay someone a sum of money. A cheque drawn in a 
foreign currency against an overseas bank cant be cleared through the normal UK bank 
clearing system. This is because the UKs system only operates in £GBP. Its also possible 
that the overseas bank isnt a participant in the UKs cheque clearing system. So, any 
clearance needs to be arranged directly with the bank the cheque is drawn on (the paying 
bank). This would normally involve physically sending the cheque to the paying bank who 
then, in return, send payment  usually electronically.
Santander have explained there are two methods they can use to do this, Negotiation or 
Collection. 
Negotiation involves Santander first converting the cheque amount to £GBP. They would 
then either pay this amount into Mrs Ds account or hold it in a separate account for an 
agreed period of time. The cheque is then sent off to obtain payment from the paying bank. 
This process is generally only used for smaller amounts. It also involves risk. If the cheque 
wasnt paid, Santander would need to recover the money back from Mrs D. 
In Mrs Ds case, the cheque was sent for Collection. This differs in that the cheque is sent to 
the paying bank first, asking for payment. Mrs D only receives the funds when theyve been 
paid to Santander. The currency amount is converted to £GBP at this stage. Because of the 
amount here, this is the process used for Mrs Ds cheque. Santander have confirmed this, 
and I think this was appropriate.
I cant see whether Santander explained this process to Mrs D at the time she deposited the 
cheque. But theyve since confirmed that the process can take two to eight weeks to 
complete. I agree that this isnt unusual. However, in this case, it seems to have taken 
considerably longer.
Santanders file notes show that Mrs D contacted them on a number of occasions to ask 
what was happening with the clearance of her cheque. She raised a formal complaint with 
them on 14 December 2020  just over four weeks after the cheque was originally received 
by Santander. So, this is still within the eight-week period mentioned by Santander. 
Santanders notes go on to show that they continued to make attempts throughout 
December 2020 and January 2021 to contact the paying bank for an update on the cheque 
clearance. But the paying bank didnt reply to Santander. I cant hold Santander responsible 
here for the failure of the paying bank to respond to their requests. Its clear that Santander 
had no control over this. So, I cant reasonably say that Santander had done anything wrong. 
It appears that they tried everything they could do in the circumstances.
Mrs D had asked Santander to return the cheque to her if they were unable to clear it. 
Unfortunately, this wouldnt have been possible as it had been physically sent to the paying 
bank who werent responding.
Santander did agree that there were some service failings in the way that theyd handled Mrs 
Ds complaint. To recognise this, they paid compensation of £250. I believe that this is very 
fair in the circumstances.
During our investigation, Mrs D and Santander confirmed that the money for the cheque was 
finally received from the paying bank on 16 March 2020. This seems to have taken an 
unusually long time. But it demonstrates that the paying bank had received the cheque sent 
to them by Santander. So, this goes to support my conclusion that Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong here.
Mrs D says that because the cheque clearance took so long, she was unable to repay her 
loan. So, she wants Santander to reflect the additional interest costs in their compensation. I 
completely understand Mrs Ds annoyance and frustration here. But, as Ive explained, I can 
find nothing to suggest that Santander did anything wrong in their attempts to clear the 
cheque and they had no other clearing option available to them. So, unfortunately, I shant 
be asking them to pay any more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman