DRN-4297984
The complaint
Mr P complains about a number of issues concerning his car finance agreement with The 
Asset Exchange Ltd trading as The Car Loan Centre (TAE).
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them. Instead I will 
focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided TAEs offer to put things right is fair given the circumstances.
Mr P has raised a number of complaint points. I would like to reassure him that Ive read and 
considered them but in this decision I wont address them all. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, I will focus on the issues I consider to be key to reach a fair outcome. 
Both parties accept in 2020, TAE agreed to several months of payment deferrals following 
Mr P being financially impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. The deferred payments totalled 
over £3,400. 
An arrangement to pay was agreed and Mr P made overpayments for some months. But on 
other occasions, he failed to pay the contractual amount meaning the account fell into 
arrears. In a separate complaint, an ombudsman has decided TAE acted fairly when it 
decided to offer to move Mr Ps overpayments from the payment deferral balance to the 
arrears balance so I wont comment on that any further as its already been decided.
The account statement 
Mr P complains there was a delay to receive the account statement despite his numerous 
requests since November 2022. I note this wasnt provided until January 2023 which is over 
two months after his initial request. 
Having seen the extent of the communication from Mr P to TAE, its clear this issue was 
causing him upset and frustration. I can understand why he felt that way, he was trying to get 
an understanding of the position of the account and the information he had been requesting 
from TAE wasnt forthcoming or clear. I think its fair to say following his financial difficulty, 
Mr P was actively trying to get the account back on track and stay on top of his finances. I 
find his request for the account statement was a fair one and I would expect it to be provided 
in a reasonable period of time. 
However that didnt happen. TAE has accepted there was a significant delay in providing the 
account statement.
The notice of sums in arrears (NOSIA)
TAE has also accepted when the account fell into two months arrears in July 2022, they 
shouldve sent Mr P a NOSIA as required by the relevant regulations. As TAE accept this 
failure, I dont find its necessary for me to comment any further. What is left for me to decide 
is whether TAE has done enough to put things right. In this case, I find they have. Ill explain 
why. 
TAE said as they didnt follow the relevant rules relating to issuing a NOSIA they had 
breached the contract meaning interest shouldnt be applicable during that period, nor could 
it be enforced. To put things right, TAE issued the NOSIA in January 2023, agreed to refund 
the interest applicable between July 2022 and January 2023 (around £1,100) and removed 
the adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. Given the circumstances, I consider this to be 
a fair resolution to remedy their failure. 
Im aware Mr P maintains NOSIAs shouldve also been issued on other occasions, namely 
November 2021 and April 2022 as the account was two months in arrears at those points 
meaning TAE should be refunding further interest. There has been a lot of back and forth 
between the investigator, Mr P and TAE about this particular point. I can assure all parties 
Ive carefully considered the evidence including the account statements. 
Generally speaking, NOSIAs are sent when an account is two months in arrears. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I accept around November 2021, the account was two months 
arrears however a payment was made within a few days meaning it no longer met the 
threshold for a NOSIA to be generated. Thereafter and up to July 2022, I dont find any other 
occasions where the account fell into two months arrears and stayed in that position long 
enough to warrant a NOSIA being sent. This is largely due to when Mr P paid payments 
towards the agreement which at times were twice a month meaning the threshold wasnt 
met. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied TAE has fairly determined the account fell into 
the equivalent of two months arrears in July 2022 and they were right in accepting a NOSIA 
shouldve been issued at that point (over £900 in arrears). In light of the same, I wont be 
asking them to backdate the refund of interest to November 2021. As mentioned above I find 
their offer to refund the interest between July 2022 and January 2023 is fair. 
The default notice
Mr P complains within a few days of receiving the NOSIA in January 2023, he received a 
default notice. I can understand why he wouldve been shocked by this.  According to him he 
was previously told the arrears were around £500 so he was surprised to see that number 
was over double when he received the NOSIA. It said he was around £1100 in arrears. As 
mentioned above, TAE delayed in sending him the account statement he had requested and 
had they done so sooner, I believe Mr P wouldve received the information and clarity he had 
been seeking. On balance, Im also persuaded had he been aware the arrears were so high, 
he wouldve taken proactive measures to reduce them. His prior actions including making 
overpayments support this. So I can understand his upset when he received the default 
noticed so soon afterwards. 
While I accept the same, that doesnt negates TAE obligations. The Information 
Commissions Office (ICO) provides guidelines that financial businesses should follow when 
reporting to credit reference agencies and recording defaults. Ive taken this guidance into 
account when looking into this complaint. It says a financial business can initiate default 
proceedings when an account falls into three months arrears and one is expected to be in 
place by the time its six months in arrears.  In this case, based on the account statements 
Mr P was at least two months in arrears in January 2023. Although he was making partial payments it may not have been enough to avoid the account falling into three months 
arrears. So it wasnt wholly unreasonable for TAE to believe the account would fall further 
into arrears so I find they acted fairly in sending the default notice. However I understand 
from Mr Ps point of view, the timing was poor given he had only received the statement and 
NOSIA a few days prior. He said this caused him worry as he was concerned the agreement 
would be terminated. 
Ive seen the correspondence between Mr P and TAE following the default. He was told by 
TAE if he wasnt in the position to satisfy the default in full, providing an arrangement to pay 
was set up, TAE wouldnt proceed to default the account. I find this demonstrates TAEs 
willingness to assist Mr P and to avoid the default which wouldve had serious consequences 
for him. I find this was made clear to Mr P prior to the default notice deadline of 3 February 
2023. Despite this, on 30 January 2023 he paid the required amount to satisfy the default in 
full. He said by doing so it caused him worry and inconvenience and meant his other 
creditors and priority bills werent paid. Im sorry to hear that was the case for Mr P and I 
recognise the worry it wouldve placed on him to come up with that money. However as 
outlined above, TAE did offer to set up an arrangement to pay to avoid the default. As there 
is no evidence to suggest Mr P contacted TAE to arrange this, I cant say they did anything 
wrong. 
Other 
TAE accept their level of service was poor.  For the reasons outlined above, I find their level 
of service couldve been better especially in regards to keeping Mr P updated about the 
account and what was owed. For this, theyve offered to pay £250 compensation. Given the 
likely impact on Mr P, I consider this to be fair in light of the circumstances. I wont be asking 
TAE to do anything above what theyve already offered.
My final decision
The Asset Exchange Ltd trading as The Car Loan Centre (TAE) has already made an offer 
which I consider to be fair.
So my decision is The Asset Exchange Ltd trading as The Car Loan Centre must:
-Refund to Mr P the interest applicable between July 2022 and January 2023;
-Pay £250 compensation to Mr P for the trouble and upset caused;
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman