DRN-3353666
The complaint
Ms R says Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon and in the main referred to as such 
below) took too long to process her request to make withdrawals from her personal pension. 
In consequence she incurred a tax bill for the 2020/2021 tax year.   
What happened
Ms R wanted to spread withdrawals from her pension arrangements over two tax years to 
make the best use of her personal allowance and so minimise her income tax liability. 
Withdrawals from two other pension providers were processed before the end of the 
2019/2020 tax year. But issues arose with making withdrawals from Ms Rs pension plans 
with Aegon and Ms R missed the deadline for her withdrawal requests to be processed 
before the end of the tax year. 
In summary, Ms R had requested retirement packs from Aegon on 2 March 2020. Her 
address was in England but she was actually living in Scotland and had made arrangements 
for her post to be redirected. When she hadnt received the retirement packs by 9 March 
2020 Ms R contacted Aegon again. Aegon changed Ms Rs address on the system. The two 
retirement packs were emailed to her on 16 March 2020. But multiple attempts to process 
withdrawal instructions over the telephone failed. 
Ms R made arrangements with her bank to collect a paper statement on 20 March 2020 (a 
Friday). Ms R had to drive from Scotland to her bank in Manchester  the nearest branch. 
She planned to then hand deliver the statement to Aegons offices in Edinburgh (which 
wasnt the same city where she lives) on 23 March 2020 (a Monday). Ms R was on her way 
to Aegons office on 23 March 2020 when she was told that the office was closed to the 
public and she couldnt drop off the statement there or at Aegons post room. 
Ms R complained to Aegon. In an email sent on 31 March 2020 Aegon said, when a claim is 
made over the telephone, Aegon uses a credit reference agency to carry out additional 
identification checks. Those checks had failed and Aegon couldnt say why. Forms had been 
issued to Ms R on 18 March 2020 to complete so that payment could be made. 
During a telephone call on 12 March 2020 there was reference to the end of the tax year 
being 5 April 2020 and Ms R having a couple of days leeway as the date that would be 
used for settlement was two days after all Aegons requirements had been received. Ms R 
wouldve (mistakenly) understood she had up to 3 April 2020 to complete the requirements, 
which wasnt the case. 
But Aegon maintained it was unlikely the process wouldve been completed in time even if 
correct information had been given. Aegon says Ms R was made aware on 12 March 2020 
that a bank statement would be required. It wouldve been reasonable for her to obtain one 
when the first credit reference agency check failed on 16 March 2020 or on 18 March 2020 
when she failed at least two further checks. Aegon only received a suitable statement on 7 
April 2020 and didnt receive the completed settlement forms until 17 April 2020.
Ms R referred her complaint to us. Amongst other things she said shed had to make a very 
large number of telephone calls to Aegon, her bank and the credit reference agency. She 
also said that, when the withdrawals were eventually processed, she was taxed under the 
Scottish taxation system. 
Our investigator issued his view on 18 February 2022. He didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he agreed it was unlikely that Ms Rs request wouldve been processed in time 
because of the issues with the verification checks. It had come to light through another 
complaint Ms R had made to this service that the address her bank held was in Scotland and 
the credit reference agency hadnt been updated. That wasnt Aegons fault. As a last resort 
Ms R couldve sent in her bank statement. But she hadnt done that until 7 April 2020 which 
was too late. The P45 completed by Aegon showed Ms Rs address in England. It was 
unclear why shed been taxed under the Scottish system. Shed need to take that up with 
HMRC. The investigator thought the £300 Aegon had offered for poor service was 
reasonable.
Ms R didnt agree. She made the following main points: 
Aegon was unclear about the deadline and gave different dates. Shed been told she 
had until 3 or 4 April 2020 but that wasnt right  the cut off date was 23 March 2020. 
She doubted that the retirement packs which went missing were ever sent. Her post 
was being redirected. In 30 years of receiving statements from Aegon none had ever 
gone astray. 
Thered been contradiction in what Aegon had said as to why the credit reference 
agency checks had failed. In the complaint response dated 31 March 2020 Aegon 
said they cant give a reason. Whereas on 24 April 2020 they said checks likely failed 
because thered been a change of address within the last six months. But Aegon 
cant be certain and the different first names may have been a factor. Aegon had 
changed her address on the system on 9 March 2020. She hadnt asked for a 
change of address and wasnt told that might result in her failing the verification 
checks.
She went from where she lives in Scotland to Manchester to get a bank statement 
which she collected on 20 March 2020. On 23 March 2020 she spoke to Aegon about 
dropping it off in person that day. She was 45 minutes into the drive to Aegons office 
in Edinburgh when she got a call saying no one was allowed in the building. The call 
was escalated to a manager who confirmed nothing could be done  the statement 
couldnt be faxed or emailed because 23 March 2020 was last day for withdrawals. 
The calls were between 1pm and 3.30pm. Shed been on time to deliver all the 
paperwork whether the deadline was 23 March 2020 or 4 or 5 April 2020. 
Two other pension providers were able to pay out despite having access to the same 
information  the same bank account, name and address history and credit reference 
agency checks. 
Ms R has health issues which Aegon is aware of. Her condition is exacerbated by 
stress. Shed been treated poorly and with a lack of respect by Aegons staff who 
arent properly trained, have no accountability and no sense of urgency. Aegons 
multiple attempts to verify her may have caused the problem. Aegon blamed the 
credit reference agency and it blamed her bank. She was stuck in the middle. None 
of Aegons managers took responsibility for the verification process to allow her to 
make the withdrawals in time. 
Aegons staff still dont know the correct final date to make a withdrawal. Ms R had 
called Aegon on 4 March 2022 (two years after the issues shed raised) and spoken to someone whod been involved previously and who was unable to confirm the final 
date to process a withdrawal before the end of the tax year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered each of the points Ms R has raised and whether there were any failings on 
Aegons part. Although Ive read and taken everything into account, Ive focused on what I 
see as key. Im not sure if Aegons records are complete. Aegon has provided all of the calls 
that could be found during the period 27 February 2020 to 23 March 2020. But it seems, 
from what Ms R has said, that there were other calls. Where, as here, the evidence may be 
incomplete or disputed, I make my decision based on such evidence as Ive seen and what I 
think is likely to have happened and taking into account the wider circumstances.  
While I note what Ms R says about it being odd that the retirement packs werent received, I 
dont think its going to be possible to reach any firm conclusions about if they were sent or 
not. Aegon says they were issued and sometimes post does go astray, including when 
theres a redirection arrangement in place. 
 
Aegon accepts there was a lack of clarity about what the cut off date was. Having listened to 
the recording of the call on 12 March 2020, Aegon accepts Ms R wouldve understood she 
had up to 3 April 2020 to complete the requirements, which wasnt in fact the case. It seems 
from what Ms R was subsequently told that the deadline was 23 March 2020. Ive 
considered below Ms Rs attempts to meet that deadline.   
 
Aegon has explained that, where a claim is made over the telephone, Aegon uses a credit 
reference agency to carry out additional identification checks. Its unclear why Ms R 
repeatedly failed the verification process. That might have been due to discrepancies in her 
address (including perhaps because Aegon changed it so that the retirement packs could be 
sent direct to Ms Rs Scottish address) or the slight difference in her recorded first names. 
And its possible that the multiple failed attempts could be a factor. 
I havent looked into exactly what happened and why Ms R was unable to successfully 
complete the verification process. Thats because, while I understand what Ms R says about 
not encountering any difficulties with the two other providers, each business will have its own 
procedures and requirements in place. How a business deals with withdrawal requests is an 
operational decision for the business concerned. As such, it isnt something this service 
would interfere in. For whatever reason, Ms R was unable to satisfy Aegons verification 
process and so Aegon was unable to authorise payment over the telephone. Although thats 
unfortunate for Ms R I dont think Aegon was wrong to refuse payment when Ms R hadnt 
been able to satisfy its verification requirements.  
As to what happened on 20 and 23 March 2020, as Ive said above, Ms R has referred to 
telephone calls which Aegon has been unable to trace. Ive proceeded on the basis that 
what happened is how Ms R has explained. 
Aegon had mentioned the possibility of obtaining a paper bank statement. I think that was on 
12 March 2020. Id have thought, if Ms R had requested a paper statement then, it wouldve 
been received by post in a matter of days, leaving sufficient time for it to be sent on to 
Aegon. But it may have taken longer. And Ms R may have thought there was still plenty of 
time for the withdrawals to go through. But, a week or so later, and multiple verification 
attempts having failed, getting a paper statement appeared to be a way round, albeit one that would involve considerable efforts on Ms Rs part - driving from Scotland to Manchester 
to collect the statement which shed then hand deliver to Aegons Edinburgh office.  
Unfortunately, Ms R was unable to drop off the statement on 23 March 2020. I can 
understand, given the very considerable trouble shed gone to, why she was very frustrated. 
But I can only make an award if Im satisfied that Aegon was at fault. 
Aegon has explained, when the matter was discussed over the telephone on 12 March 2020, 
Ms R asked if it was possible to hand deliver documents and Aegon confirmed that was an 
option. That was correct at the time. But, due to the rapidly changing situation and guidance 
surrounding the pandemic, a decision was made on Friday 20 March 2020 (communicated 
by email) to close Aegons office to all visitors with immediate effect. I dont think Aegon 
couldve anticipated on 12 March 2020 that things might change and very soon.  
Ms R went to a lot of trouble (and expense) in collecting the statement and she was en route 
to delivering it on 23 March 2020 when she was told that wouldnt be possible. So I can 
understand why she was very frustrated, annoyed and upset. And why that (coupled with the 
stress of the matter generally) is likely to have impacted adversely on her health. But, 
against the background set out, I cant say Aegon acted incorrectly by closing its office to 
visitors on 20 March 2020 with immediate effect and without notice. Aegons decision was in 
line with government guidance about Covid. The situation was unprecedented and things 
changed rapidly.  
Im not sure if Aegon was aware of what Ms R was going to do and that shed be directly 
impacted by the closure of Aegons Edinburghs office on 20 March 2020. But, even if Aegon 
had known that Ms R was collecting a bank statement on that date, I think the decision to 
close Aegons office wouldve come too late (the email was timed at 2.32pm) to save Ms R 
from making the journey to Manchester. At best it mightve prevented her from starting out 
on her journey on 23 March 2020 to Edinburgh to drop the statement off. 
All in all I think the timing was extremely unfortunate. I dont think Aegon is responsible for 
the inconvenience and distress that Ms R suffered in respect of this aspect of the matter. I 
cant say Aegon was wrong to close its Edinburgh office was it did. So the end result 
wouldve been the same  Ms R wouldve been unable to satisfy Aegons requirements in 
order for the withdrawals to be made before the end of the tax year.
Im sorry if Ms R feels Aegons staff have been disrespectful. But I dont think the references 
Ms R has cited really evidence that. I also note what shes said about her more recent 
enquiries showing that Aegons staff are still unclear about the deadline. But Im only 
considering what happened in March 2020 about Ms Rs unsuccessful withdrawals. While I 
agree it is disappointing if no lessons have been learned, that doesnt directly impact on the 
outcome of the current complaint.  
Aegon recognises that, in some respects, its service couldve been better. I dont think Ms R 
has suffered any financial loss. She was unable to make the withdrawals because she failed 
the verification checks. And Id agree with the investigator that Ms R will need to take up any 
issues about how the withdrawals when ultimately made were taxed with HMRC.  Shes 
suffered some distress and inconvenience although, for the reasons Ive explained and from 
what Ive seen I dont think Aegon can be blamed for what happened on 20 and 23 March 
2020. I think the £300 Aegon has offered is fair and reasonable. On the basis that sum 
hasnt actually been paid to Ms R Ive made an award in that amount below. If the £300 has 
been paid then no further payment will be due. My final decision
Scottish Equitable plc has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Scottish Equitable plc 
should pay Ms R £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman