DRN-2939948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service they received from esure Insurance Limited 
(esure). They are unhappy at the time taken for esure to replace the broken windows on 
their vehicle and poor service and communication.  
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S were on holiday in mainland Europe with their family when their car was 
broken into. Six out of a total eight windows were broken. Mr and Mrs S contacted esure 
who told them they needed to contact a local repairer themselves. esure explained to Mr and 
Mrs S they would only cover them for the glass repairs and wouldnt tow the car back to their 
home address in the UK.
Mr and Mrs S explained to us they had to contact the local glass repair business themselves 
and this was difficult as they couldnt speak the local language. They also had to clean out 
the car and remove the broken glass themselves. The local firm told Mr and Mrs S they had 
to wait for approval from their UK counterpart to progress the repairs and would contact Mr 
and Mrs S once they received this confirmation.
However, Mr and Mr S were due to return home (driving their car) on the Monday, three 
days later. Mr and Mrs S chased the local repairer over the weekend and on the Sunday 
were told the approval would not be authorised until the Tuesday, the day after they were 
scheduled to return home. 
As such Mr and Mrs S chased esure again and escalated the issue and esure arranged for a 
temporary repair to the car windows with Perspex. Mr and Mrs S drove from mainland 
Europe to the UK with the Perspex in place as the full repair had not been able to be 
completed.
Once Mr and Mrs S had returned home, a week after their car was broken into they 
contacted the UK based repairer and were told the glass they needed had not been ordered. 
Mr and Mrs S were told their car would need to be stored until it could be fixed and esure 
arranged this. The vehicle was picked up and taken to a different storage location than 
originally agreed with Mr and Mrs S, and which was further away from their home. This pick-
up happened after midnight a week later. The repair to the windows was booked in for just 
under two weeks later.
Mr and Mrs S corresponded with the repairer several times over the following month and told 
us communication was poor, with them having to chase and follow up on numerous 
occasions. Five days after the repairs had been scheduled esure got in touch with Mr and 
Mrs S asking if the repairs had been done. The following day Mr and Mrs S chased the UK 
repairer again and were told that three of the windows had still not been repaired as another 
order for the glass needed to be placed. This meant their car would be fully repaired 
approximately a month after it was taken to be repaired.  
Before their car windows could be repaired Mr and Mrs S were contacted by the UK repairer 
informing them the appointment would need to be changed again.
At this point Mr and Mrs S submitted a full complaint to esure. Mr and Mrs S told us that it 
took the advisor nine days to investigate the issues raised, during which time Mr and Mrs S 
had done their own research and found that the glass could be sourced by a local garage 
and delivered to the repairer for fitting. The replacement windows were fitted approximately 
seven weeks after Mr and Mrs S returned to the UK.
Mr and Mrs S have also told us their car battery needed replacing after they experienced 
trouble with it after their car was returned to them. Their car was serviced about three 
months before their trip to Europe and there were no problems with the battery but two 
months after their received their car back the battery needed replacing. There is no 
independent evidence to allow a decision to be made regarding the cause of this. 
esure reviewed Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and offered £200 compensation. Mr and Mrs S 
want significantly more compensation including a refund of their insurance premiums and car 
tax and a payment for not being provided with a hire car.
Mr and Mrs S also made a complaint to the UK based repairer who offered them a 
compensation payment of £450 in recognition of the poor service they received.
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and recommended a further payment of 
£150 for their distress and inconvenience, as well as payment for the phone calls Mr and 
Mrs S made to esure in relation to their claim and for the materials bought to secure their car 
while in mainland Europe on production of the receipts.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with these findings and requested their case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint as the service they received was very 
poor. I can see Mr and Mrs S felt our investigators proposed distress and inconvenience 
payment did not provide adequate redress and they felt their car battery should have also 
been replaced so they did not accept and requested their complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
I have reviewed all available evidence and I think our investigators initial proposal was fair 
and I will outline why I think that.I can see Mr and Mrs S had to contact esure and the repairer several times and it took 
several weeks for the repairs to be carried out. The communication they received was below 
what would be expected and they were not kept up to date. They were given conflicting 
information and had to chase communication themselves. I can see this would have been 
very frustrating and upsetting for them. So for this reason I think the further payment of £150 
in addition to the payment of £200 already offered by esure is fair. 
I can see no evidence the car battery was damaged by the repair work or by not being 
driven. There is no evidence provided for me to reach a decision either way here so I dont 
think it is fair to ask esure to incur these costs when there is no evidence to suggest they are 
responsible.
Mr and Mrs S also want esure to reimburse them for the money they have spent on car tax 
and insurance while their car was being repaired. I can see paying for this while when they 
didnt have access to their car must be frustrating but I dont think it is esures responsibility 
to reimburse them for these costs. Mr and Mrs S could have declared their car as off the 
road at the time but chose not to. I appreciate this may have been because they didnt 
realise how long the repairs would take but esure did not stop them from taking this action. 
Being without their car meant Mr and Mrs S were unable to make other planned trips and I 
can understand this will have been disappointing to them. However, their policy did not 
include the provision of a hire car as standard and they did not include this as an extra 
(which they could have chosen to do) when they took out their policy so esure should not 
have to provide any compensation in this respect. 
It is clear Mr and Mrs S incurred some costs relating to the materials for the temporary 
Perspex windows and the cost of their phone calls to esure and the repairer so I think it is 
fair that esure refund them these costs on the provision of the receipts or other proof of 
purchase.
Mr and Mrs S have received poor service from esure and I can see it has been a very 
distressing and frustrating experience for them. Mr and Mrs S have indicated they are 
seeking a considerably higher amount of compensation than what I propose is fair so they 
may wish to explore alternative avenues, for instance via legal proceedings.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in 
part. I require esure to pay Mr and Mrs S £150 in addition to the £200 they have already 
offered. I also require esure to reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the costs they incurred making 
telephone calls regarding their repairs prior to receiving their car back and for the costs of 
the materials used to safely drive the car home from Europe on provision of receipts. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 Sarah Scott
Ombudsman