DRN-3989805
The complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D had two large dogs. From about August 2020, Mrs D and her husband had a new 
large sports utility vehicle.
From about September 2021, she took out a comprehensive policy with UKI. The policy 
covered Mrs D as policyholder and her husband as a named driver.
For the year from early September 2022, Mrs D renewed the policy.
The policy had Guaranteed Hire Car plus  cover. The policy wording included (on page 25) 
the following:
Words with a specific meaning
Hire car 
A car or van thats a similar physical size to your car, if available, that is supplied to
you temporarily on our behalf by the hire car company.
Hire car company
The company that we instruct to give you the hire car.
Similar physical size 
A hire car up to a Class F for cars with 5 seats, or up to a Mini MPV for cars
with 7 or more seats. The hire car company will define the class of car. 
What well do
Guaranteed Hire Car Plus is designed to keep you mobile while your car is being 
repaired, by providing you with a hire car thats a similar size to your car.
Well always try to provide you with a hire car thats a similar physical size to your 
car, but sometimes one may not be available. We cannot guarantee that your hire car 
will be the same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status.
Unfortunately, Mrs Ds car was damaged in an accident. UKI arranged repairs. In late 
September 2022, UKI instructed a hire car company to supply a hire car. Mrs D complained 
that, although the company had available vehicles of a similar size to hers, it would only 
supply a smaller vehicle. Mrs D also complained about poor service and communication.
By a final response dated late October 2022, UKI upheld the complaint about service and 
communication and said it was sending Mrs D a cheque for £200.00. UKI turned down the 
complaint about the Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us without delay. She asked that UKI should clarify its policy 
terms or change the way it responds to claims. She also asked for compensation for 
occasions when she hadnt been able to transport the dogs in the hire car.
Her complaint form said that Mrs D wasnt escalating to us the part of her complaint about 
poor customer service, lack of call back and volume of calls she had to make resulting in 
considerable time lost.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the terms were clear which allowed Mrs D to make an informed choice of whether to 
purchase the policy. The investigator said that UKI had acted in line with the regulations.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
It is likely more often than not that a claimant would get a smaller car than the one 
that is insured which means that it sets incorrect expectations at the point of sale.
UKI gave instructions to the car hire company as to the class of vehicle.
None of the class F vehicles were as large as the insured vehicle. So there was 
never an intent to provide a similar physically sized car.
There is no easily accessible source of data that a member of the public can 
reference to confirm what size a class F vehicle is. So a consumer couldnt make an 
informed choice as to whether to purchase the Guaranteed Hire Car Plus policy and 
pay the additional premium.
UKI confirmed they had amended the instructions given to the car hire company. 
That would not have been necessary had the correct instructions been given in the 
first place.
It is reasonable to expect the insurer to own the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against a regulated 
financial firm. Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we consider 
compensation or other redress to try to put things right for that consumer. Its not our role to 
direct firms to put things right for other consumers.
UKIs policy contained a section headed Guaranteed Hire Car that provided a hatchback 
hire car. As an optional extra, the section headed Guaranteed Hire Car Plus provided a 
hire car of a similar size to the insured vehicle. Ive quoted the relevant section above, 
including the reference to Class F.
DVLA categorises cars as follows: 
Class A: Micro cars 
Class B: Super minis 
Class C: Small family vehicles 
Class D: Larger family cars
Class E: Executive cars
Class F: Large luxury cars Class S: Sports cars
Class M: Multi-purpose vehicles (i.e. MPVs) 
Class J: 4-wheel drive (4x4) vehicles 
So I consider that Guaranteed Hire Car Plus meant that if the insured vehicle was a car with 
five seats, then the hire car would be up to a Class F, that is a large luxury car. I can see that 
this works to the disadvantage of owners of large five-seat four-wheel drive SUVs. But I dont 
accept that the policy was unclear or set incorrect expectations.
Moreover, I find it clear that UKI didnt guarantee that the hire car would be the same as the 
insured vehicle in terms of its size, type, value or status.
Im satisfied that UKI gave Mrs D enough information to enable her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to pay the additional premium of about £20.00 to upgrade to 
Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover.
As UKI was responsible for providing a hire car, I hold UKI responsible for the acts or 
omissions of the car hire company. So  whilst Im satisfied that UKI instructed the car hire 
company correctly  I hold UKI responsible for the car hire companys confusion about the 
level of cover and the size of car it should provide.
I dont under-estimate the inconvenience to Mrs D of not being able to transport the dogs to 
training or to the vets or on weekend trips with friends. However, I cant say that the policy 
obliged UKI to provide a hire car suitable for two large dogs. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct UKI to pay compensation for Mrs Ds inability to transport the dogs.
Mrs D accepted the compensation for poor service and brought us the complaint about the 
Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover. Notwithstanding that, I find it fair and reasonable to keep in 
mind that UKI had paid Mrs D compensation of £200.00. Overall I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct UKI to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman