DRN-2597954
The complaint
Mrs M complains about information ReAssure Limited gave her when she missed some 
payments towards a life assurance and critical illness cover policy she had with them. 
What happened
In March 2014, Mrs M stopped paying the premiums for her policy. ReAssure wrote to her 
that April, trying to collect what was owed. But no payments were made. 
ReAssure sent a letter to Mrs M in May 2014, explaining that they wouldnt take any further 
premiums, and the life assurance and other benefits would stop. The letter explained that if 
Mrs M wanted the policy to restart, shed need to pay the missed premiums and complete a 
health questionnaire. 
In fact, the life assurance and other benefits didnt stop. ReAssure continued to fund cover 
by selling some of the investment that was linked to Mrs Ms policy. This was in line with 
what the terms and conditions of the policy said would be done for paid-up policies. 
A few months later  in July 2014  Mrs M called ReAssure about the policy. She says she 
was told she couldnt restart paying the premiums. And she says she was told she couldnt 
close the investment linked to the policy and take the value that held. 
ReAssure have shown us a file note for their call with Mrs M, which says Mrs M asked what 
premiums hadnt been paid. A letter  dated the day after the call  explained to Mrs M that if 
she paid the missed premiums, set up a direct debit to pay future premiums, and completed 
a health declaration form, the policy would restart. 
Mrs M asked again about restarting her payment of the premiums, after a review in 2016 
said it was unlikely her investment funds would keep the policy running much longer. 
ReAssure wrote a letter explaining that wasnt an option, as it was over a year since shed 
stopped paying her premiums. 
The policy continued to run, using the money held in the linked investment to pay the cost of 
the covers, and some administration fees. The funds ran out in 2020, and ReAssure wrote to 
Mrs M explaining the policy would therefore come to an end. 
Mrs M complained at that point. ReAssure didnt have any recordings of the call in 2014, but 
felt their letters showed theyd done enough to give Mrs M the right information at the time. 
But Mrs M didnt agree, saying she hadnt received many of the letters ReAssure said theyd 
sent her over the years. 
Our investigator looked at the case. He found ReAssure had followed the terms of the policy 
when Mrs M stopped paying her premiums. He couldnt see why Mrs M hadnt received the 
letters from ReAssure. But he was satisfied these showed theyd taken reasonable steps to 
explain the situation to her over the years. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs M didnt accept that view, so the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While it may disappoint Mrs M, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The key dispute here is about what Mrs M was told in 2014, after shed missed a few 
payments for her policy. I dont have a recording of the call shes talked about  
understandable given how long ago it was. So without that, the next best evidence is the 
letters and notes from the time.
Those letters show me that ReAssure explained to Mrs M how she could start paying 
towards her policy again. The informations consistent with whats in the terms and 
conditions for the policy. The letters have Mrs Ms correct address, and I cant see any 
mistake by ReAssure that explains why she didnt receive them. 
With that in mind, it seems more likely than not to me that the letter shows what ReAssure 
would have told Mrs M when they spoke to her. That gave Mrs M enough information to 
make an informed decision about what she wanted to do. 
I cant see what Mrs M was specifically told about cancelling her policy and taking the value 
of her investments. But I agree with our investigator that the yearly update letters that 
ReAssure sent her referred to the surrender value of the policy. That should have been 
enough to show Mrs M she could have that value, if she cancelled the policy completely. 
Again, I cant see any mistake by ReAssure that would explain why Mrs M didnt receive the 
update letters. So I find they took reasonable steps to give her accurate information about 
her policy.
I appreciate Mrs M is upset that her policy has now ended, having used up the value of the 
investment. But that reflects the fact she stopped paying the premiums, and never restarted, 
rather than any mistake by ReAssure. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman