DRN-4314383
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays caused by Advantage Insurance Company Limited
(Advantage) when validating his claim following the theft of his car, under his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was stolen in October 2022 from his garage. He made a claim to Advantage. His
car was found by the police and was subsequently determined to be a total loss. However,
Mr A says it took a long time for Advantage to settle his claim. He says he received no
contact from the business for long periods. When it did contact him, he was asked to obtain
information from the police that he thinks was Advantages responsibility. This delayed
progression of his claim.
In its complaint response dated 5 January 2023 Advantage says it cant offer a settlement
payment until the claim is validated. It says it is awaiting information from the police.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. In its submission to us Advantage says it needed
a crime reference number. It also needed confirmation from the police that it had closed its
theft investigation. In these circumstances it says applying for a police report can take
several months and involves a fee. As all it needed was the reference and to know the file
was closed, it says it asked Mr A to provide this confirmation.
Advantage says Mr A received an email from the police dated 24 November 2022 confirming
the information it needed. But he didnt forward this on for its consideration until 27
December. At this point it says it finalised the remaining parts of its investigation with Mr A
and settled his claim. Because of this Advantage doesnt think its responsible for any delay.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He says hed asked Advantage to communicate
with him by phone. Had this happened he says the validation process wouldve been
completed quicker. He says the lack of a pro-active approach delayed the claim by around
two months. Because of this our investigator says Advantage should pay Mr A £250
compensation and add 8% simple interest to his settlement payment.
Advantage didnt think this was fair. It says Mr A was aware of the information it needed but
still delayed sending the email from the police for over a month. It says it wouldnt agree to
pay £250 compensation but offered £100 for not contacting Mr A by phone as he had
requested.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially uphold 
Mr As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to uphold Mr As complaint in part. Let me explain.
Ive read Mr As policy terms and conditions to understand what is expected in the event of a
theft claim. Under the section on How to make a claim the terms say:
Theft, loss or criminal damage
If your Car is stolen or damaged as a result of crime, or if items are stolen from your Car,
report it to the police and get a crime reference number.
The terms also say:
You must co-operate fully and in a way so as not to compromise the resolution of your
claim. Examples may include providing information critical to the investigation and settlement
of the claim, providing evidence and attending court.
And under the General Conditions heading the terms say:
Give your Insurer all the information and help they ask for including any documentary
evidence to back up your claim. All information you provide must be true and correct to the
best of your knowledge.
I think the terms are clear that Mr A must assist Advantage in validating his claim.
The records show the claim was registered on 17 October 2022. On 24 October a note says
Mr As vehicle has been recovered and a review of the claim was required. On 31 October
an email was sent to Mr A confirming his vehicle had been collected and an engineer will
inspect the damage. Mr A then asked for named drivers to be removed from his policy at the
beginning of November.
I can see an email was sent to Mr A on 23 November 2023 asking him to provide a crime
reference number from the police, as well as confirming the status of its investigation. He
responded by email on 28 November unhappy with the progress of his claim, asking for his
car to be returned to him.
From the claim records Mr As car was recorded as a category-N total loss on 1 December
2022. An email was sent to him the same day to confirm this and again request the crime
reference number and status of the police investigation. Mr A responded. However, he didnt
provide the information requested. In his email he refers to Advantage waiting for a police
report and comments that it appears to think that everyone is lying. Advantage responded
by email to say it still needed the requested information to validate his claim.
The claim records show Mr A gave information showing hed contacted the police. But that
Advantage should request the information it needed directly. Advantage called the police on
7 December and followed this up with an email. It emailed Mr A the following day to explain
that it didnt need a report from the police as this would cause a long delay. It said all it
needed was for Mr A to provide an email, text message, or web chat with the police
confirming the information it had requested.
I can see an internal note dated 13 December 2022 that says Mr A shouldve been
contacted by phone. The note says an agent should contact him by phone to query the
outstanding issues. This was to include discussion about Advantages concerns with the
location of Mr As garage and evidence to show the damage caused when it was broken
into. The records show a call was made to the number Mr A provided, but this couldntconnect. An email was then sent asking Mr A to make contact.
Advantage sent further emails to Mr A asking for the information it had requested from the
police. The records show Mr A then provided an email on 27 December 2022 that hed
received from the police on 24 November. I havent seen the content of this email, but the
records show this was sufficient to confirm what Advantage needed to know.
In early January 2023 an internal note states the claim can be settled once images of the
garage have been received. This was required along with an explanation of its location. The
notes say the garage Mr As car was stolen from was an hour and a half walk from the risk
address. Mr A provided an explanation why this was the case, which satisfied Advantages
agent. However, the photos he provided werent of sufficient quality. It took several requests
before satisfactory photos were provided for Advantage to complete its validation. A
settlement payment was then provided in late January.
Ive thought about Mr As comments that the delays in progressing his claim are due to
failings on Advantages part.
As set out in Mr As policy terms, when a claim is made its necessary for Advantage to carry
out validation steps to ensure cover is in place and to determine the costs. We expect it to
handle claims effectively and to minimise any delays.
In this case as the claim was due to the theft of Mr As car, Advantage needed to confirm the
outcome of the police case. It also needed a record of the crime reference number. From the
claim records the first time it requested this information was on 23 November 2022. Its not
clear why this wasnt requested earlier. However, despite being in receipt of an email from
the police dated 24 November  Mr A didnt send this information to Advantage for another
month.
Additional information was also requested relating to Mr As garage and other items he had
asked to be included in his claim. Based on the claim records there were delays in Mr A
providing this information as well.
There are references in the claim records to Mr A asking for Advantage to call him. This
didnt happen until 13 December 2022 when an agent reviewed the claim notes. That said
the number Mr A provided couldnt be contacted, which is also confirmed in the notes.
Having considered all of this I think Advantage shouldve attempted contact by phone with
Mr A at an earlier stage. The records indicate he was confused by the claim process and
would have benefitted from a discussion to explain what was needed. However, the email
sent to him on 23 November 2022 was clear that Advantage needed a crime reference
number and confirmation the police investigation was closed. Mr A received this confirmation
the following day. I think its reasonable to expect him to have forwarded this email to
Advantage at this time.
I think Advantage is responsible for some of the delays experienced. In particular the time
taken to first ask Mr A for the police information. As well as the lack of telephone contact
which contributed to the delays. However, Mr A couldve cooperated more fully and avoided
some of the delays himself. I agree with our investigator that Advantage should acknowledge
its part in this with a compensation payment. But I think £150 is fairer in these
circumstances.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Advantage should pay Mr A £150 
compensation. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mr A responded to say hed suffered a bereavement shortly before his car was stolen. He 
told Advantage this. But says he still experienced five months of it ignoring both him and the 
police. Mr A also says he was underpaid for his car when the claim was eventually settled. 
He says he had fully comprehensive insurance, but none of his contents lost in the theft 
have been paid for. 
In his response Mr A says this is the worst case of discrimination in this day and age. He 
says he told Advantage he is slightly dyslexic. He says he was bullied by the business as a 
result of this, which meant it refused to talk to him or answer his emails. He says this has 
been the worst experience of his life. 
In a later email to our service Mr A says he was paid £4,900 for his car when it would cost 
£12,000 to replace it. He has also provided a screenshot of an online car review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry for the bereavement Mr A suffered. This must be a very upsetting time for him. 
I can understand why this claim has added to the upset he felt. But having considered his 
further comments and information, Im satisfied that my provisional decision was fair based 
on all the evidence and circumstances of his complaint. This means I wont be changing the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
Ive thought about Mr As comments regarding the time taken to progress his claim and the 
standard of communication from Advantage. In my provisional decision I said there was an 
unexplained delay in Advantage requesting a crime reference number as well as details of 
the police investigation. But there were also delays on Mr As part in providing information, 
despite having this in his possession. Its fair that Advantage compensates Mr A for its 
delays  but Im not persuaded to increase this based on his further comments. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr As view that Advantage bullied him when he made it aware 
he was dyslexic. More specifically, that it refused to talk to him or answer his emails. 
Advantage didnt contact Mr A by phone until around two months after his claim was 
registered. The records show that Advantages agents highlighted the lack of phone contact 
and made a point of noting this. However, it did send him emails clearly confirming the 
information it needed to progress his claim. Mr A was in possession of this information for 
around a month before he forwarded it on. So, although I agree that earlier phone contact 
couldve been made, Mr A had clear instructions telling him what information he needed to 
provide. In these circumstances Im satisfied £150 compensation fairly acknowledges the 
shortfalls in Advantages claim handling and communication.       
I acknowledge Mr As concerns about the settlement payment and the contents of his car not 
being covered in his claim. However, I can only consider the issues that have first been 
raised in Mr As complaint to Advantage. I cant see that these points formed part of his 
complaint. Mr A can of course raise these issues with Advantage. If he remains dissatisfied 
with its response he has the right to refer the matter to our service. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Mr A £150 compensation for the frustration and upset it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman