DRN-4089676
The complaint
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 complain that U K Insurance Limited hasnt accepted a claim for a 
stolen mobile phone under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 are covered by a travel insurance policy through a bank account. 
The insurer is UKI.
Mr W2 had his mobile phone stolen abroad. Following this, Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 made 
a claim for this under their travel insurance policy. But UKI said that the policy didnt cover 
any loss or damage more specifically insured by another insurance policy. As the bank 
account also included a mobile phone insurance policy, UKI said Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 
should claim through this policy first instead. UKI said that if the claim was unsuccessful, it 
could then consider the claim under the travel insurance policy.
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 didnt agree with UKIs position. They said that:
The policy didnt define more specifically insured. And their claim was for stolen 
goods whilst on a trip, which is covered by the travel insurance policy. Mr W1, Mrs W 
and Mr W2 say that as the loss is a travel loss, the claim is more specifically covered 
under a travel insurance policy, rather than a mobile phone insurance policy.
The mobile phone insurance policy doesnt actually provide a benefit, as the excess 
is more than the value of a replacement phone provided under the policy 
(remanufactured).
The excess on the mobile phone insurance policy is £100, whereas the excess on 
the travel insurance policy is £50. As a minimum, Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 say that 
UKI should pay the excess thats not covered by the mobile insurance policy, minus 
UKIs excess, so £50.
One of our investigators looked into Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2s complaint. Having done so, 
she didnt think it was fair for UKI to rely on the exclusion because she thought that in doing 
so, it didnt lead to a fair and reasonable outcome. So, our investigator said UKI should 
accept Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2s claim under the travel insurance policy.
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 accepted the investigators findings, but UKI didnt. In summary, 
UKI thought the term is clear. It said the loss of a mobile phone was more specifically 
insured by a standalone worldwide mobile phone insurance policy  whereas under the 
travel insurance policy it would simply meet the definition of a personal belonging, or more 
specifically a valuable.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in March 2023. Heres what I said:
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2s policy terms have a general exclusion for Any loss or damage 
more specifically insured by another insurance policy. UKI says this means Mr W1, Mrs W 
and Mr W2 should first make a claim for the stolen mobile phone through a mobile phone 
insurance policy.
Firstly, I think the above exclusion is clear. I accept that the loss occurred during a trip, and 
the travel insurance policy provides cover for stolen personal belongings. But fundamentally, 
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 hold a mobile phone insurance policy that covers theft  and the 
claim is for a stolen mobile phone. I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in saying that 
the loss of the mobile phone is more specifically insured by another insurance policy. So, I 
think UKI has fairly relied on this policy exclusion when declining Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2s 
claim.
As I think the exclusion is clear, and UKI has fairly relied on it, I dont think there are any fair 
or reasonable grounds for me to uphold Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2s complaint. I dont think 
the fact that the policy coverage may be less favourable in the mobile phone insurance 
policy, or because the excess is higher, means UKI should instead accept the claim under 
the travel insurance policy and disregard the exclusion.
Additionally, I dont think UKI needs to pay the difference in the policy excesses. The loss 
thats being claimed for is a stolen mobile phone, and that loss is more specifically covered 
by the mobile phone insurance policy, and therefore excluded under this policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 but based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
intend to ask UKI to do anything else in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 didnt accept my provisional decision. They commented on a part 
of my decision and said its wrong in law on that point. They said that:
Had the policy had an exclusion for property more specifically insured by another 
insurance policy, they wouldve accepted my provisional decision. But instead, it 
refers to loss or damage rather than property, which is different.
As a matter of insurance law and practice, an excess payment is regarded as an 
uninsured loss.
Therefore, the excess on the mobile phone insurance policy isnt more specifically 
insured by another insurance policy, rather, its an uninsured loss. So, they say UKI 
should pay the £100 excess on the mobile phone insurance policy, less its own 
excess of £50.
As the deadline to respond to my provisional decision has now passed, Im issuing my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im required to consider any relevant law, but Im not bound by it. My remit is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint.
Ive considered what Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 have said in response to my provisional 
decision. But I had already considered this point and addressed it in my provisional decision. 
The loss thats being claimed here is a stolen mobile phone. And as I explained in my 
provisional decision, that loss is more specifically covered by another policy, and therefore 
excluded under this policy.Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2 are correct in saying the excess is an uninsured loss. Theres no 
section under their travel insurance policy that covers the excess. So, this isnt something 
that they can claim for under this policy. But there are separate standalone policies that can 
be purchased to cover it.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same outcome, for the same reasons. Overall, 
I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W1, Mrs W and Mr W2s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr, Mrs, and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman