DRN-2981249
The complaint
E complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) moved money around its accounts and 
took funds without its permission.
  
What happened
Miss A runs a business as a sole trader under the name E. This complaint is brought by E,
represented by Mr K. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as has having been
made by Mr K.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 July 2021, to which both parties have responded. BOI 
agreed to my recommendations. But Mr K wasnt happy with the amount of compensation Id 
recommended, and he provided further information and comments for me to take into 
account. Ive thought about everything again and carefully considered all that the parties 
have said. I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome 
here. Ive explained the reasons for my decision below, using the same headings as I used 
in my provisional decision. Ive also set out the background to this complaint again here and 
summarised the findings from my provisional decision.
E has a current account and a credit card account with BOI. Both accounts have been open
for a number of years. There was a Direct Debit set up on the current account to pay the full
credit card balance each month. But Mr K said that the dates of some payments to the credit
card didnt match the dates of debits from the current account.
In October 2019, all Direct Debits from the current account were cancelled. I said in my 
provisional decision that this was at Mr Ks request, because he didnt want any money 
going out of the account while he tried to find out what was happening. But Mr K has since 
said that he didnt ask for all Direct Debits to be cancelled  only some specific payments, 
not including the credit card. Ill address this below. BOI confirmed at the time that all Direct 
Debits had been cancelled. But Mr K said that payments continued to be taken from the 
account and that BOI took those without Es permission. BOI said that wasnt the case. It 
said it considers the Direct Debit for the credit card to be a must pay item meaning that, if it 
fails, BOI is authorised to debit Es account to cover the payment.
There was a particular issue with the credit card payment in January 2020. Es credit card
statement showed a Direct Debit payment of £614.44 on 9 January 2020. This was followed
by a manual payment made by Mr K on 16 January 2020 for the same amount. This put the
account in credit, so BOI reversed the Direct Debit and showed this on the credit card
statement as a balance adjustment. But Mr K questioned where the Direct Debit had come
from because there wasnt a corresponding debit on Es current account. And, following the
balance adjustment by BOI, no funds were credited to the current account.
Mr K said he had made the payment on 16 January with cash over the counter at the
branch. But a debit was made from Es current account for the same amount on the same
day. So he said that E has paid the January credit card bill twice (once with cash and once
from the account) and is owed one of the payments back. This is in addition to the Direct
Debit on 9 January, which Mr K considers to be a third payment. He asked to see CCTV
footage of him paying with cash over the counter, but BOI said it no longer had the footage.
Mr K raised numerous queries with BOI about all the above issues and made a complaint.
He said that BOI had moved money around the accounts without Es permission and used 
accounts he knew nothing about. BOI said there was no evidence to support this.
During the investigation by this service, BOI confirmed that when the Direct Debit failed 
(either because it had been cancelled or where there were insufficient funds in Es account) 
BOI paid Es credit card bill from the banks own account (the sundry debits account). It then 
took the funds manually from Es current account at a later date to reimburse the sundry 
account. This happened three times - in November 2019, January 2020 and March 2020.
BOI said there isnt anything in the terms and conditions or elsewhere which gives it the 
authority to do this. But it said it regards the credit card as a must pay item. BOI said that, 
by settling the credit card bill from the banks own account, it prevented Es account from 
going overdrawn, prevented E incurring overdraft fees and prevented adverse 
consequences for Miss As credit file.
BOI said that it wouldnt have told E about the sundry account when Es accounts were 
opened. It said its a facility it uses to help customers when payments are late. It said its an 
internal process and isnt something it would discuss with customers.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit card agreement
BOI says that the credit card repayments are a must pay item. It says this means that, if
the Direct Debit isnt paid, the bank is authorised to debit Es current account manually to
cover the payment.
Under the credit card agreement, E is expected to pay the full statement balance each
month. If it doesnt, interest will be charged. I havent found any reference in the documents
to must pay item or what this means. Nor have I found any express authority for BOI to
take payments from Es account other than under the Direct Debit mandate. BOI now says
that there is nothing of this nature.
Right of set-off
In my provisional decision, I considered whether BOI had a right of set-off over funds in the 
current account. This is relevant because a right of set-off could have meant that BOI was 
entitled to apply funds from the current account against the outstanding credit card balance.
The terms and conditions of Es current account contain a set-off clause, which I considered 
in detail in my provisional decision. As I explained there, I didnt think the payment BOI took 
from the current account in April 2020 was covered by this clause. Thats because the 
clause allows BOI to use money from an Account which is in credit, but Es current account 
was already overdrawn before the April payment was taken. I cant say whether thats the 
case for the payment in November 2019 as I havent seen the statement which covers that 
period.
Even if the account was in credit for the November payment, or if the approved overdraft 
facility could be considered to be credit which could be off-set, I still didnt think the clause allowed BOI to use funds from the current account to repay the credit card. Thats because 
the clause only allows BOI to put the money towards an Account which is overdrawn, which 
isnt generally a term used in connection with a credit card account. And Account is a 
defined term within the clause which doesnt include credit card accounts.
Since writing my provisional decision, I havent seen anything which changes my mind on 
this issue. So I still dont find that the contractual right of set-off was triggered here. And, as I 
explained before, even if a more general right of set-off was triggered here, I dont find that 
BOI exercised it fairly. Thats because BOI didnt comply with the guidance set out in the 
Banking: Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS), which says that it should: (a) provide 
information to E about the right of set-off at least 14 days before it seeks to exercise it, and 
(b) provide prompt notification to E when it has exercised a right of set-off, including details 
of the date it was exercised and the amount debited from Es account. BOI did neither here.
Use of the Sundry account
BOI has confirmed that, on more than one occasion, it manually paid Es credit card bill
using bank funds. It says this intervention prevented charges being applied to Es accounts
and meant there was no financial impact or detriment to E. I find that, by BOI making the
payment from the sundry account, the credit card was paid on time and so E avoided being
charged interest on that account.
But I havent seen any evidence that BOI was entitled or obliged to do this. And I dont think
its something which a customer would reasonably expect a bank to do, unless it had been
agreed beforehand. Mr K is clearly unhappy about what happened. And, although BOIs
actions may have kept the credit card account in order, I dont think they had a positive effect
on the current account or more generally. Ill go on to explain why this is.
Reimbursement from the current account
The consequences of non-payment of the credit card bill are dealt with under the terms and
conditions, so Mr K was aware of those. But he couldnt have known that, if he didnt make a
payment (for whatever reason) BOI would effectively override his decision by making the
payment from its own funds and then paying itself back from Es current account on a date of
its choosing. This took away Es control over its own accounts. I dont think BOI was entitled
to do that and I dont think it was reasonable here.
BOI says it had Es agreement to pay the credit card balance each month from the current
account, in the form of the Direct Debit mandate. So it says that, by reimbursing itself from
the current account after the credit card had been paid from the banks sundry account, it
wasnt deducting money that E didnt know was due or acting without Es permission. I dont
find that to be the case. I understand BOIs position - that it carried out these actions with the
best of intentions, to help its customer. But I dont think that led to a fair outcome in the
individual circumstances here.
BOI says the first time it paid the credit card bill from the sundry account was on 11
November 2019. It then took funds from Es current account on 19 November 2019 to
reimburse the sundry account. BOI paid the credit card bill again on 9 March 2020 and took
the funds from Es current account on 7 April 2020. I dont find that these payments were
taken under Direct Debit mandate. Thats because I find that the Direct Debit had been 
cancelled in October 2019 and BOI confirmed this at the time.
I havent seen anything else which gave BOI permission to take the funds. Im not satisfied
that it had a right of set-off in respect of payments from/to the sundry account. Thats
because E didnt know it owed money to BOI in this context. If the credit card bill hadnt beenpaid, Mr K would have known that E owed money to the credit card arm of BOI, as it would
have been clear from the statements. But the statements were showing the credit card as
being up-to-date. Mr K was confused about what was happening with the credit card. But
there was no arrangement between the parties that BOI would pay the credit card if E
missed a payment. And BOI hadnt told Mr K it was doing this. So Mr K didnt know that E
owed money to BOIs sundry account. And BOI hadnt made a demand for repayment or
given E chance to reimburse the sundry account. So I dont think the sums taken were
necessarily due and payable at that stage.
But, even if a right of set-off did apply to sums due to the banks sundry account, I dont find
that it was exercised fairly as BOI didnt follow the BCOBS guidance referred to above.
Cancellation of the Direct Debit
I noted in my provisional decision that Mr K had cancelled all Direct Debits in October 2019. 
Mr K has commented that he only asked for certain Direct Debits to particular businesses to 
be stopped. Hes referred to an email from BOI which says it looks like the direct debit for 
the credit card was cancelled in error when you requested a direct debit for [another 
business] to be cancelled via Banking 365. Mr K says this shows that the problem with the 
Direct Debit was caused by BOI, not E.
It certainly seems as though there was confusion between the parties over the cancellation 
of the Direct Debits and who had instigated this. But my provisional findings were based on 
evidence which Ive shared with Mr K showing that Miss A sent a message to BOI on 10 
October 2019 asking it to stop all Direct Debits on the current account until further notice. 
BOI responded on 15 October 2019 saying it had cancelled all Direct Debits on the account. 
So, although I realise this is at odds with what a member of BOIs staff told Mr K in an email 
the following June, Im satisfied that the Direct Debits were cancelled in October 2019 at Es 
request. I think that was a reasonable approach by E, given the confusion about payments 
from the account and Mr Ks desire to get to the bottom of that. 
I think the key issue here is not so much who initiated the cancellation of the Direct Debits 
but the fact that, having said it had cancelled these payments, BOI later told Mr K that it 
wasnt possible to cancel the Direct Debit for the credit card and effectively overruled this 
request by taking funds manually. In a letter dated 25 June 2020, BOI said that the Direct 
Debit for the credit card couldnt be cancelled and referred to a clause in the credit card 
agreement to support this.
The clause quoted in the letter differs slightly from the wording in the agreement Ive seen.
But I dont think in either case it means that the Direct Debit cant be cancelled. The Direct
Debit guarantee expressly says You can cancel a Direct Debit at any time by simply
contacting your bank or building society. And I dont find that the clause gives BOI
permission to take the payment in any event. So I think the information in the letter to E was
inaccurate, and it didnt explain what had actually happened - that payment had been made
from the sundry account and then reimbursed manually from the current account.
The January 2020 payment
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the Direct Debit entry on the February credit
card statement (showing a payment of £614.44 made on 9 January 2020) is actually the
payment from BOIs sundry account. The credit on 16 January 2020 (described on the
statement as cash/cheque payment) is the manual payment Mr K made in the branch.
Its a big point of difference between the parties as to how the manual payment was made.
Mr K says he came into the branch carrying cash of his own, which hadnt come from Esaccount. He says he didnt use Es debit card in the branch that day. But BOI says that Es
card was used at the counter to withdraw funds from the current account and pay the credit
card. As both accounts are in Es name, BOI says that the transaction was in reality a
transfer between two linked accounts, rather than a cash withdrawal, as no physical cash
was withdrawn and re-credited.
BOI has provided evidence that a transaction was made on Es debit card, debiting the
current account by £614.44 on 16 January 2020 in the branch. The evidence includes the
branch copy of a receipt generated by this transaction. And BOI has provided the credit slip
showing the funds being credited to the credit card account. BOI has also provided evidence
of all the transactions in the branch that day where physical cash was handed over the
counter. This doesnt include a transaction for E. This evidence shows that Es
card was used in the branch that day to withdraw £614.44.
I said in my provisional decision that I dont disbelieve Mr K when he says he didnt use the 
card that day. But I thought it possible that his recollection of events has faded over time or 
he has perhaps confused that day with another occasion when he took cash into the branch. 
Mr K has responded to this and I know he feels very strongly about this issue. He is adamant 
that he took cash into the branch and that the credit card bill wasnt paid from the current 
account. He has also pointed out inconsistencies in BOIs stance on this issue. I can see that 
the banks response to this point hasnt always been clear  at times it has suggested that 
Mr K used a cash point to withdraw the funds before approaching the counter, at others it 
said he completed all the transactions at the counter. But I find that BOI has consistently 
said that the funds were withdrawn from the current account by a card transaction that day.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and I reiterate that I dont disbelieve him. But, as the evidence is 
inconsistent and incomplete here, I have to make a decision on the balance of probabilities. 
That is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances. On this point, I am more persuaded by
the evidence of BOI. So on balance I find that the manual credit card payment was made 
using the card in the branch.
It follows that I find the debit to Es current account on 16 January 2020 to be correct. And I
dont find that E paid the January credit card bill twice, as I dont find that a cash payment
was made. So I dont think E is due a refund of £614.44.
The credit card balance
BOIs sundry payment was made to the credit card on 9 January 2020. Mr Ks payment was
made on 16 January 2020. At that point, the account went into credit, so BOI debited
£614.44 and returned it to the branchs sundry account. But this didnt happen until 12
February 2020. BOI says this adjustment was made manually, after the February 2020
statement had been produced. I dont think it was reasonable for BOI to take this long to
adjust the account. Ill explain why.
I think the delay in reversing the sundry payment put the credit card account in a false
position. It meant that E didnt have to pay anything towards the February statement,
because the account was in credit at that point. But, if the adjustment had been made as
soon as Mr Ks payment was received, a payment of £131.50 would have fallen due on the
February statement. The March credit card statement amount would then have been
£706.91, not £838.41.
BOI accepts this but says it hasnt requested repayment of more than E actually spent. I find
that to be correct. But I still think the delay in making the adjustment had a negative impact
for E, as a larger sum suddenly became due at once rather than the repayments being morestaggered. It also caused a great deal of confusion for Mr K as he couldnt reconcile the
payments, particularly as it hadnt been explained to him at that point that BOI had made a
payment from its sundry account and paid itself back.
Lack of explanation from BOI
That brings me on to the way BOI dealt with Es queries and concerns. Given the amount of
contact between Mr K and BOI and the number of queries Mr K raised, I think BOI missed
many opportunities to explain the actions it had taken regarding Es accounts. And I think
there was a lack of transparency in the way it responded to Mr Ks queries. He was
concerned from the outset that the bank had been taking payments and moving money
without Es permission. BOI denied this. But it didnt tell Mr K that it had been paying the
credit card from bank funds, then taking payment from the current account at a later date. I
havent seen any satisfactory explanation for why it didnt tell him. Understandably, this led
to suspicion and mistrust on the part of Mr K about how the bank was handling Es funds.
Negative impact on E
Mr K has emphasised the negative impact all this had on Miss A and E. BOI says it took the 
steps it did for Es benefit and that it didnt charge E anything for doing so. I have no reason 
to doubt that the branch staff intended to help E by taking these steps. But I think it was 
beyond the banks remit to do this. And, even though it meant no interest was applied to the 
credit card account, I think there was a detriment to E.
It had a hugely negative impact on the trust and confidence at the heart of the banking
relationship. And I think this was made worse by the fact that BOI didnt explain to E what it
had been doing, even when Mr K queried the transactions.
BOI says the use of the sundry account is an internal matter which isnt relevant to Es
complaint. But I think it goes to the heart of Es complaint. It was a unilateral decision by BOI
to pay Es credit card, then take funds from Es current account on a date of BOIs choosing,
without Es agreement or any other clear entitlement to do so and without notifying E.
By taking the payments despite the Direct Debit having been cancelled, BOI increased the
indebtedness on the current account. I understand that the payment on 7 April 2020 took the
account balance over the agreed overdraft limit, giving rise to associated interest and
charges. Im not sure if that was also the case for the November 2019 payment as I havent
seen the statement from that time.
I realise that, if the credit card hadnt been paid, E would have incurred charges on that
account. But I find that it was Es choice to make, whether to incur interest and/or charges on
the credit card or whether to pay the credit card and exceed the overdraft limit on the current
account, incurring interest and charges there. Alternatively, E may have been in a position to
pay the credit card from other funds, not from the current account. Mr K says that this was 
the case. But, by acting as it did, BOI took this choice away from E. Through its lack of 
communication and explanation, BOI also caused a great deal of distress and confusion to 
Mr K and Miss A about the accounts.
  
Putting things right
As I find that the payments were taken unfairly, I dont think E should be out of pocket as a
result of them. But I have to be impartial, and I recognise that there was an obligation on E to
maintain payments to the credit card account. To the extent that the payments from the
current account were within the agreed overdraft facility, it was likely less costly for E to keep
up to date with the higher interest credit card account than for the current account to beoverdrawn. So I think it was in Es best interests for the credit card account to be maintained.
For these reasons, Im not going to ask BOI to refund the payments themselves. I think the
fair outcome would be for BOI to refund all interest and charges associated with the
payments it took from the current account to reimburse the sundry account - that is, the
payments on 19 November 2019 and 7 April 2020. Where the payments caused the account
to exceed the overdraft limit on the current account, BOI should ensure that there are no
adverse consequences for E as a result of this. And if BOI has made any adverse reports to
the credit reference agencies which arise from these payments, those adverse entries
should also be removed.
In addition, I think a compensation payment is warranted here. That is to recognise the fact
that BOI acted outside the terms and conditions of Es accounts. It effectively over-rode Es
instruction to cancel the Direct Debit, paid the credit card without Es authority, took money
from the current account without the right to do so (or, alternatively, without giving E the
appropriate notice or information about any right it may have had to do so), gave E
inaccurate information about its right to do this and wasnt transparent about the way it had
operated the accounts, despite repeated queries from Mr K. Hes had to pursue the
complaint all the way to this stage to achieve a full explanation. I dont think that should have
been necessary and it has prolonged the negative impact of the situation.
As E is a sole trader, I can make an award of compensation for the trouble and upset it
experienced as a result of BOIs actions, which I think was significant here. In my provisional 
decision, I recommended compensation of £350.00. BOI has agreed to pay this, but Mr K 
doesnt think its enough to reflect all the problems and distress this situation has caused 
from 2019 to date. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ks comments on this. Its very difficult to put a monetary value 
on the distress and inconvenience caused by a situation like this. But our awards arent 
intended to punish a business. Rather, they try to reflect the impact of the situation on the 
customer and put that right, so far as possible. Mr K also says he has spent a lot of time 
dealing with this issue. Ive taken that into account, but we dont generally award 
compensation for specific amounts of a customers time. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but, in 
the circumstances here, I still think £350.00 is a fair amount of compensation. BOI has said 
that it would like Miss A to participate in an account review following this, with a view to 
bringing the account back in order. I think thats reasonable.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc should:
refund all interest and charges arising from the payments it took from Es current
account on 19 November 2019 and 7 April 2020;
ensure there are no adverse consequences for E as a result of these payments
causing Es current account balance to exceed the overdraft limit;
ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse entries from E or Miss As
credit file which arise from these payments; and
pay compensation of £350.00 to E.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Katy KiddOmbudsman