DRN-1909751
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Citibank Europe plc processed a payment for £3,000 twice.
What happened
Mr C tried to make a payment for £3,000 in April 2019, but he received a message from 
Citibank that the transaction hadn't gone through. Mr C made the payment again and then 
found out the first payment had been successful. He also makes a complaint about how 
Citibank dealt with a chargeback. Mr C says it took too long for the money to be refunded.
Citibank accepts it made a mistake by processing the payment twice. It says it tried to 
recover the money from the beneficiary of the £3,000 but there was insufficient money in the 
account to allow the return. Citibank says it refunded the money in August 2019 and has 
offered £250 compensation for the delay and for what took place. It says it dealt 
appropriately with the chargeback. It also says that Mr C made further payments to the 
beneficiary and told it he didn't wish to ask the beneficiary for his money back. It says Mr C 
hasn't mitigated his loss or explained why he didn't consider, not making a further payment. 
Citibank says Mr C hasn't explained if he has received the money back directly or if he 
entered into an agreement with the beneficiary.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and says the mistake meant he paid just over £100 in 
overdraft costs and would like that refunded. Our investigator upheld Mr C's complaint in part 
and thought Citibank should pay the overdraft cost of £100 in addition to the compensation 
£250, as it was its mistake that led to the overdraft fees. The investigator thought it had dealt 
fairly with the chargeback.
Mr C has accepted that view but Citibank says that its compensation offer takes account of 
the overdraft costs .
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said as follows.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I came to the provisional view that 
Citibank  made a fair and reasonable offer of £250 compensation in addition to the refund of 
the £3,000. I could see that Mr C didn't dispute the investigator's findings about the 
chargeback, and so I just dealt with the question of the overdraft charge of £100.
 I said there was no question here that Citibank made a mistake that meant Mr C made the 
payment of £3,000 twice. I could see that Citibank tried to return the money, but the problem 
was caused by the beneficiary taking the money out of the account. So I didn't think Citibank 
was responsible for all of the delay and could see that it fairly agreed to refund Mr C the 
money. I appreciated that Mr C was without the £3,000 for about four months. But I was satisfied that Citibank  apologised for what took place and  offered what I thought was fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation.
I thought Citibank was entitled to question if Mr C has received the £3,000 back from the 
beneficiary or if an agreement had been reached between them. I said that as Mr C has 
continued to make payments to the same beneficiary and I didn't think had explained why 
that was the case or why he hadn't asked the beneficiary for a refund of the money he 
overpaid. So my provisional view was that Mr C hadn't mitigated his loss and so it would be 
unfair to order Citibank to pay for Mr C's overdraft costs in these circumstances. I accepted 
the position would be different if this was a one off payment, but for the reasons I explained -
I was satisfied it wasn't.
Citibank hasn't replied to my provisional view and Mr C has accepted it.
My findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion that I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Citibank has agreed to pay £250 compensation which I find is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Citibank Europe plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £250 
compensation. Mr C's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman