DRN-3875596
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Claims Experts Ltd trading as Impakt Claims (IC)  have asked him 
to pay an unreasonable fee for work theyve done for a mis-sold loan claim.
What happened
In early November 2020, Mr B signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing IC to pursue a 
mis-sold loan claim on his behalf with a lender Ill call A. Mr Bs claim was successful, but 
he said the success of the claim was because of the involvement of another claims 
management company (CMC). He didnt accept IC could charge their success fee. After 
complaining to IC it was agreed that they would charge Mr B a reasonable fee for the work 
theyd done up to the success of the claim.
IC sent Mr B an invoice for £890, but Mr B said this was excessive given ICs involvement 
was over a short period of time. He complained again to IC. 
IC said the fee was reasonable and recognised the amount of work done by them. Mr B 
didnt agree and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked IC for an itemised breakdown of the fee. IC provided an invoice 
outlining how the fee had been calculated. Our investigator said this didnt show what work 
had been done. He said a reasonable amount would be 50% of the fee IC had asked Mr B to 
pay £445.
IC didnt agree they reiterated that theyd done the work and Mr Bs claim had been 
successful. And charging 7.3% of the compensation hed been awarded was reasonable, 
given Mr B had instructed them to pursue his mis-sold loan claim. And their fee for a 
successful claim ranged from 24% to 30% of the compensation Mr B would have been 
awarded. IC asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In reaching my decision I wont comment about whether IC could have charged Mr B a fee 
for his successful claim as this has been the subject of a previous complaint. And a final 
decision was issued and accepted.
It's not in dispute that Mr B instructed IC to pursue a claim against A on his behalf. Ive 
seen the LoA which authorised IC to complete this work. And Im satisfied Mr B was aware 
of the potential fee(s) hed be charged if a claim was successful or he cancelled the 
agreement with IC.  It has been accepted that IC can charge Mr B a reasonable fee for the 
work they did for him. IC has charged Mr B £890 for this work.  What I need to determine is 
whether this amount is fair and reasonable.
ICs terms and conditions say:
If the contract is cancelled AFTER the 'cooling off' period but BEFORE a
compensation offer is received then We will charge a reasonable fee to cover the
cost of work undertake up until that point. An itemised bill detailing the regulated
claims management services provided and how the fees have been calculated will
be provided prior to request for any payment of these cancellation fees.
The terms and conditions dont provide a monetary example of the costs associated with the 
administration of the claim. The terms and conditions only say a reasonable fee will be 
charged to cover the cost of the work. which is subjective without a detailed breakdown of 
each item.
IC has provided a breakdown of the fee theyve charged which shows hours worked and an 
hourly rate for work done by Director A  5.75 hours at £50 per hour, and Director B  
7.25 hours at £50 per hour. And a charge of £20 for 12 communications they said were sent. 
In total a fee of £890. While this invoice provides some detail, I dont think it itemises the 
work thats been done and by whom.
So, Ive focused on the work IC has shown that theyve done for Mr Bs claim.
The LoA was signed by Mr B at the beginning of November 2020. And I can see that the 
next day A emailed IC to tell them another CMC was involved. Mr B also confirmed this to 
IC. Mr B was advised by IC to resolve the issue to switch his authority to them, which he 
sent IC confirmation of. Mr Bs claim was submitted by B on 11 November 2020.
From the evidence I can see Mr B was sent emails about the need for the previous CMCs 
authority to be removed and notifications that his claim had been successful and to check his 
account. In total I make this five sent communications. IC has noted that they tried to call    
Mr B, leaving him a voicemail message, emailed him and sent SMS messages for him to 
contact them after his claim was successful. But I havent seen any evidence of these. So 
Im not satisfied that 12 communications were sent.
Clearly there was some activity around the previous CMCs involvement, and I can see 
emails from Mr B and A which would have required some action by IC. But the emails are 
sent to an inbox that is headed Claims, and not to a specific person/Director. And Im not 
satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that this would equate to 13 hours of work.
I havent considered the communications between Mr B and IC they were about his 
complaint as these are complaint handling communications and not part of Mr Bs mis-sold 
loan claim. 
I dont doubt that IC has done some work for Mr B and I agree that they should be 
reimbursed for this. But they havent provided an itemised breakdown of how theyve 
calculated their fee. And from the evidence Ive seen I dont think the fee theyve asked Mr B 
to pay is reasonable.
Without an itemised breakdown it is difficult to assess the costs incurred by IC. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen I think a reasonable fee would 6.5 hours at £50 and six sent items at £20 
each, in total £445. Which equates to the 50% calculation made by our investigator. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask The Claims Expert Ltd trading as Impakt Claims to reduce 
their administration fee from £890 to £445.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman