DRN-3159422
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by Everyday Loans. It was for £2000 and was due to be repaid over 
24 months. Mr M took this loan out in June 2018 and the monthly repayment would be 
£217.11. There is still an outstanding balance for Mr M to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr 
M about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income by checking a payslip and 
used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his living expenses. It says it carried 
out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. It also asked for a 
months worth of bank statements from Mr M and checked these also.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years for £217.11. So, I think it is right that 
Everyday Loans wanted to gather, and independently check (regarding the bank statements, 
payslip and through the credit search), some detailed information about Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I am minded to think that the checks it did 
achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were proportionate. It was Mr Ms first loan 
with Everyday Loans and based on his circumstances at the time, I think it gathered enough 
information in order to inform its decision to lend. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Everyday Loans gathered from Mr M to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to 
be given the loan.
I can see that Everyday Loans had verified Mr Ms income to be around £3400. It recorded 
down that he made £1000 contribution to paying rent and after it took into consideration his 
credit commitments and the loan repayment along with an estimation of his living costs, it 
could see that his disposable income would be around £514. I have been able to check the 
credit search results that it would have seen, and these seem to tally with what Mr M was 
paying on the bank statements he submitted to it with the exception of a small payment to a 
loan. This small monthly payment though would seem affordable, with the amount of 
disposable income that Everyday Loans had assessed Mr M to have available.  
The credit search did show a recent default and Everyday Loans says it asked Mr M about 
this and he said it was currently being disputed with the utilities company in question. The 
bank statements also showed that Mr M was running his personal account well with no 
missed payments or any transactions that ought to have given Everyday Loans concerns. It 
also showed a healthy balance in credit throughout. From the information it gathered from its 
checks, I think it would have been apparent to Everyday Loans that the loan was affordable 
and there was nothing that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it Mr M was 
struggling to manage his finances. And even though Mr M had around 30% of his income 
committed to repaying credit I dont think there was anything that would have given it 
concerns that he couldnt repay the loan in a sustainable way.
So, overall, I am currently minded to think Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks. 
In addition, with the information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. 
So, I dont think Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr M.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Everyday Loans did not respond.
Mr M has provided a detailed response and although I have not included every point that 
he has made below, I have considered everything he has said carefully. I will summarise 
what I believe the most relevant points that he has made:
 
He says there was a concern about a default with a utilities company, accurately 
assessed within the investigators report.
 
Legal costs that would pose a significant risk in the future and would exponentially 
increase, were not assessed.
Mr M then mentions the bank statement he gave to Everyday Loans at the time and 
says the expenditure within it including insurance, travel, credit commitments, child 
maintenance and living costs shows as a negative balance overall. He says this 
raises questions about the income and expenditure assessment from the business 
where it worked out Mr M had disposable income of £514. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points made by Mr M hasnt persuaded me that I should change my provisional 
decision. 
Mr M points to a default that he had incurred with a utilities company that was showing on 
a credit search that Everyday Loans had in front of it. I can see from the information 
Everyday Loans has provided our service, that it says it discussed this default with Mr M. 
It says Mr M told it he was currently in dispute with the utilities company about this default. 
I can see from reading this, that Everyday Loans did act on the information it had 
gathered on this occasion and discussed this default with Mr M and that it used what he 
had told it in its assessment. I think on balance, Everyday Loans did enough here based 
on what it had in front of it. I dont think it did anything wrong at this stage, in taking what 
Mr M said to it at face value and using that information as part of its assessment. 
Mr M then says that Everyday Loans didnt take into consideration legal costs that would 
pose a significant risk to him in the future when it assessed his loan application. But this 
wasnt mentioned by Mr M or discussed by the parties at the time of the loan application so I dont think it would have been something that could have been reasonably 
considered at that time.
Mr M then finally mentions the bank statement that Everyday Loans had in front of it at 
that time when it made its lending decision. I concluded within my decision that Everyday 
Loans made proportionate checks and when I check the statement, I can see that the 
figures it used within its checks seem to tally with what was shown in the statement. I 
acknowledge what Mr M is saying here about his income and all of his costs on his 
statement and that this would show a negative balance, but I can see that Everyday 
Loans was making an assessment on his income and essential costs and whether he 
could then go on to make the loan repayment in a sustainable way. I think on balance, on 
this occasion that it did nothing wrong when it did this and agreed to grant this loan.
I have considered all of the points Mr M has made in his submission, and I do thank him for 
engaging with and responding to the findings of my provisional decision. But my findings 
and decision hasnt changed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman