DRN-3714707
The complaint
Mr J says the advice given and the arrangements made by Pi Financial Ltd (PFL), to switch 
his personal pensions into an Intelligent Money Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), with 
a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement with Mayfair Capital Ltd (MCL) and 
the resulting investments, was unsuitable.
Mr J is represented by CP Financial Claims (CPFC). 
PFL is represented by Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP (RPC).
What happened
Mr J received advice from a firm called M&S Financial Solutions Limited. At the time of the 
events complained about it was an appointed representative (AR) of PFL. As principal, PFL 
is responsible for the acts and omissions of its agent. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to 
PFL in my decision.
Mr J says he was looking for an independent financial adviser and his brother recommended 
PFL. He said he had a couple of pensions which he felt were stagnating. He wanted to 
consolidate them.
During March 2017 PFL gathered information about his objectives, circumstances and 
attitude to risk. It also made contact with his then personal pension providers to gather data 
on his existing provision.
Mr Js objectives were recorded in the following terms:
When discussing your financial needs, aims and goals, we identified that you had not kept 
track of your pensions and would now like to know how they are invested, opportunities in 
the market today in terms of diversifying how your pension assets are held. You wanted to 
invest some monies in more exciting asset classes.
Your funds have fluctuated since Brexit and you would like to have more active 
management on your pensions. You find existing providers are really just admin service but 
would now like advice and ongoing activity on your pensions both in terms of ongoing advice 
service and also investment decisions on a more regular basis. This will give you confidence 
that you are keeping in touch with developments on [your] pensions.
You feel there is an opportunity for growth and given the time the funds can be held then 
you are confident someone looking after your money can help make money.
Your target income is around £1,300 per month at age 66. You work part-time 3 days a 
week through your choice.
You like gardening and DIY and would like more time to do these in retirement and just 
have more time on your hands. By age 66 you will have worked for 51 years, as you feel you 
deserve a break.
We also considered the importance of having my ongoing service commitment and keeping 
your pension on track to meet your needs, aims and goals which is a fundamental part of the 
service we provide.
PFL produced a suitability report for Mr J dated 27 June 2017. In summary it recommended:
- He switched his existing Old Mutual Wealth (OMW) personal pension and Prudential 
personal retirement plan into an Intelligent Money SIPP.
- He invested the funds in line with his assessed cautious attitude to risk through a 
DFM arrangement with MCL.
Mr J accepted PFLs recommendations and the switch went ahead, with about £62,000 
moving from his OMW plan into his new SIPP on 21 July 2017 followed by around £61,300 
from his Prudential plan on 14 August 2017. PFL charged around £4,900 for its initial advice. 
It also charged him around £1,000 fees for the first year of its ongoing advice. The balance 
was paid to MCL by 18 August 2017 for investing.
In September 2020, on behalf of Mr J, CPFC raised several concerns with PFL about what 
had happened to his pension arrangements in 2017. It said the advice to move from his 
existing pensions had been unsuitable. He had a low appetite for risk and capacity for loss. It 
said the investments made with his pension funds had been inappropriate. It said Mr J had 
incurred unnecessary costs as a result of the transaction. And that he had suffered 
significant financial detriment as a result of its actions.
PFL refuted Mr Js complaint. It said his experience with his former pension providers hadnt 
been good  they had been hard to contact and offered fairly poor returns on their fund 
choices. It said given his knowledge, experience and appetite for risk, the switch to the SIPP 
with an active management arrangement had been suitable.
The Investigator reviewed Mr Js complaint and upheld it. She had concerns about the 
advice PFL provided, in particular in relation to matters such as costs of the new 
arrangement and disclosure of these; the alignment of investments made with his risk 
appetite; and recommended fund management.
PFL disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It maintained its advice had 
been suitable, appropriate for Mr Js objectives, circumstances and risk outlook. It also said 
MCL had a direct relationship with Mr J and that it was responsible for all investment advice 
given to him. It argues in this situation the chain of causation had been broken by MCL 
failing to adhere to the original agreement between the parties.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Js complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in August. RPC has provided further 
submissions on behalf of PFL. In summary it said:
Our client's position is that the pension switch and recommendation of a DFM was suitable 
as:
-The charges were made clear to Mr J in writing and the overall annual fee with the 
Intelligent Money SIPP was lower than his existing providers.
-His old plans would not have met his retirement income needs, as they would have 
run out age 83, and so no benefits were lost.
-Our client's assessment of Mr J risk profile was suitable.
-The recommendation to use a DFM was explained in clear terms and so Mr J was 
aware of the "added value" of a DFM.Further, our client argues that the responsibility and liability for the suitability of Mr J's 
portfolio construction both initially and ongoing lies solely with Mayfair Capital, who were 
responsible for assessing his attitude to risk and ensuring that the investments they made 
(or recommended to him) were suitable for him on an ongoing basis.
Ive thought carefully about what RPC has said and have addressed its main arguments in 
arriving at my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Js case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by PFL for Mr J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like PFL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Js best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Further, when considering the use of a DFM, the regulator has made clear that amongst 
other matters, firms need to take into account issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs costs of the arrangement were explained 
to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
Its also important to consider whether a particular DFM was appropriate. The approach 
each firm takes to managing funds and interacting with the adviser and investor is different. So different DFMs might be suitable for clients in different situations. Several factors are 
relevant in this case.
The conduct of proper due diligence. If an adviser relied only on prepared literature, 
weaknesses in the DFMs operations may have been overlooked. Features that an adviser 
should consider in their due diligence include:
- Variation in cost structures between DFMs - some charge per transaction they make, 
in addition to an annual charge.
- What was the DFMs typical investment philosophy (in terms of assets they 
preferred), whether this was a model portfolio or not? Would those assets be 
appropriate?
- Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the 
degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this 
would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should have made.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. They were recommending a DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet.
Also, how the DFM will specifically invest this investors funds. Did the adviser obtain a 
current breakdown of assets in any proposed model portfolio, and the DFMs guidelines as 
to how it manages those assets? How did the adviser ensure that its attitude to risk scale 
mapped appropriately across to the DFMs? And if the DFMs mandate wasnt sufficiently 
limited, did it agree appropriate restrictions on what it was and wasnt allowed to invest in?
If there was no specific agreement between the adviser and the DFM, how could it be sure 
that the DFM had accepted responsibility for risk-mapping the advisers score to its 
portfolios?
What instructions did the adviser give the DFM on the attitude to risk or model portfolio to 
use? Did the adviser effectively give the fund manager freedom to do as it thought 
appropriate? If this has occurred the adviser will have a responsibility for what subsequently 
happened  particularly given their obligations to act in the clients best interests.
Was the DFMs initial asset selection broadly consistent with its mandate? What due 
diligence did the adviser carry out at the beginning? Did the DFM fail to get the asset 
allocation right from the outset, or did things gradually wander off course? If the DFM 
departed from the mandate, did the adviser react to this? 
Regulatory guidance and industry best practice required the adviser to monitor the DFMs 
ongoing performance, having agreed a schedule for information to be exchanged between 
them. Could any losses caused by the DFM have been avoided by the advisers actions?
Did PFL meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr J?
I dont think PFL met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to PFLs transaction with Mr J that are important to my 
consideration, these include the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire, pension replacement 
contract form and the suitability report.PFL recorded that Mr J was 61 at the time of the advice. He was married and had one 
dependent child. He worked part-time earning around £16,500. His wife earned around 
£24,000. Details of their monthly household expenditure was scant  with the record 
suggesting this was £800.
No liabilities were recorded for Mr and Mrs J. They owned their home, which was said to be 
worth £180,000. His wife also had £30,000 in an ISA. Mr J was said to have some 
experience of investments but that his knowledge was limited. Hed previously received 
services from a financial adviser.
Mr J anticipated retiring at 66. His OMW personal pension and his Prudential personal 
retirement plan had a combined transfer value of over £124,000. Aside from his state 
pension, this represented his total retirement pot. Its also recorded that he thought a net 
monthly pension of about £1,300 would be required.
There are some basic problems with the information PFL has provided. For example, I cant 
see evidence of modelling carried out by PFL which shows how the advice it gave Mr J in 
2017, came together to deliver his income requirements in retirement.
I cant see PFL had the information it needed to understand what returns Mr J needed to 
achieve with his personal pension in order to meet the stated objective for his income in 
retirement. I think such analysis wouldve been important to his being able to take an 
informed decision about what to do with his personal pensions.
PFLs role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr J wanted. He mayve wanted to invest in more 
exciting assets. But of course planning for an income in retirement is a serious, complicated 
and some might say mundane matter. He mayve been attracted to using a DFM 
arrangement because hed been concerned about recent market volatility and wanted more 
active management of his situation. But did he need such arrangements given his retirement 
income objective, and experience?
PFL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr J about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for a retirement income.
So, these fundamental problems with PFLs approach undermined the rationale for the 
switch of Mr Js personal pensions. It recommended Mr J switch his provision into an 
Intelligent Money SIPP, with a DFM arrangement with MCL and to invest in a cautious 
portfolio of assets. There are a number of other specific weaknesses with its advice.
Charges
PFL charged Mr J around £4,900 for its initial advice, that was 4% of his fund value.
In its suitability report dated 27 June 2017, PFL noted the charges for his SIPP and the 
underlying funds were likely to be higher than those Mr J was being charged by his existing 
providers but that he believed these would be recovered by higher growth. I think PFL was 
being ambiguous here.
In responding to the Investigators argument about ongoing costs RPC said:
As noted, the Old Mutual Plan attached an Annual Management Charge of up to 1.75%, 
and there would have been a further Annual Management Charge for the Prudential plan, 
which could vary over time, coupled with a charge for the Prudential With Profits Fund.In contrast, the Intelligent Money SIPP had an ongoing service charge of 1% of the 
combined £120,703 assets, being £1,207.03 per annum, plus a Fund Annual Management 
Charge of £150. As a result, the overall annual fee was lower with Intelligent Money SIPP.
Therefore, the charges were reasonable and the effect of the charges were adequately 
highlighted to [Mr J]. As a result, taking into account the relevant charges it was suitable for 
the fund switch to the Intelligent Money SIPP to be recommended to [Mr J].
Like its suitability report for Mr J, in my provisional decision I said I found find this 
explanation unclear, incomplete and unconvincing. While the cost to switch appeared 
reasonably straight-forward, arguably the more important analysis of what ongoing costs 
would be, and the effect of these on any returns his new arrangements might achieve, 
wasnt transparent.
RPC initially noted that the pension replacement contract form (PRCF) showed an important 
reason for Mr J switching included the high charges of his former pensions. According to the 
same form completed by PFL, the costs associated with his OMW plan was actually 1.25% 
of the value of the funds. But for his Prudential plan they were said to be not transparent.
In responding to my provisional decision RPC seems to now face in different directions on 
matters around charging. For example, it says:
the Client Financial Information Form (the CIF) shows that Mr J was not in fact concerned 
by the scheme charges. This is shown in the section "15. Your General Investment Views 
and Goals" which provided a series of questions for Mr J to provide a score in response, with 
1 being the lowest, "not at all" and 5 being the highest, "very". in response to the question, 
"are you aware of the level of charges imposed on your existing pension scheme(s)", Mr J 
answered "not at all", providing a score of 1 (showing that the scheme charges were Mr Js 
lowest priority). This evidences that fees were not of a concern to him.
This isnt my reading of his response. The CIF form was completed on 10 March 2017. I 
think its more likely than not Mr J was saying he wasnt at all aware of the charges being 
made by his existing pension providers. 
My view here is strengthened by what was recorded on the PRCF, which was completed on 
30 June 2017 presumably after Mr J had been informed about the charges being levied on 
his existing policies. It clearly notes high charges as a reason for him wanting to switch. This 
was along with the policies no longer being suitable for his investment objectives and that a 
drawdown facility wasnt available. 
It's also of note the PRCF doesnt identify poor investment performance, a desire to 
consolidate, poor service or attitude to risk as drivers for Mr J switching his pension 
provision. Yet some of these have been referenced in submissions to in part justify the 
recommendations made by PFL.
RPC also said (bolding is my emphasis):
The Retirement Income Report dated 26 June 2017 shows that the existing plan charges 
could be as much as 3.1% each year and so it appears unlikely that the new 
arrangements would cost him more.
I find this observation muddies the waters further. Thats because the fee schedule it refers 
to was for only one of Mr Js previous pension plans. The rate was one of several rates 
potentially chargeable by the provider to different clients in different situations. And I think its 
of note PFL has never suggested this was the charge he incurred.In responding to my provisional decision, RPC has tried to clarify what charges Mr J 
wouldve incurred with the arrangements recommended by PFL. It has said:
the Intelligent Money SIPP had the following annual charges: an ongoing service charge 
of 1% of the combined £120,703 assets, being £1,207.03 per annum and a fund 
Management Charge of £150. 
In addition, there was a 1.5% dealing commission payable to Mayfair Capital, which was a 
percentage based dealing fee per trade (which was made up of 1.00% dealing commission 
and 0.5% stamp duty). Mr J was therefore in control of whether dealing commission was 
payable, given that he could agree to trade, or refuse any investment recommendations 
Mayfair Capital provided to him...
Note that these extracts were also included in the Suitability Report and so Mr J was 
made well aware of the charges involved and that he was in control of the dealing 
commission payable. Therefore, the new arrangements actually cost Mr J 1% per annum of 
the fund value plus £150 and any dealing commission payable. As noted, the Suitability 
Letter provides that there "could" be underlying costs of the stocks/shares brought, but Mr 
J's Discretionary Adviser would discuss this with him and so he would be made aware if 
there were any underlying costs.
FurtherMr J confirmed that he understood that he had a responsibility to say no if he 
didnt agree to any recommendations made, as the SIPP Application states: "It is your 
trading account and you are in control. If you are unsure of any advice provided by your 
investment adviser, then you must NOT proceed with the transaction". As such, Mr J was in 
control of how his pension was invested, including any underlying costs.
As explainedthis meant that the overall annual fee was lower with Intelligent Money SIPP 
(as the Old Mutual Wealth (Old Mutual) Plan had an Annual Management Charge of up to 
1.75% and there would have been a further Annual Management Charge for the Prudential 
plan, along with a charge for the Prudential With Profits Fund).
Im grateful for RPCs attempt to explain the charges, unfortunately Im not persuaded by its 
explanations. For example, theres no mention of the fees Mr J would be charged by PFL for 
its ongoing advice service, this was agreed as 1% of his fund value. The comparison to 
make here was with his former arrangement, where I understand he paid his former adviser 
0.5% per annum. 
I note the potentially significant dealing commission of 1.5%. The fact that Mr J could 
manage this cost by telling the DFM he didnt want to accept its investment proposals seems 
wrong-headed. Presumably the logic for using a DFM was the active management of his 
funds to achieve good returns. So, it can reasonably be assumed such costs were likely to 
be incurred.
Further, I dont think its sufficient to allude to potential additional costs such as those 
associated with buying and selling stocks/shares. Even if they couldnt reasonably be 
quantified, this required further explanation to help Mr J understand what these charges 
would be, their likely frequency and scale.
And I note RPC hasnt been able to confirm the actual costs associated with Mr Js former 
pension plans.
I dont agree that because certain documents in certain places identified certain charges that 
Mr J would incur, and because he signed various documents to say he understood 
everything means that PFL is off the hook. It had a duty to be clear, fair and not misleading 
in the information it provided.Ultimately, if PFL and RPC are still struggling to convey what charges and fees Mr J would 
be charged under the new arrangements recommended, and crucially how these compared 
with those incurred under his former arrangements, and the impact these wouldve had on 
the relative returns, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude he shouldve understood 
these matters.
Rather than Mr J benefitting from lower costs, as was suggested initially by RPC was one of 
his motivations for switching, from the evidence available to me its more likely than not he 
faced a substantial uplift in the overall fees and charges hed be paying as a result of all 
PFLs recommendations.
RPC says Mr J opted for the arrangements recommended by PFL because he wanted the 
opportunity to improve the performance of his pension funds and he thought the new 
arrangements would cover the higher overheads. But it wasnt for him to be the judge in 
terms of the prospects for improved investment returns under MCLs management  PFL 
needed to provide its assessment.
I cant see that PFL provided Mr J with an analysis showing the performance of his former 
personal pensions. Further, Id not seen what yield PFL was targeting with its 
recommendations. 
In responding to my provisional decision RPC has now produced figures which it says show 
that one of Mr Js former personal pensions achieved average annual growth over the prior 
decade of around 2.84%. It says PFLs recommendations were targeting an annual return of 
3.48%, consistent with his risk attitude.
Im grateful to RPC for trying to fill in the gaps on the analysis after the event  but I cant 
see Mr J was provided with this information in the suitability report or elsewhere in a clear 
and fair manner. However, even now there are problems with what it has told this Service. 
The historic return figures provided are for only one of his former pension plans. We have no 
information about whether the figures are before or after inflation. And we dont know if they 
are based on the same mix of investments in his plan.
In order to exceed the drag of increased costs and then provide an improved return on 
investment, there needed to be a reasonable prospect of significant performance 
improvement under the new arrangements. But the information provided on behalf of PFL 
hasnt demonstrated this was the case.
Further, the fund manager it proposed was only established in 2016 and became regulated 
in April 2017. So, it seems there couldnt have been any historical performance data to show 
whether the yield RPC now says PFL was targeting was realistic.
In responding to my provisional decision RPC said:
The Suitability Letter states that "the charges for the new recommended SIPP and 
underlying funds are likely to be higher than those with your current providers but you 
believe these will be recovered by higher growth, although not guaranteed". However, it was 
not for our client to assess "whether the new arrangements would cover the higher 
overheads" (as the FOS suggests) as our client was not advising on the investments to be 
made.
RPC is wrong about the regulatory requirements placed on its client in this regard. Ive 
already set out at some length what these obligations entailed. It was of course for PFL to 
have informed Mr J about the overall costs and projected returns associated with all the 
recommendations it was making.PFL still hasnt responded effectively on this matter. It follows that it hasnt done enough to 
satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr J to be better off, compared to his then existing 
personal pensions, as a result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges he was 
incurring and the nature of the investment strategy it was recommending.
Existing benefits
The next matter Ive considered was whether Mr J has lost any benefits in the switch without 
good reason. Its unfortunate that again PFLs audit trail and explanations are lacking on this 
matter. In its suitability report it said of his Prudential pension plan:
Your existing plan has guarantees at certain ages. For instance at age 66 based on 
projection of fund being £82,800 then you will receive a guaranteed pension of £5,000 per 
annumYou are aware of this but prefer full flexibility on how you access the fund and how 
the fund is managed in the meantime compared to this type of guarantee.
PFL didnt make clear that its commentary related to just one of Mr Js pensions. I think it 
wouldve been easy for him to have assumed the bullet point related to both his plans. I think 
the lack of a more fulsome explanation about what he would be giving up is even more 
telling if we consider this alongside another of PFLs reasons for him switching his pensions.
PFL told him:
You are likely to have a shortfall in meeting your income at retirement target of £15,600 per 
annum with the pensions being moved projected to produce £4,410 per annum and state 
pension at £7,000 per annum. However, you will be making additional contributions monthly 
and this will be the subject of annual reviews to see how you progress against your desired 
income target.
There are several flaws here in PFLs reasoning. Firstly, Mr Js Prudential plan alone had a 
reasonable prospect of delivering him £5,000 per annum. As the pension income report it 
commissioned indicated, Mr J would receive a state pension of about £8,300. The gap 
between these two sources of income and his stated target annual income in retirement was 
just £2,300.
Leaving aside any new contributions Mr J was planning to make, it seems likely then that his 
existing pension provision, if not exceeding his objective, was very close to it. This again 
undermines PFLs advice.
In responding to my provisional decision RPC said:
The FOS provide thatMr J was "very close" to meeting his objective, but no explanation 
is provided regarding how Mr J would be in a position to make "new contributions" to fill the 
gap and whether this would be realistic. Further, the Retirement Income Report shows that if 
he kept his existing Old Mutual and Prudential plans then his income would run out at age 83 
and so this shows that his old plans would not have met his retirement income needs.
Therefore, the fact that the growth in funds in respect of Mr J's existing plans were not 
guaranteed and that they would run out by age 83, shows that the advice to switch was 
reasonable and no benefits were lost in doing so.
I dont find the arguments made by RPC to be telling. It doesnt address the inaccuracies in 
PFLs suitability report about what Mr Js then existing pension provisions could deliver. This 
showed an exaggerated gap between his provision and his objectives. This is likely to have 
had a significant impact on his decision making. RPC doesnt take into account the 
additional contributions Mr J was likely to make prior to his retirement. And the fact that returns to his pensions werent guaranteed applied equally to the new arrangements it was 
recommending.
Further, in effect RPC acknowledges Mr Js existing provision was close to meeting his 
objectives, with funds projected to run out when he reached 83 (slightly longer than the 
average life expectancy for a male in the UK). Taking into account the other matters 
identified, I remain of the view there that a reasonable case has not been made for him to 
switch his pension arrangements.
Risk
Mr J completed a risk appetite assessment. PFL said he was a cautious investor. It went on 
to describe this in the following terms:
Cautious investors typically have low levels of knowledge about investment matters and 
limited interest in keeping up to date with investment issues. They may have some limited 
experience of investment products, but will be more familiar with bank accounts than riskier 
investments.
In general, cautious investors do not like to take risks with their investments. They would 
prefer to keep their money in the bank, but may be willing to invest in other types of 
investments if they are likely to be better for the longer term.
Cautious investors can take a relatively long time to make up their mind on investment 
matters and can often suffer from regret when investment decisions turn out badly.
Id start by noting that Mr Js former Prudential pensions was a with profit fund, and so a 
reasonable fit for his assessed risk outlook. His OMW pension was invested in over 30 
funds. These appear to have ranged across the whole gamut  from low to high risk, so my 
working assumption is overall it represented a balanced portfolio. This appears to have been 
in excess of his attitude to risk.
I think the assessment PFL conducted of Mr Js risk appetite was a reasonable starting 
point. Mr J wasnt a novice in investment matters. He wanted to achieve higher returns than 
cash. And he stated that he could cope with infrequent periods where his investments might 
fall in value. But Mr Js investment horizon was limited  he had less than five years until 
retirement.
In responding to the Investigators view, RPC advanced a case that suggested Mr J had 
significant experience of investments. It said:
the Mayfair Capital application to open a SIPP (signed by Mr J on 26 September 2017) 
provides that Mr J traded between 3 to 40 collective investments and bonds each year, with 
an average trade size of £3,000, which had been managed for 10 years. Mr J also had 
shares (such as Major shares and Alternative Investment Market shares), which he traded 
less than 3 times a years with an average trade size of £3,000. Mr J therefore had previous 
investment experience and was aware of market volatilities
The SIPP application also provided that there were not any type of products, investment or 
markets that Mr J did not want to invest in, and that he understood the risks associated with 
his choice of products. He also stated that he did not have a limit (i) to the maximum 
monetary value that he was prepared to risk on any individual trade, (ii) the maximum 
number of Advisory Only trades with Mayfair on a monthly basis and (iii) the maximum 
number of Discretionary Only trades with Mayfair on a monthly basis.The information gathered by PFL about his knowledge and experience presents a different 
picture. From 13 products that were set out for him, he identified experience of investing in 
ISAs, an endowment, pension plans and shares.
Ive thought carefully about this matter. I place more weight on the information PFL gathered 
in preparation for its advice, than the information gathered by MCL after the switch of his 
funds had been given effect. Thats because the information captured by PFL was itemised 
and clear. Mr J also went on to provide details about the products hed used. On the other 
hand, the information as presented from the MCL form brigades products together  its not 
clear exactly what he was confirming about his experience.
On balance, I dont think Mr J was particularly knowledgeable about investment and pension 
matters. Of course, thats why he sought professional advice from PFL.
In its suitability report, PFL explained to Mr J that his funds would be invested in a cautious 
portfolio. It set out the typical assets that he might hold in this, including global equities 
(48%), government bonds (30%), corporate bonds (20%) and cash (2%). It said:
This is a guideline to which Mayfair Capital Ltd will invest within, an exact portfolio will be 
drafted upon a discussion with yourself to the gain an understanding of your current financial 
situation and investment objectives before working with you to maximise performance within 
the boundaries of your appetite for risk. There could be additional costs as this will depend 
on the underlying investments.
In responding to my provisional decision RPC said:
it is not clear why our client needed to ascertain the exact split of the holdings, given that 
it was for Mayfair Capital to determine how the funds were to be invested within the 
balanced risk mandate and in any event, the fund composition would "change frequently" in 
order to maximise performance within the boundaries of Mr J's appetite to risk. As such, it 
doesnt make sense that a precise breakdown was required by our client (or at all) at that 
stage, given that the fund holdings were to be selected and managed by Mayfair Capital and 
that they needed to undertake their own risk profile of Mr J, to be cross checked against our 
client's assessment. As noted in the Suitability Report, Mayfair Capital's role was to provide 
an exact portfolio upon discussion with Mr J, and they would provide a dedicated investment 
manager, who would then tailor the portfolio according to Mr J's investment objectives and 
financial resources.
Its a problem for PFL that it didnt have a handle on the investments Mr J would be making 
in his new SIPP. The regulator required that it took a close interest in where Mr Js funds 
would be placed. Generic descriptions about the sort of investments his pension might make 
wasnt sufficient. If the underlying investment wasnt suitable, then the advice wasnt 
suitable.
RPC did go on to acknowledge:
Nevertheless, our client did receive regular reports and so they did monitor the fund's 
performance on an ongoing basis.
Thats what I wouldve expected given the service Mr J was paying PFL for. And yet despite 
this oversight we know Mr J ended up investing in a range of assets that were above his 
assessed appetite for risk.
PFL said it chose MCL as fund manager for Mr J because:
At Mayfair Capital Ltd they recognise that each of their clients' requirements are different, 
which is why they allocate a dedicated Investment Manager to be your personal point of contact. Your manager will seek to gain an understanding of your current financial situation 
and investment objectives before working with you to maximise performance within the 
boundaries of your appetite for risk.
It doesnt appear as though PFL told Mr J about the lack of performance data for MCL, given 
it was a relatively new entrant to the market. This added more risk into the mix. It shouldve 
been more fulsome about this. It shouldve set out why using this DFM was a better option 
than more established fund managers.
Neither am I convinced by PFLs assessment of Mr Js capacity for loss  another key 
element of the risk assessment process it had to undertake. It said:
Your capacity for loss [is] 30%. Up to that you feel your standard of living would not be 
compromised.
PFL hadnt been clear how it had arrived at its 30% loss assessment on capacity. RPC has 
now said:
the adviser states that "if there are no additional notes then this would signify [the] client 
has calculated a figure during the conversation"
It wasnt for Mr J to assess his capacity for loss. This was something PFL shouldve led. But 
thats not the impression given here by PFL.
While Mr J had a partner who would receive her own pension benefits, Mr J was investing all 
his pension provision. He had some other assets, in particular his home, but these were 
modest. I think he had a limited capacity for loss given his overall financial circumstances 
and how long he had to go until retirement.
Ongoing fund management
Mr J is said to have wanted his funds to be spread across more diverse investments, with 
some in more exciting asset classes. He wanted his funds actively managed. Id note that 
the OMW personal pension he had was an actively managed portfolio. Its not clear he 
wouldve appreciated this from the suitability report PFL provided. Nor that he couldve 
chosen up to 100 funds from the 500 it had available. Its not clear these matters were 
explored effectively with him.
Mr J hadnt used a DFM arrangement previously. The concept was introduced by PFL. 
There was a duty of care on it to make sure the firm it was recommending was appropriate 
for him. But its not clear to me he wouldve had a clear idea about the added value being 
provided by MCL and PFL respectively. Yet he was paying a lot of money for both services. 
PFL said of MCL:
At Mayfair Capital Ltd they have a different approach to investment services. Rather than 
slotting you into someone else's financial model, they custom build a service around you. 
The type of service you choose will be determined by how actively involved you want to be in 
the management of your investments and how confident you are with monitoring the balance 
of risk and reward yourself.
Their approach is to listen to our clients' needs then tailor an investment strategy that fits 
their investment objectives, knowledge, experience and financial resources. Inherent within 
our culture is the belief that an approachable and dependable relationship with all their 
clients will surpass their expectations for service and value. This is achieved by allocating 
each individual client their own qualified personal investment manager who centres the 
service around them.Its difficult to understand how PFL could recommend MCL based on its different approach to 
investment services. I say this because MCL was registered with the FCA in April 2017, only 
a few months before PFL recommended it to Mr J.
PFL has said its compliance director carried out due diligence into MCL. And that following 
the exercise it was accepted as one of its permitted investment houses.
A key element of PFLs recommendation for Mr J to switch his personal pension into the 
Intelligent Money SIPP appears to have been the expectation the DFM investment portfolio 
would perform better than his existing plan. If thats the case then it begs the question, on 
what that expectation was based upon?
MCL was a newly registered business. It had no track record of investment performance. 
Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the degree of 
success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this would reasonably 
have increased the enquiries PFL shouldve made.
Mr J had limited investment experience, but he wasnt a sophisticated investor. He had a 
modest personal pension fund of around £120,000 which hed built up over many years. PFL 
hasnt done enough to demonstrate the recommendations it made to Mr J to establish a 
SIPP, with a DFM facility, investing in vehicles he had no experience of, in a company with 
little track record, which also required its ongoing advice service, was suitable.
The arrangements PFL put in place were over-engineered, complicated, untested, relatively 
expensive and it wasnt clear they were reasonably likely to be able to produce a better 
return than his personal pension.
Flexibility
One of the arguments RPC has advanced is that Mr J required flexibility and that this 
couldnt be delivered by his existing plans. In responding to my provisional decision it said:
The FOS argues that Mr J shouldnt have switched pensions on the basis that his 
"investment horizon was limited  he had less than five years until retirement", but this 
misses the point that one of Mr J's key objectives was to have flexible drawdown, which was 
not available with his existing providers (notwithstanding that he had expressed 
disappointment with the service and performance of his existing arrangements and so he 
wanted a fund management that had a more hands on approach). The advice provided 
allowed such flexibility.
Given the case for switching hasnt been made in terms of cost, potential returns, existing 
benefits, risk and fund management, theres not a good argument for Mr J switching his 
pension when he did. Although he may have required more flexibility in how he could take 
the benefits from his pension pot, he had another five years to decide on the right 
arrangements for his retirement.
Where does PFLs liability end and MCLs begin?
In responding to the Investigators view RPC said:
Mayfair's email dated 6 April 2020 to our client states: "In terms of specific PI clients we 
have direct contractual relationship with all clients. They are required to complete our 
documentation and have direct access to MCL should they need". [Mr J] was therefore 
Mayfair Capital's client. As our client has already explained, the responsibility and the liability 
for the suitability of [Mr J] portfolio construction both initially and ongoing lies solely with 
Mayfair Capital.This is confirmed by the email dated 23 January 2017 from Mayfair Capital to our client 
regarding due diligence, which states: "Mayfair are responsible for all investment advice for 
clients who hold accounts with ourselves" and so they are responsible for the advice 
provided regarding the investments within the SIPP (in relation to the portfolios Mayfair 
advise on and establish).
Firstly, Id note that Mr Js complaint was made in broader terms than RPC implies here. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered the point it makes carefully.
Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with another firm for the investors 
loss then generally the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole period 
(including the period after the other firm became involved) and then seek to obtain redress 
from the other entity, as appropriate. But where a firm believes the causal link between the 
advice it gave and any ongoing loss has been broken, then the first firm may need only 
consider the period up to the second advice.
Ive already highlighted some failings in the approach PFL took with Mr J given his 
circumstances and objectives. These are around basic rationale, charging, loss of benefits; 
risk appetite assessment and fund management arrangements and therefore the overall 
responsibility to switch.
Regarding the role of the DFM it recommended, PFL has provided more information to show 
it undertook due diligence on MCL. But given it was a new provider, without a track record, 
its not clear why it recommended such a firm to Mr J who had no experience of DFMs. And 
it hasnt done enough to show why he even needed such an arrangement.
PFL didnt obtain a current detailed breakdown of assets to understand how Mr Js funds 
would be invested. I cant see it was aware of how its assessment of risk mapped to MCLs 
approach. More generally, its not clear how the seemingly separate information gathering, 
assessments and processes of PFL and MCL were reconciled and areas of difference and 
contradiction examined.
In responding to my provisional decision RPC said:
as explained above and in the May Submissions, Mayfair Capital has a "direct contractual 
relationship with all clients". As such, Mr J was Mayfair Capital's client and so it was for 
Mayfair Capital to carry out an independent fact finding and to make an assessment of Mr 
J's risk profile.
Therefore, as previously explained, the responsibility and liability for the suitability of Mr J's 
portfolio construction both initially and ongoing lies solely with Mayfair Capital; it was for 
Mayfair Capital to advise on and establish Mr J's attitude to risk. It was not for our client to 
"reconcile" any differences in risk profiling.
Mr J had signed up to an ongoing service from PFL for which it charged him 1% of the value 
of his fund in advance. In return it said he would receive an offer of an annual review and a 
6-month interim desk-top review. It said this would encompass an assessment of his 
circumstances; a review of his objectives; a review of investment performance and holdings; 
valuations and investment commentary; and reassessment of risk profile and asset 
allocation. I think this makes clear it needed to be across MCLs approach and performance.
Indeed, PFL has provided a copy of one review that it carried out for Mr J from June 2018. In 
the letter it noted what MCL had said about his portfolio performance to date:
Below is the current valuation of your portfolio with advisory stockbroker Mayfair Capital and 
their associated commentary:Initial Investment: £123,172.85
IFA Fees: £6,035.15
Withdrawals: £129.39
Current Value: £96,673.23
[Mr J] was unfortunately one of our clients that had invested into Carillion, a UK construction 
company and a constituent of the FTSE 250, that disastrously collapsed at the beginning of 
the year. This had significant consequences on the account which we have been working on 
recovering ever since. We have had moderate success in making back these losses, and 
again, if the indices we have and in future will be gaining exposure to, meet the end of year 
forecasts, we should be a considerable way to bringing this account back to its initial value.
Should [Mr J] want a more in depth description about how we plan on accomplishing this, we 
are available at any time during the day to have a telephone conversation with him.
PFL went on to record:
Feedback from your review call with me, which we have duly noted:
- Naturally, you are concerned regarding the losses on your account as described above, 
and I have suggested we look at this again early 2019 - to which you were receptive.
- You have a house valued at £180k with no mortgage. Your work situation is secure.
- Your risk profile remains 'Cautious'.
Based on the above, we do not see the need to make any changes to your current set up at 
this stage and will of course keep the portfolio under review going forward. As per our 
ongoing review process, we will diarise a further review in the new year as discussed and 
will contact you in due course.
MCLs investment strategy appears to have been pitched at a medium risk appetite  PFL 
had assessed him as with a cautious outlook. The section of Mr Js MCL application which 
identifies the preferred product classes and asset allocations is significantly at odds with 
what was indicated in the suitability report. For example, the SIPP application showed 15% 
of his funds would be allocated to high risk investments and there would be a smaller 
proportion of lower risk investments.
PFL needed to have understood how Mr Js SIPP funds would be invested from the outset. It 
was supposed to be regularly reviewing the DFMs approach and performance. From the 
documents available its clear it effectively endorsed the investment strategy again in June 
2018. And the pattern of investments appears consistent over time.
So, given PFLs initial and ongoing role which has seen Mr J switch his personal pension 
into a SIPP with his funds being invested through a DFM in funds that were said to be a 
match for his risk appetite, its fair and reasonable for it to provide compensation for any 
losses arising in this case.
Of course, it is a matter for PFL if it wishes to pursue MCL for any acts and omissions which 
it believes gave rise to any element of the redress costs it now faces.
Putting things right
Mr J cant benefit from double recovery of losses and compensation in respect of 
substantively the same case. As such, if he accepts this decision, hell need to give an 
undertaking to assign any rights he has to take action against MCL and any associated 
redress, over to PFL.Im upholding Mr Js case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Pi Financial Ltd responsible for.
If PFL had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mr J wouldve switched either his OMW or 
Prudential personal pensions into a SIPP. It follows that I dont think hed have taken on a 
DFM facility. However, proper advice wouldve identified that he was over-exposed 
according to his assessed risk appetite on his OMW plan, and so shouldve switched some 
of these funds into investments more aligned to his cautious attitude to risk.
So, Pi Financial Ltd needs to provide redress as follows.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr J has suffered as a result of making the switch of his personal 
pensions
In respect of Mr Js former Prudential pension, PFL should obtain its notional value as at the 
date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt been transferred to the Intelligent Money SIPP. It will 
need to obtain the value of the plan as previously invested.
In respect of Mr Js former OMW personal pension, PFL will need to calculate a notional 
value using a benchmark. For half the investment the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index; for the other half the average rate from fixed rate bonds.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total 
return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK 
equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr J's risk profile was in between these measures, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt mean he wouldve 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr J could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
PFL should then find the current (actual) value of his SIPP, including investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Information Ive seen from July 2020 appears to indicate a total value of Mr Js SIPP at that 
time of around £68,000.
Im not aware if Mr J made further contributions to his SIPP. Nor whether hes taken any 
benefits from it. After confirming the detailed position, then the value PFL obtains or the 
calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred and on the 
same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Js 
former personal pensions and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic financial loss 
that PFL needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr Js SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised.If, at the date of settlement, any residual investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PFL should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as 
above.
If PFL is unable to purchase the residual investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr J provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. PFL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Had PFL done what it ought to have done then there wouldnt have been a SIPP. So, it 
wouldnt be fair if Mr J continued to have to pay SIPP fees because of illiquid holdings 
preventing it from being closed. Ideally, PFL would take over any illiquid holdings, thus 
allowing the SIPP to be closed. But third parties are involved, and I cant tell them what to 
do.
So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and PFL is unable to buy them 
from the SIPP, then its fair that it should pay Mr J an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable 
period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Js pension pot so the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax.
If compensation is paid into Mr Js SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension scheme.
If paying compensation into Mr Js SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and PFL takes on his investments, then it should pay 
his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr J hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. If Mr J is a higher rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would 
reduce the amount payable accordingly.
PFL must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which this Service informs it 
that Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PFL considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr J how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
PFL should provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Further informationThere is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Js complaint, and require Pi Financial 
Ltd to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman