DRN-3742827
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has not refunded him for a life 
assurance policy he didnt require.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr W appealed. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
When taking out a life assurance policy in 2018 Mr W intended to cancel a policy he 
took out in 2007  but he didnt do so. He admits this was an honest mistake on his 
part. However I dont find it was for Aviva to cancel the policy for him as it wasnt 
instructed to do so or that it is otherwise responsible for it not being cancelled. 
Whilst Aviva did refund premiums on an income protection policy that Mr W forgot to 
cancel, it doesnt follow that it was obliged to refund premiums on the life policy. I say 
this because in the event of a claim both life policies would have paid out I full. Aviva 
was on risk as both policies provided life cover.
Aviva has indicated that where a customer has existing Aviva policies and takes out 
replacements it will refund premiums if contacted withing 12 months of the new 
policies starting. This is reasonable and more than its regulatory requirement. Here 
the request to cancel came over three and a half years later. In these circumstances I 
dont find that Aviva has treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably in declining this 
request.
Im satisfied that the period during which both policies were in force was sufficient for 
Mr W to query the Aviva Life payments being debited from his account, should he 
have wished to do so.
I do appreciate that Mr W didnt intend to have two life policies running together, but 
in all the circumstances I dont find that there was any error on the part of Aviva.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman