DRN-3181466
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that ERGO Reiseversichering AG has turned down a cancellation
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs T took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker.
Cover under the policy began on 10 May 2019 and expired on 9 May 2020. In August 2019,
Mr and Mrs T booked a holiday to a country Ill call S. They were due to travel between 18
May and 8 June 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and
on 14 March 2020, S government imposed a strict lockdown. Subsequently, on 17 March
2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly Foreign &
Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on
23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement,
commonly referred to as lockdown. This government announcement included an instruction
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
Mr and Mrs Ts airline cancelled their flight booking on 8 April 2020, so they cancelled their
pre-booked accommodation. As the accommodation costs were non-refundable and
irrecoverable, they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
ERGO turned down Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt
cover claims which happened because of changes to FCDO advice.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that
the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ts situation. But he noted that the policy specifically
excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. So he concluded that Mr
and Mrs T wouldnt have been covered if theyd continued with their trip and they wouldnt
have been covered for cancelling it either. He didnt think this was a fair and reasonable
position for Mr and Mrs T to have been left in. So he recommended that ERGO should
reassess Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to turn down Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim. I said:
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I currently think it was fair and
reasonable for ERGO to turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether
ERGO treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs T found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in February 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
ERGOs obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs T are limited by the terms, conditions
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy says that ERGO will pay for a policyholders unused cancellation costs
if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events. The
Cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy says ERGO will pay such costs if a trip is
cancelled for one of the following reasons:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged
to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under current
legislation applicable within your home country.
e) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
f) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable, up to 14
days before the commencement of your trip due to fire lightning, explosion, earthquake,
subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or civil unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes,
impact by aircraft, the Police requesting your presence following a burglary or attempted
burglary.
g) you or a travelling companion discovering that you/ they are pregnant after the date of
issue of this policy or the date the trip was booked (whichever was later), if the booked return
date is within 12 weeks (16 weeks for a multiple birth) of the expected date of
delivery, or complications of pregnancy.
h) yours or your travelling companions passport being stolen during the seven days before
your departure date.
i) you are a member of the armed forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services and
you have to stay in your country of residence because of an emergency or you are posted
overseas unexpectedly.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ts trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation section of their policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy. But in this
case, I dont think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ts policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. He thought this left Mr and Mrs T in an unfair
position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and
conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct ERGO to doso here.
I say that because the Cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy includes a specific list
of things ERGO doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ts claim. But on
14 March 2020, S government placed the country into strict lockdown. On 17 March 2020,
the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK
government had imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of the local area was severely
restricted. Travel restrictions remained in place in both S and the UK for the duration of Mr
and Mrs Ts planned holiday dates.
I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and
government restrictions both in S and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some
degree on Mr and Mrs Ts airlines and, ultimately, their own decision to cancel their trip.
So not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ts holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ts position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket.
But overall, Im not planning to direct ERGO to pay their claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
ERGO didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept my provisional findings. Ive summarised their responses:
They considered that both I and the investigator felt that morally, the claim should be 
covered, but that insurers wrote their policies in such a way as to exclude claims;
When the policy was sold, Mrs T specifically asked whether Covid-19 claims would 
be covered if the situation worsened and was told that they would be;
They initially cancelled the holiday because their airline had cancelled their flight, but 
they had no choice but to cancel their accommodation. However, the cancellation 
had really been enforced because the FCDO had advised against travel. They felt 
insulted that Id indicated that theyd chosen to cancel. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, Ive decided it was fair and 
reasonable for ERGO to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
Its important I make it clear that ERGO didnt sell Mr and Mrs T the travel insurance policy. 
The policy was sold by a broker. So ERGO isnt responsible for any of the information Mr 
and Mrs T mightve been given during the sale. If they feel they were misled about the way the policy worked or the cover it provided, its open to them to make a complaint to the 
broker about the sale of the policy alone.
Im sorry if Mr and Mrs T felt that Id implied theyd freely chosen to cancel their trip. I 
appreciate that their airline cancelled their flight and that both FCDO and lockdown 
restrictions were in place at the point they cancelled their accommodation. I dont dispute 
that the situation was entirely outside of Mr and Mrs Ts control and I accept it mustve been 
very disappointing when they had to take the decision to cancel the accommodation.
But as I set out in my provisional decision, the circumstances of the claim simply arent 
covered by any section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. So ERGO isnt contractually obliged to pay 
their claim. And as I explained, given the government restrictions which were in place at the 
relevant time, I think the specific exclusion I set out wouldve applied to the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
So overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ts position, I find that it was fair and 
reasonable for ERGO to turn down their claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman