DRN-3797622
The complaint
A sports club which I will call O, complains about the service they received from 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. In summary, they say that the bank unfairly closed their account on 
the basis it was dormant, without giving adequate notice.  They say this has caused 
considerable inconvenience to the club.
What happened
In February 2022, Barclays wrote to the club that as their account had shown no transaction 
for some time, it would be closed after three months, in May 2022. The letter set out what 
the club could do to avoid the closure and what they could do if the account did close. The 
club says that they never received the letter. 
Barclays sent no further reminders and closed the account in May 2022, as it continued to 
be dormant.  The club subsequently found this out when they tried to operate the account. 
They were told by Barclays that the account is closed. The bank said that the club would 
now have to open a new account. It also advised them of another set of procedures to 
reclaim the account balance, which was around £400.
The club isnt happy. They are of the view that the steps Barclays took to inform them of the 
closure was inadequate. They say that it was remiss of Barclays to have sent just one letter 
about the closure and that the bank should have sent reminders warning about the closure.  
They say that as a result of this poor service from the bank they now have to go through a 
series of procedures which are totally unnecessary. They say that they are a small club run 
by volunteers and this is causing considerable inconvenience. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close an inactive account after giving two 
months notice. In this instance the bank gave three months notice. Whilst it is 
appreciated that the club would have liked a phone call or email, the bank had followed 
their process as outlined in their terms and conditions.
It is unfortunate that the club didnt receive the letter but it was addressed correctly. So, 
there was no error on banks part in this regard. The bank has also evidenced that a 
copy of the letter was uploaded to Os online banking, which means the information was 
also accessible to O on this platform as well.
O did not agree. They reiterated that the banks dormancy procedure is unreasonable. In 
particular, they are of the view that the bank should have returned the money once the 
account was closed. They find it unfair that the bank has simply kept their money and now 
require the club to go through a cumbersome process to just get their own money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator broadly for the 
same reasons.
I can see from the accounts statements that the account was inactive for over a period of 18 
months. Hence as per the banks procedure and terms and conditions, the bank acted 
correctly in giving due notice to O of its intention to close the account. This was unless they 
make a payment into or a withdrawal from the account before the deadline and then use the 
account on a regular basis in the future.
It is unfortunate that O didnt receive the banks letter. However, it was addressed correctly 
by the bank. The bank also uploaded a copy of the letter to Os online banking.  
I appreciate the point made by O that the bank could have sent a reminder by post or email. 
However, the bank wasnt obliged to do so in this instance, having sent the letter to the right 
address and uploading it to online banking. Therefore, whilst it could have been a better 
customer service for the bank to have done so, I cannot say that there was an error or 
omission on part of the bank in this regard.
I can also understand why O considers that, having closed the account, the bank should 
have simply returned the account balance to the club rather than putting them through 
onerous procedures to reclaim the money.
However, there could be several reasons for an account being inactive or the customer not 
responding. For example, the customer may no longer be at the address or the entity could 
have been dissolved and no longer functioning. So, I can understand why the bank has 
some additional procedures in place once a dormant account is closed. Also, the bank did 
explain this in its notice of closure. Therefore, whilst I appreciate the strength of feeling in 
this matter, I am unable to conclude that the bank acted unreasonably.  
That said, I understand that O havent yet completed the required procedures to get their 
money back or started a new account and transferred the money to that account. If in that 
process they encounter any error or omission on part of the bank they could refer that matter 
to us, and we can consider that separately.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman