DRN-3628752
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In May 2021, Ms W attempted to buy garden furniture using an online marketplace. Ms W 
paid £700 using her Barclays debit card. After making the payment Ms W became nervous 
and contacted the online marketplace, who told her that the sale wasnt showing on her user 
profile. At this point Ms W became aware shed been the victim of a scam.
Ms W contacted Barclays and asked them to help her recover the £700 payment shed 
made.
Barclays raised a chargeback on Ms Ws behalf against the recipient of the funds  which 
was a money transfer service. Ms W believed shed paid the person selling the garden 
furniture directly, however shed made the payment via a money transfer service. Ill refer to 
the money transfer service as T.
Barclays received a response to the chargeback claim, saying that it was declined based on 
the information provided by T. This was because T had provided the service they were paid 
for  which was as a money transfer service.
Barclays wrote to Ms W providing the documents from T and asking her to contact them 
within 10 days if her dispute wasnt resolved. As they didnt receive a response from Ms W, 
they closed her chargeback claim.
Ms W got in touch with Barclays and raised a complaint. She said Barclays knew that she 
was away from home due to work, so wouldnt receive their letter or be able to respond by 
the deadline. Ms W felt Barclays shouldve tried other means to contact her so she could 
respond in time and provide all the evidence she had about the scam. Ms W asked Barclays 
to reconsider their position and refund her the £700.
Barclays considered Ms Ws complaint but declined to refund her. They explained that based 
on the evidence T had provided, there wasnt any information or evidence that Ms W 
couldve provided that wouldve changed the outcome on her chargeback claim even if she 
had responded in time. 
As Ms W wasnt happy with Barclays response, she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigatior looked into Ms Ws complaint but didnt recommend Barclays refund her. 
They felt Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably in closing Ms Ws chargeback claim, 
explaining that even if she had provided further evidence it wouldnt have changed the 
outcome of the claim. 
Ms W disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying:
Barclays didnt communicate with her properly by sending a letter when they knew 
she wouldnt receive it.
Barclays didnt do enough to recoup her funds following the fraud.
Barclays have an obligation to reimburse her under the Push Payment Scam Code.
As Ms W didnt accept the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but Im not going to recommend that Barclays refund her. I say 
this because:
Im not persuaded that there is any evidence Ms W couldve provided to Barclays in 
response to the letter they sent, that wouldve changed the outcome of the 
chargeback claim. Ms Ws dispute is with the scammer who didnt provide the 
furniture  but a chargeback cant be raised against the scammer directly. The 
chargeback was raised against T, in line with the chargeback scheme, however T as 
a merchant was paid to provide a money remittance service  which they provided. I 
realise that this can be confusing, but in this case, Ms W received from T the service 
she paid for. The fact that Ms W paid the funds to T as the result of a scam, wouldnt 
change that position. Also, Ms W not knowing that she was making a card payment 
through T, rather than directly to the scammer, wouldnt change the outcome.
When Ms W contacted Barclays and asked them to recover her money, she was told 
they would send a letter out to her. On that call, Ms W told Barclays she would be 
away from home on business and wouldnt have access to her mail. Barclays 
suggested that if Ms W hadnt received the letter before she left for her work trip, she 
should call their fraud team and was given their phone number. Ms W was told that 
Barclays would be able to tell her what had been sent out and what she needed to do 
next. 
Ms W has referred to the Push Payment Scam Code and Barclays obligations under 
it. Ms W is referring to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model  the CRM Code. But the CRM Code only covers push payments, for example 
bank transfers. Ms W didnt make a push payment, she made a card payment, which 
isnt covered by the code. So, Barclays has no obligations under the CRM Code, and 
I cant fairly apply the terms of the CRM Code to Ms Ws case. 
I realise that Ms W is very disappointed that Barclays havent done more to help her recover 
her funds. But from what Ive seen, Barclays have taken the appropriate action of raising a 
chargeback claim, although I appreciate it was declined. And, although Ms W didnt receive 
the letter from Barclays in time to provide her evidence for the chargeback claim, Im not 
persuaded that it affects the outcome of this case. As Im not satisfied there is anything     
Ms W couldve provided that wouldve resulted in a successful chargeback claim. In this 
case, Barclays has taken the steps I wouldve expected in order to try and recover Ms Ws 
funds.
Having considered everything very carefully, I cant see that Barclays has done anything 
wrong and cant fairly ask them to refund Ms W.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman