DRN-3596855
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Shawbrook accepted this but has not confirmed its offer of settlement. So, Ive been asked 
to make a decision to confirm what Shawbrook must do to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has accepted our adjudicators assessment that the complaint should be upheld. 
So, I dont need to decide whether there was a misrepresentation  as that has been 
accepted  only what must happen to put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr Bs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr B has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman