DRN-3088206
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
settled a claim theyve made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
A representative has raised this complaint on behalf of Mr B and Mrs W and references I 
make to their actions include those of their representative. For ease of reading Ive referred 
to Mrs W throughout as she originally raised the complaint with RSA.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I have provided a summary 
of what happened.
Mrs W has a buildings insurance policy branded with the name of a high street bank, 
underwritten by RSA.
In 2018, Mrs W noticed some damage to her property and reported this to RSA to 
make a claim.
After some investigation by a subsidence expert, the claim was declined in 2019 on 
the basis RSA considered the foundations to be defective.
Mrs W sought advice from a builder and architect who she said recommended 
demolishing the damaged garage and bedroom above it.
Mrs W decided to go ahead with the remedial work which she paid for herself.
Following the rebuilding work, Mrs W provided RSA with evidence from her builder 
saying he considered the foundations had been adequate.
RSA issued a final response in March 2020 detailing the reason for the original 
declinature but agreeing to deal with the claim in light of the new evidence.
RSA said if it had been given the opportunity, it would have been able to repair the 
damage.
But as the rebuilding work had already been completed, it would offer a cash 
settlement for the amount it would have cost it to undertake the repairs.
Mrs W was unhappy and said RSA should pay for the demolition and rebuilding work 
but it disagreed so Mrs W brought the complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and was satisfied RSA would have been 
able to repair the damage so only needed to pay the amount of the repairs.
Mrs W asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing for 
Mrs W so Ill explain my reasoning.
I recognise the circumstances of the subsidence and subsequent claim have been difficult 
for Mrs W. The nature of my role is that I must assess the evidence from an independent 
and unbiased perspective and reach a decision I consider fair and reasonable to both parties 
to the dispute. That may mean at times my decision sounds rather matter of fact and I mean 
no disrespect by this, its just the nature of my role
This decision focuses on Mrs Ws complaint to RSA about its proposal to cash settle the 
claim based on the cost of repairs to the property, covered in its final response in December 
2020. For the reasons the investigator explained, Im not considering the original declinature 
of the claim which RSA subsequently changed on receipt of further evidence, under this 
decision.
The policy terms
I have started by considering the terms of the policy as these explain what the parties can 
expect form the insurance contract. Under the section How to make a claim it explains:
Our approach to claims is to repair or replace lost or damaged property where we 
consider it appropriate. And weve built a network of contractors, repairers and 
product suppliers dedicated to providing this service.  
If instead we agree to a cash settlement where we couldve offered repair or 
replacement, the payment wont normally exceed the amount wed have paid our 
contractor, repairer or supplier
So, Im satisfied RSA is entitled to make a cash settlement. Having established that, Ive 
then gone on to consider the circumstances which led it to doing so.
The expert evidence
RSAs subsidence expert undertook an inspection of the property during the investigation 
into the claim and produced a detailed report with analysis of the damage and cause, 
accompanied by photos and comprehensive explanations. It concluded that the cracks at the 
property were between five and fifteen millimetres, meaning Category 3 or moderate in the 
Building Research Establishment (BRE) Digest 251 guide to identifying crack severity. 
Having referred to the digest, it seems to me cracks in this category are fairly straightforward 
to repair.
RSA says the minor structural movement behind the cracks was caused by trees owned by 
Mrs Ws neighbours. For this type and extent of damage, RSA says it would have removed 
the vegetation which would have provided stability and would then have repaired the 
building. This seems to be consistent with the BRE guide.
In support of her case, Mrs W has presented some commentary from her builder about the 
damage and this concluded: 
It is my opinion that the extension was not safe and could not be underpinned safely 
given the amount of damage caused to footings and subsoil around these and the 
degree of movement in the building
Notably, it doesnt however state demolition and rebuild was the only option and theres 
nothing to suggest why it would be.
On balance, I find the evidence from RSAs subsidence expert to be more persuasive and I 
think it was fair for RSA to rely on it in concluding the property would have been repairable if 
it had been given the opportunity to do so. It follows, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to cash settle the claim as remedial work had already been undertaken. And Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the calculation of the amount of the cash settlement was unfair. 
While I understand why Mrs W decided to proceed with the demolition and rebuild of the 
garage following the advice she received that the building was unsafe, this advice didnt 
come from RSA or its agents. And as RSA had its own expert appointed who has given 
detailed reasoning on the steps they felt necessary to repair the home, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to hold RSA responsible for the costs she incurred as a result of 
advice she received from third parties. So, I wont be upholding this complaint or directing 
RSA to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman