DRN-3680404
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) didnt offer him 
enough for his vehicle when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his vehicle. In May 2022 his vehicle 
was written off, so Mr S made a claim.
Admiral agreed to settle Mr Ss claim and offered him £31,236 for his vehicle, less his 
excess.
Mr S wasnt happy about the amount hed been offered for it and he complained. Admiral 
then increased its offer to £32,430.
Mr S remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He says he cannot 
replace the vehicle with an equivalent one for less than £35,000 and he asks for a settlement 
by Admiral of at least this amount.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought 
Admiral had acted fairly in offering £32,430. 
Admiral didnt have any comments to make about the view, but Mr S didnt agree with it. He 
asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why, but my rationale is the same as 
our investigators.
I can see from Admirals policy wording that it will pay the market value of a vehicle. In the 
policy wording it defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Our Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Mr S has supplied copies of adverts hes found showing that a similar vehicle would be 
valued between £35,000 and about £40,000. Ive looked carefully at his evidence and I can 
see that the vehicles in the adverts are often of a different specification to his, so the values 
will be different from what Mr S expects. The adverts are retail prices and so dont track the 
actual sale price of a vehicle, which may be subject to some negotiation.
The valuation of a used vehicle isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the 
industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a vehicle. And its 
not unreasonable that it does so as the valuations the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar vehicles with similar age and mileage for sale at 
the time of loss. We usually find the valuation guides are more reliable than individual 
adverts.
Its also important that I say that the valuation is taken when the loss happened. Prices will 
vary over time, and the current second hand vehicle market means that these prices may be 
lower or higher than when the vehicle was damaged.
If I use Mr Ss vehicle details I can see that three values are available from the valuation 
guide companies:
Company A - £35,144
Company B - £32,430
Company C - £32,250
Its this services approach that when one of the values is substantially different from the 
other two, then it is discounted. So I have removed Company As value from the calculation. 
Admiral offered Mr S £32,430, which is the same as the higher of the remaining two 
companies.
So Im satisfied that Admirals settlement offer was made correctly according to our 
approach. And I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman