DRN-1350027
 
Complaint
Mrs P says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Mrs P had four loans with Lending Stream. The first for £400 in June 2015 and then three 
more for between £1,150 and £1,200 in January and October 2017 and then August 2018.
Our adjudicator considered this complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs P didn't 
accept this view; she said she'd missed payments on other loans and could only afford to 
repay Lending Stream by borrowing elsewhere. She thought her 'severe financial situation' 
meant Lending Stream was wrong to approve her loans.
As there was no agreement, Mrs P's complaint was passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs 
P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Mrs P's first loan was taken out in June 2015 and was for £400; the largest repayment for 
this loan was under £200. I think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for this 
loan, which included asking Mrs P to provide information about her income and expenditure. 
As that information suggested the loan was affordable, I don't think Lending Stream acted 
unfairly by approving the first loan.
The next three loans were taken out after a long break, in 2017 and then in 2018. There 
were substantial breaks between these loans too; loan two ended in April 2017 and Mrs P 
asked for loan three in October 2017. Loan three ended in April 2018 and Mrs P asked for 
loan four in August 2018. Looking at the overall pattern of lending and all the other relevant 
factors, I don't think Lending Stream ought to have suspected Mrs P was dependent on its 
loans, or was repaying them in a way which wasn't sustainable.
I've thought carefully about what Mrs P said in response to the adjudicator. But I've not seen 
evidence Mrs P had mortgage arrears when she took out her loans with Lending Stream. 
And, even if she did, I think Lending Stream  was entitled to rely on the income and 
expenditure information Mrs P provided as part of its affordability assessment. Equally, I wouldn't have expected Lending Stream to pay close attention to the broader circumstances 
of Mrs P's use of short-term loans from other businesses given the relatively small number of 
loans it provided to her.
So while I understand it will be disappointing for Mrs P, I do not think her complaint should 
be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs P's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman