DRN-3471678
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) is that he 
lost money because of problems he experienced when trying to sell some shares.  
What happened
Mr B holds an execution only trading account with HL. Early on 6 April 2021, having started 
the day with a zero cash balance on his account, Mr B attempted to sell his shares in a 
company (company A). The shares were worth approximately £169.
Due to an error with HLs system, the sale was copied a further four times leaving Mr Bs 
account with a credit balance of over £800. Using almost all that credit Mr B bought shares 
in another company (company B) which he sold a short time later, using the proceeds to 
buy shares in a third company (company C). That left Mr B with a cash balance close to 
zero.
Later the same day HL realised a mistake had been made and reversed the trades that had 
been copied. That left Mr B with a deficit of over £600 on his account. To put his account 
back in credit Mr B sold the shares in company C on 7 April.
When Mr B saw the negative balance, he complained to HL that money had been taken from 
his account and he had missed the opportunity to make other investments. HL apologised to 
Mr B that the problem with their system had caused duplicate trades to be recorded on his 
account. They said they had restored his account to the position it would have been in had 
the duplicate trades not taken place. HL said they werent liable for any investment loss 
because of trades Mr B was unable to place while trying to resolve the issue.
Mr B was unhappy with HLs response and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator thought Mr B should have been aware that the credit balance of over £800 
was the result of an error and not an accurate reflection of the activity on his account. 
He said it was reasonable for HL to have reversed the trades that had been copied in error. 
Once they had done so, Mr B decided to sell his shares in company C to bring his account 
back into credit. Our investigator thought that, although Mr B could have brought himself 
back into credit with a cash deposit, HL should compensate Mr B for the loss of £68.92 at 
which he had sold those shares.  
HL accepted they should compensate Mr B for the losses he suffered in the trades he made 
following their system error. They offered to pay a total of £93.04  the losses on the shares 
in company C recommended by our investigator, plus losses of £24.12 on the shares in 
company B. 
Mr B did not accept our investigators findings, or the offer made by HL, and has asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HL have accepted that there was an error with their system and have apologised to Mr B 
for that. In situations where a business has made a mistake, our approach is to put the 
consumer as close to the position they would now be in if nothing had gone wrong. 
The systems error caused Mr Bs sale of shares in company A to be copied four additional 
times. That left his account with a balance of over £800 rather than approximately £169. 
I think Mr B would most likely have been aware that some kind of mistake had been made 
before he bought the shares in company B and then company C. His account had a zero 
balance at the start of the day (6 April), and I think he would have known approximately how 
much the shares in company A would sell for. So, I think he ought to have realised that 
something had gone wrong when he saw a balance of over £800 showing on his account 
and before he used that balance to buy shares in other companies.
Once HL became aware that an error had been made, they promptly deducted the funds that 
had been incorrectly credited to Mr Bs account earlier the same day. Although that left the 
account with a negative balance, I think it was fair and reasonable for HL to do so. 
Mr B says he lost out on the opportunity to make other trades because his account was in 
deficit. But, as Ive already noted, Mr B had gone ahead and bought other shares even 
though he ought to have realised that the balance showing on his account was inaccurate. 
And Ive not seen enough evidence to say Mr B lost out because of any missed opportunity 
to trade. 
Once Mr Bs account was in deficit, I think it was his responsibility to decide how to put it 
back in credit. And on 7 April he decided to sell the shares in company C that he had bought 
the previous day. As I dont think Mr B would have made the trades in company B and 
company C if it wasnt for HLs systems error, I think it would be fair and reasonable for HL to 
compensate Mr B for the total losses of £93.04 he incurred on those trades.   
I know Mr B feels strongly about what happened and appreciate this will be a disappointing 
decision for him, but I wont be asking HL to do anything more than pay the compensation 
they have now offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold in part Mr Bs complaint 
against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.  
To compensate Mr B fairly, HL should pay him £93.04.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman