DRN-3608917
The complaint
Mr P complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for
their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle first registered in
about 2010.
For the year from July 2021, Mr P had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with esure.
Any claim for damage (except windscreen damage) was subject to a policy excess totalling
£300.00.
Unfortunately, in early January 2022, the sunroof got stuck open. Mr P contacted esure who
collected the car. There was no evidence that anyone had forced the sunroof. But the car
suffered water damage. The estimated repair costs were over £10,000.00.
Mr P complained to esure that it was responsible for the water damage and it had 
undervalued his car.
According to esure, it wrote a final response dated early February 2022, turning down the
complaint about valuation. It offered to pay its pre-accident valuation of £6,607.00, less a
deduction of £1,219.00 for pre-existing damage (a balance of £5,388.00). It said Mr P could
keep the damaged car if esure deducted a salvage fee of £2,005.00. So esure said it was
sending Mr P a cheque for £3,083.00, subject to the policy excess.
Mr P says he hadnt received that response at the time he brought his complaint to us in
March 2022.
By a final response dated later in March 2022, esure turned down the complaint about water
damage. Mr P sent esure a photograph of the vehicle outside the repairer. In early April
2022, esure changed its position about the water ingress. It said it was sending £300.00
compensation to Mr Ps bank account.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that:
£300.00 was fair.
esure didnt act unfairly when choosing to not repair the vehicle.
The valuation esure provided was a fair one.
By deducting £1,219.00, esure hadnt acted unfairly.
The deduction for salvage was fair.
By not providing a courtesy car, esure hadnt acted unfairly.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to esure on 27 June 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied that £300.00 was enough compensation to fairly compensate Mr P
for the distress and inconvenience for which esure was responsible. I was minded 
that £450.00 would be fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from esure, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr P  in 
addition to what it had already paid him  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr P disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
He had the car for years
The car didn't have water ingress, it only had a problem with the roof. 
His vehicle was dry and water- free before it left his house and should have stayed 
that way.
Before the car left his property, he had conversations with them on the phone in 
January where they promised this would be resolved and also that his car was going 
to be kept in a secure location.
esure failed in their duty of care and responsibility to him.
Nobody is looking at the problem as he sees it.
The body shop should pay for the extra damage and then the car wouldnt be a write 
off.
esure said on the phone that any water damage would be put right at the repairers 
expense. This clearly hasnt happened as they are trying to write it off because of the 
damage caused while in their care.
He wants the car repaired by them as they promised or pay him to have it repaired.
esure hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy didnt cover mechanical faults, but it did cover accidental damage. I think Mr P
accepts that the sunroof had a fault that wasnt covered by the policy. So esure shouldvegiven him the car back for him to get it fixed.
Later esure accepted that it was responsible for water ingress. That shouldnt have
happened. But esure didnt have to pay Mr P any more than the market value of the car
immediately before the water damage. 
I dont consider that esure shouldve paid the cost of repairs if they exceeded the value of 
the car immediately before the damage. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr P believed that esure 
would make the repairer pay for the damage, I havent seen enough evidence that esure 
ever agreed not to write the vehicle off.
The Financial Ombudsman Service expects insurers to assess pre-accident market value by
reference to the retail values in the trade guides. The guides are based on extensive 
research of likely selling prices. So we regard them as persuasive.
Advertisements for the sale of cars usually contain asking prices that are subject to
negotiation downwards. So we regard them as less persuasive evidence of likely selling
prices.
For a vehicle like Mr Ps, at the time of the loss, Ive seen retail valuations in the trade
guides as follows:
Glasss £5,900.00
CAP £5,940.00
Cazana £7,041.00
Parkers £7,547.00
So the figures ranged from under £6,000.00 to over £7,500.00.
The esure valuation of £6,607.00 was within the range of the trade guide figures. So I dont
consider that figure was unfair. Ive looked carefully at the estimate for repair and I can see
that most of it relates to the water damage. But I dont consider that esure treated Mr P
unfairly by making a deduction of £1,219.00 for the defective sunroof.
Once esure had paid Mr P, the damaged car wouldve become esures property. But Mr P
kept the damaged car  and esure deducted a salvage payment. That salvage payment was
about £2,000.00. Compared to the pre-accident valuation, the salvage payment was a high
percentage. But esure has provided evidence that its salvage company wouldve paid
£2,005.00.
Ive thought about whether esures deduction is unfair because its favourable commercial
arrangement is having too great an impact on Mr P who wanted to keep his damaged car.
But, in the context of a 2010 car with a defective sunroof and internal water damage, I dont
find that the deduction of about £2,000.00 was unfair to Mr P.
Overall I can see why Mr P feels out of pocket. But Im satisfied that esure has paid enough
to put Mr P back in the financial position he was in immediately before the water damage.
I accept that the water damage  for which esure accepted responsibility  caused Mr P
distress and inconvenience. He suffered the upset of finding out about the preventable water
damage. And esure made that worse by maintaining that it wasnt responsible. That went on
from January to April  when esure accepted responsibility and paid £300.00 compensation.Putting things right
Overall, Im not satisfied that £300.00 was enough compensation to fairly compensate Mr P
for the distress and inconvenience for which esure was responsible. I consider that £450.00
would be fair and reasonable. So I will direct esure to pay Mr P  in addition to what it has 
already paid him  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr P  in addition to what it has already paid him  a 
further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman