DRN-2093802
The complaint
Mrs L complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance didnt 
change her car on her insurance policy when she asked it to.
What happened
Mrs L has a car insurance policy with Direct Line. In June 2019 Mrs L purchased a new car 
and called Direct Line to swap the car on her insurance. She explained that she didnt need 
to change the car until the following Monday and was given the cost of how much her direct 
debits would increase to. The advisor said he would save the quote for her to call in on the 
Monday. They then had a conversation about an increase to Mrs Ls mileage. Mrs L was 
then transferred to another department to pay for the increase to the mileage.
In August 2019 Mrs L was pulled over by the police as she didnt have insurance for her car. 
She complained as she had telephoned Direct Line to say that she had a new car and to get 
it switched over. She said shed been paying her premiums and feels that Direct Line made 
the error that led to her being pulled over.
Direct Line explained that the telephone call made it clear that Mrs L asked for a quote only 
and said she would call back the following Monday if she wished to proceed. It explained she 
hadnt paid a higher premium and it was up to her to ensure she was covered. During the 
investigation into her complaint, Direct Line asked Mrs L whether English was her first 
language. Mrs L was very upset with this and felt shed been discriminated against. Direct 
Line offered to refund Mrs Ls premiums during the time her car wasnt covered. It also 
offered £50 compensation as it felt it couldve handled the conversation about her complaint 
better.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. He explained that the advisor in the call 
made it clear that he had saved the quote and that he hadnt switched the cars on the policy. 
He also explained that he didnt think the advisor looking at the complaint was trying to upset 
Mrs L but that he felt the £50 Direct Line offered was fair. 
Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision. She explained she had 
asked to change her car and this shouldve been done. The mistake led to her having her 
car impounded and she had to go to court. She also feels she was treated differently by the 
advisor over the phone when complaining.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance for Mrs Ls new car
Ive listened to the call where Mrs L asked to change her car. Its clear that this was her 
intention, especially as she had told Direct Line that she had sold her old car. I also think that 
Mrs L finished the call thinking she was covered. But Ive had to decide whether I think Direct 
Line did enough to notify Mrs L that she wasnt covered for her new car. And I think that it 
did. Ill explain why.
During the call Direct Line told Mrs L how much the increase on her direct debits would be to 
change the car. Mrs L then asked whether she could call back on the Monday. At this point 
Direct Line made it clear that it was saving the change as a quote. Throughout the call Mrs L 
also asked if it could offer a better price and Direct Line confirmed that it had given her the 
best price available. The conversation continued to the mileage change. Mrs L wanted to 
increase her mileage and wanted to pay for the increase on that call. Just before Mrs L was 
transferred to pay for that increase Direct Line confirmed it had saved the car change as a 
quote for Monday.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mrs L thought she was then covered, I do think Direct Line made it 
clear it was a quote and wasnt a confirmed change. And in any event I can see that Direct 
Line sent Mrs L a new policy schedule on 7 June 2019 (the same date as the call) which 
showed the mileage change but that the registration of the car was the same as her old car. 
So, I think Direct Line did enough to show Mrs L that she wasnt covered for her new vehicle. 
I also cant see that Mrs Ls premiums changed, which wouldve also alerted her that she 
might not be covered for her new vehicle. It was Mrs Ls responsibility to ensure that she 
was covered for the vehicle she was driving so I dont think Direct Line made an error here.
I can see Direct Line offered to refund Mrs Ls premiums that shes paid for the months that 
her old car was covered instead of her new car. Mrs L declined this offer and it would be up 
to her to contact Direct Line if she would like to reconsider.
Customer service
Mrs L has also complained about the way she was treated during her calls with Direct Line 
after she found out she wasnt covered. Specifically, she is unhappy that she was asked 
whether English was her first language. I can understand why this may have been upsetting 
to Mrs L, but I can see that Direct Line has acknowledged that it couldve dealt with this call 
better. It has given Mrs L £50 compensation and I think this is fair. 
Ive listened to the call and I cant see Direct Line was treating Mrs L differently. I think it was 
trying to determine what had happened and whether it had done enough originally to make 
Mrs L aware that she wasnt covered which Id expect it to do in all situations when problems 
like this happen. So, whilst I can see why Mrs L was upset by the question, I think Direct 
Line has recognised this and has done enough to put this right. And I cant see that Mrs L 
was treated any differently when it investigated the issues shed experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman