DRN-1584761
The complaint
S complains that Bellegrove Limited (trading as Bellegrove Business Insurance) 
(Bellegrove) mis-sold it a policy of insurance with the result that it traded without insurance 
for two years. It says it should be refunded the insurance premiums it paid during this period. 
Bellegrove is represented in bringing this complaint by a former director, Mr S.
What happened
In May 2017, S contacted Bellegrove, an insurance broker, to arrange insurance for its 
recently established business, which was the building and preparing of competition racing 
and rally cars. Mr S says that he discussed the nature of the business with Bellegrove, and 
was assured that the policy it had recommended was appropriate for Ss business.
The policy was renewed in May 2018. In October 2018, S told Bellegrove it occasionally 
painted customer cars, not usually complete cars but when they had sustained minor 
damage while racing/rallying. It asked for this to be included in its insurance, which the 
insurers agreed.
Following discussions between Bellegrove and S when the policy came up for renewal in 
May 2019, the true nature of Ss business became clear to Bellegrove. After checking with 
the insurers, it told S that the policy wasnt appropriate for the specialist business S was 
engaged in, and now that the insurers were aware of the true nature of this business they 
wouldnt renew the policy.
S complained to Bellegrove. It believed that effectively it had been uninsured during the two 
years since May 2017, and if it had made a claim under the policy this would have been 
rejected. It said that Bellegrove had mis-sold the policy, and the premiums it had paid, 
totalling £7,896.67, should be returned to it.
Bellegrove said there was nothing in its file to suggest S had disclosed to it the true nature of 
its business. If it had, it wouldnt have provided a quotation. At renewal in May 2018, the 
statement of fact it sent to S disclosed the companys business as 100% the mechanical 
service and repair of standard private cars. S hadnt contacted it to correct this. So it didnt 
accept that it had mis-sold the policy.
Bellegrove said that because S had failed to make a fair presentation of risk, there were 
circumstances under the Insurance Act 2015 in which the insurers could have avoided the 
policy, or applied different terms. However, no claim had in fact arisen. Bellegrove had 
passed on to the insurers Ss request for the premiums to be returned, but the insurers 
hadnt responded.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that no 
recordings were available of the phone conversations between S and Bellegrove when the 
policy was arranged in 2017. So there wasnt enough evidence for her to say S was misled 
during the sale of the insurance.
If S had made a claim under the policy, and the insurers had refused the claim because of 
non-disclosure by S, we would have looked at the application process to see if this refusal 
was reasonable in the light of the questions S had been asked. If the questions werent clear 
enough to bring out the true nature of Ss business, we might have asked the insurers to 
cover the claim.
Fortunately, S didnt have to make a claim, so there wasnt enough to say it wouldnt have 
been covered under the policy.
Also, if Bellegrove had told S at the outset that it couldnt provide cover, S would have to 
have arranged cover elsewhere and paid a premium to another insurer  most probably of a 
higher amount. In these circumstances, the investigator thought S hadnt suffered any 
financial detriment, and so it wouldnt be fair to ask Bellegrove to take any action.
Bellegrove accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he felt S had paid a large amount of money and 
effectively had received nothing. He also asked why recordings of the phone calls made 
when the policy was arranged were not now available.
The investigator said Bellegrove had confirmed it wasnt its practice to record phone calls. 
However, it said it made detailed file notes of every conversation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I have concluded, like the investigator, that:
there isnt enough evidence for me to say, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Bellegrove mis-sold the policy to S. Bellegroves file notes contain no mention of the 
specialised nature of Ss business. And I note that the statement of fact that 
Bellegrove sent to S on renewal in May 2018 for it to check describes its business as 
100% the mechanical service and repair of standard private cars, and S didnt correct 
this;
its not certain that if S had made a claim under the policy the insurers would have 
refused it, or, if they had, that we would have thought it was fair for them to do so; 
and
S hasnt suffered any financial loss because it hasnt had a claim declined, and its 
likely that it would always have paid for insurance for its business, probably at a 
higher rate than it has paid.
For these reasons I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require Bellegrove to refund 
the two years premiums S has paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Bellegrove 
Limited (trading as Bellegrove Business Insurance).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman