DRN-1857637
 
The complaint
Mr L and Dr B say that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them a regular premium 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
In 1993 Mr L and Dr B took out a mortgage with NBS. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy. The policy covered their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr L wasnt able to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. 
Nationwide say that taking the PPI was a condition of the fixed rate mortgage on offer at the 
time. Mr L and Dr B say the cover wasnt needed and it wasnt made clear to them they 
could cancel the policy on the expiry of the fixed rate. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr L and Dr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought they 
wouldve understood the PPI was a condition of their mortgage and that it wouldve provided 
a useful benefit.
Mr L and Dr B disagree. They do not believe the policy was a condition of the mortgage 
because the example of the NBS offer leaflet given was for first time buyers which they say 
they werent. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Dr Bs complaint.
Mr L and Dr B are not convinced that taking PPI was a condition of their mortgage because 
the offer leaflet NBS provided related to first time buyers. But the leaflet NBS provided was 
just an example of one product that what was on offer at the time. 
Ive seen copies of Mr L and Dr Bs mortgage statements from July 1993 when they first took 
out their mortgage, to 1995. I can see that the mortgage was on a fixed interest rate of 5.75% 
for the first year and 6.75% for the second year. This matches the rate offered to first time 
buyers in the example leaflet provided. And I can also see that under the terms and 
conditions of the fixed rate mortgage that PPI was required for the fixed term. 
With this in mind I think it is likely Mr L and Dr B  had this mortgage package. I can also see 
that the mortgage was an interest only mortgage. In this situation from what I understand 
about lending at the time, I think its fair to say that it was not uncommon for businesses 
including NBS to sell mortgages with a condition that PPI was taken. This is not unfair or mis-selling  the business is entitled to decide on what basis they wish to 
lend to customers. And it is up to the customer to decide if they are happy with the terms and 
conditions of the lending on offer  if they are not they are free to go elsewhere.
That being said NBS should have made Mr L and Dr B aware that PPI was a condition of the 
mortgage. Understandably due to the passage of time NBS no longer has any of the 
mortgage documentation from Mr L and Dr Bs sale. So Ive had make my decision based on 
what information I have and what I think is more likely to have happened. 
The mortgage was taken out during a meeting. Based on what Mr L and Dr B have said and 
the type of mortgage they had, I think its likely PPI was a condition of the lending. I think this 
condition wouldve been discussed and an explanation of what PPI is given, because it 
provided important cover for one of the biggest financial commitments one can make during 
their lifetime. 
So on balance, at the time the mortgage was taken out and the policy sold, I think Mr L and 
Dr B wouldve understood that they had a PPI policy as part of their mortgage package and 
they agreed to this because they wanted the fixed rate on offer as part of the package. 
NBS say that when the fixed rate on Mr L and Dr Bs mortgage expired they wouldve been 
sent an annual renewal notice and insurance schedule telling them they had the right to 
cancel their policy and have provided examples of the type of documentation sent. Having 
looked at this I think it is likely that Mr L and Dr B wouldve been sent a renewal notice and 
understood when their fixed rate came to an end they could cancel their policy - as they were 
no longer bound by the fixed rate mortgage package conditions. Though I can understand 
given the amount of time that has passed why they might not remember this.
From what we know of NBS PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think it was any different here. What this means is that 
NBS didnt recommend PPI to Mr L and Dr B, it just gave them information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that were clear, fair and not misleading so they 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if NBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I think 
Mr L and Dr B wouldve still taken the mortgage with PPI if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
Mr L was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like Mr L wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Mr L says he was entitled to a sick pay and didnt need the policy. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this and covered their mortgage payments for potentially 
longer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr L and Dr B in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment and had a young a family. Given the implications if they were 
unable to meet their repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr L and Dr B. 
 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L and Dr 
B.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L and Dr B because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told them about 
that. Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L and Dr B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr L and Dr B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman