DRN-2737383
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined a claim
made under his home insurance policy.
 
What happened
In February 2020 following bad weather Mr H made a claim to LV, the provider of his home
insurance, for storm damage to his property. Along with damage to the roof of his home,
water entered Mr Hs property causing damage internally and to contents items.
LV appointed a supplier to inspect the damage. Following this LV declined the claim for
external damage on the basis they thought it was maintenance and wear and tear rather
than storm related. But LV said they would consider the internal damage and damaged
contents items.
Mr H was unhappy the external damage was declined so he complained to LV. They
maintained their position. But they gave Mr H £100 for delays in the claim.
As Mr H remained unhappy he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that she thought the
damage being claimed for was consistent with storm damage, and the storm was the main
cause. She said that LV had incorrectly declined the claim based on a different area of the
roof and hadnt shown the exclusion applied. So she said that LV should consider any
reasonable costs to fix the roof, and add 8% interest.
LV didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but I reached a slightly different 
view on what LV needed to do to put things right. So I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I made my final decision. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold the complaint for similar reasons to our 
investigator. But how Im minded to say LV should put things right is slightly different, 
so Im issuing a provisional decision to allow both parties to comment, before I reach 
my final decision.
Mr Hs policy provides cover for storm damage, along with a number of other insured 
events. LV declined Mr Hs external storm damage claim on the basis that the storm 
highlighted wear and tear and poor workmanship issues with the roof, and this is 
excluded under his policy.
As the internal damage and contents items have been accepted by LV, I wont 
comment on these further. Instead Ill consider whether it was fair and reasonable for 
LV to decline the claim for external storm damage.
When we look at complaints about storm damage claims, we consider three main 
questions. If any of the answers to the three questions are no then its likely a claim 
wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of loss. LV also 
accept that the storm conditions could also have been stronger than those recorded 
at the nearest weather station, as Mr Hs property is in an exposed location.
As this point isnt in dispute, I wont comment further on it.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage
Mr Hs property has suffered damage to the roof tiles, hips and felt, along with lifting 
of the lead flashing. And there has been an ingress of water which has caused 
damage inside Mr Hs home. This type of damage is consistent with storm damage, 
in the right conditions.
Although as LV has pointed out, some of the lead flashing that lifted was along the 
hips of the roof, which wouldnt ordinarily be used in this location. But regardless of 
that, lifting of lead flashing more generally is consistent with storm damage (if it was 
in the correct location, and in the correct conditions).
Was the storm the dominant cause of damage
Whether the storm was the dominant cause of the damage being claimed for is 
whats key here.
LV says it wasnt. They say that the maintenance of Mr Hs property was poor, and 
the storm has highlighted wear and tear and poor workmanship, rather than being the 
dominant cause of damage.
Ive seen the report carried out by LVs contractor and the photos taken from ground 
level. They said that there are numerous areas of age related deterioration to the 
main roof, hips and dormers, which also had historic repairs and lead flashing where 
youd expect hip tiles to be. Theyve said the lead flashing along the hips isnt good 
building practice. And LV have also relied on google street view images which they 
say show evidence of poor workmanship and wear and tear to the roof.
They said there are numerous broken or slipped tiles which has contributed to the 
water ingress. And they said there is deflection and failure to the lead upstands which 
has allowed water to enter the property.Having reviewed the images and report from LVs surveyor, I agree with their 
comments on the lead flashing and that some tiles also appear to have slipped in the 
earlier google images. So if this was the damage being claimed for by Mr H, I might 
have concluded LVs conclusions that it was wear and tear or poor workmanship 
related were reasonable.
However, Mr H has explained this isnt the area of damage being claimed for. And I 
dont think LV has done enough to demonstrate these areas of damage being 
claimed for are wear and tear or poor workmanship rather than storm related.
This is because LV didnt inspect the roof in the affected areas, as they didnt actually
access the roof or see these from ground level. Rather LV are using the condition of 
other areas of the roof not being claimed for to decline the claim instead. And I dont 
think thats fair or reasonable or that by doing this LV has shown the exclusion 
applies.
Mr H has since had repair works carried out to the areas he claimed for. His 
contractor confirmed the general condition of the roof was good and that the lathes 
and underfelt were also very good. He commented the work he carried out was 
typical of storm damage with lifted tiles and ripped felt, which he believed was 
caused by strong winds. He also said that the lead flashing which LV had used in the 
reasoning to decline the claim wasnt ideal, but this was nothing to do with the area of 
damage he repaired. He said the repaired area was a completely different section of 
the roof.
An internal note from LVs file also shows that when the claim was first declined, LV
contacted the supplier who visited and inspected the internal damage (which LV has
accepted) and they said that there are two areas where water has come into the 
property. They said they didnt appear to have been longstanding and were fresh. 
This also indicates that the damage and resultant internal damage being claimed for 
was relatively recent. If it was a longstanding maintenance or wear and tear issue, 
then its unlikely they would have concluded that.
So, as I said, if the area being claimed for was the same as where LV had inspected 
from ground level and using google images, then the wear and tear or maintenance 
conclusion might not have been unreasonable. But they are different areas to those 
being claimed for. And I dont think LV has shown those areas were wear and tear 
related rather than storm damaged, and the information from both Mr Hs contractor, 
and LVs own agent also indicate otherwise.
With this in mind, and unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude LV should deal with Mr Hs claim for 
storm damage to the affected areas of the roof hes had repaired, and that 8% 
interest should be added to any cash settlement from date of payment to date of 
settlement.
But Mr Hs repair invoice also includes repairing chimney damage, and Mr H accepts 
that this shouldnt be covered. But the invoice isnt broken down, and LV may need 
more information in order to determine the actual costs Mr H has incurred in repairing 
the storm damaged elements only.So at this stage I cant decide the amount specifically, because LV would need to 
consider the invoice and breakdown to be able to consider the costs in connection to 
the storm related damage. And this might need Mr H to obtain further information 
from the repairer for LV to be able to do so. On this basis Im minded to say LV 
should deal with the roof storm damage repairs, with 8% interest added for any cash 
settlement. And if there is ultimately a dispute over the amount payable by LV, we 
may be able to consider that as a new separate complaint about the settlement 
amount due.
LV also gave Mr H £100 compensation for the initial delays in the claim. But its clear 
that declining the claim for external repairs, and Mr H needing to deal with this 
himself has caused him additional distress and inconvenience. So Im also minded to 
say LV should also give Mr H a further £100 compensation.
I explained that I was minded to uphold the complaint and say it wasnt fair or reasonable for 
LV to rely on other areas of the roof to apply an exclusion to an area they hadnt seen. 
Unless anything changed, I said I was minded to direct LV to deal with the claim for storm 
damage to the affected areas only. And to add 8% simple interest to any cash settlement 
and pay a further £100 compensation. But I also said that the invoice didnt break down what 
was and wasnt storm related or the associated costs. So I said ultimately if that couldnt be 
agreed, then that would be a new separate complaint about the settlement amount. 
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr H responded agreeing with my provisional decision and he said he had nothing to add.
LV responded with some additional comments. They said that their supplier did inspect the 
roof, but it doesnt appear they inspected the side(s) where the storm damage is being 
claimed for. They said that the area they inspected appeared to be the same as where the 
internal damage was. And had they been aware of other damage in other areas, then they 
could have re-inspected.
But LV did accept that their supplier could have looked at the whole roof, and may have 
missed some of the damage, but they were following the link with the internal damage and 
information at that time.
LV also commented on the invoice and some of the works noted within this which they said 
wouldnt be storm related, including the chimney. They said that if the felt and battens 
needed replacing, the only way damage would occur here is if the tiles had been removed in 
the storm. But the invoice made reference to needing to remove tiles, implying they were still 
in situ, so this couldnt be storm related damage.
They also said its down to the policyholder to substantiate their loss, and the invoice 
contains work that wouldnt be caused by a storm. They said the only part they could 
reasonably consider would be the tiles, but it isnt clear without substantiation how many of 
the 22 were due to this or were in other areas of the roof, without a breakdown.
LV said that if my final decision remained the same as my provisional decision  that they 
need to consider some aspects of the invoice - theyd rather this be decided now to avoid 
further debate further down the line. So they said theyd be willing to compromise with 22 
tiles and half the cost of the scaffolding, on the basis scaffolding would have been needed 
anyway by Mr H to address the non-storm related damage.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully again about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and I 
havent changed my mind.
LV seem to accept that they may have missed some of the roof damage. As I outlined in my 
provisional decision, if the areas being claimed for were the same as those LV reviewed, 
then the wear and tear and/or poor workmanship conclusion might not have been 
unreasonable. But here LV didnt inspect or view the area being claimed for, and they relied 
on the condition of other parts of the roof they had seen to conclude wear and tear and poor 
workmanship to other unrelated areas. But I didnt think that was fair as LV hadnt shown the 
exclusion applied to those parts of the roof, so the claim couldnt be declined in its entirety 
on that basis.
I also note that LV said if theyd been made aware of other areas, they couldve re-
inspected. However, Mr H did make LV aware during his communication with them during 
the claim, at various times, that the damage was in areas which werent visible on the 
images theyd relied on. 
LV said the only way there could be damage to the felt and battens would be if tiles had 
been removed by the storm, but the invoice referenced removing tiles which indicated they 
were still in situ. However, the invoice mentions both removing tiles from the damaged area 
of the roof and reinstalling some saved tiles, but also fitting 22 new tiles - indicating that they 
were damaged. The contractor said that tiles had been lifted and the underfelt ripped during 
the gale force winds, indicating storm damage. The contractor also said that the lathes and 
underfelt were very good, which would indicate it wasnt a longstanding wear and tear or 
maintenance issue.
As part of their response to my provisional decision, LV suggested that the amount and 
exact items to be paid should be decided here as part of this complaint. LV has suggested a 
compromise of paying for 22 of the tiles, and half of the scaffolding and given reasons for 
this. But Im not going to do decide if that amount is reasonable here, for the same reasons 
outlined in my provisional decision. Here Ive decided that it wasnt fair or reasonable to 
outright decline all of the external damage based on the exclusion LV was relying on, 
because they hadnt inspected the damaged part of the roof being claimed for and had relied 
on another part of the roof to apply the exclusion to that unseen area.
I agree, as does Mr H, that not all the repairs on the invoice will be covered as some werent 
connected directly to the storm damage being claimed. And the invoice isnt broken down 
either to separate the costs or specific works which were solely storm related and those that 
werent. So I cant decide that here.
This is why I said LV would need to deal with the storm damage repairs only (and add 8% 
interest for any cash settlement due), rather than their current position of declining the 
entirety due to an exclusion they hadnt reasonably shown. I also said that Mr H might need 
to obtain additional information from the repairer for LV to be able to do so as this isnt clear 
from the invoice, and because clearly there are some works which (Mr H also agrees) wont 
be covered. But thats not yet been determined, as all of the damage and repairs until this 
point were declined on the basis of an exclusion, which hadnt been shown to apply to this 
part of the roof. So, if Mr H accepts my final decision, then both Mr H and LV will need to discuss the works 
and costs incurred in repairing the storm damage only (and possibly obtain further 
information to do so  and to establish what is storm related repairs and what is not). And if 
ultimately an agreement cant be reached, then we may be able to consider that as a new 
separate complaint about the settlement of the storm related repairs.
Neither party commented on the increased compensation I was minded to direct LV to pay, 
so my view on this remains the same, and for the same reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Deal with Mr Hs claim for storm damage to the affected areas of his roof that hes 
claimed for and had repaired
For any cash settlement, add 8% simple interest from date of payment of the repairs 
to date of settlement
Pay Mr H a further £100 compensation, in addition to the £100 already paid
 *If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr H, it should tell him 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman