DRN-3577692
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) damaged her car and handled 
a claim under her motor insurance policy. References to Aviva include its suppliers.
What happened
The details of the incident in question are well known to all parties involved and I wont 
repeat them all here but will mention the main points.
Mrs D notified Aviva of an incident in May 2021 when she was involved in a collision with a 
third-party vehicle. Mrs D says she was left at the roadside for four hours in the rain while 
she waited for Avivas recovery truck.
Mrs D says her car was recovered to a storage compound for written-off cars as Aviva 
considered it to have been beyond economical repair. She says this was a mistake, as the 
vehicle mileage had been input incorrectly by Avivas claims handler. When the error was 
later discovered, Aviva agreed to repair the car and Mrs D asked for it to be repaired by her 
preferred repairer.
Mrs Ds car was left in the storage compound for 12 days in total and Mrs D was able to tell 
through her cars app that it wasnt locked during that period. She had left some personal 
belongings in the car during this time which were then found to have been stolen from it.
Whilst her car was in the storage compound, Mrs D says some additional damage was 
caused to the left-hand side bodywork and also to the wheels. 
Aviva moved the car to Mrs Ds choice of repairer. It didnt tell her that, by using her own 
repairer, it would apply an additional excess of £200 to her claim. Aviva realised it hadnt told 
her, so it waived this additional excess.
Aviva decided Mrs D was at fault for the collision without consulting Mrs D further or asking 
for footage from her dashcam which Mrs D says provides evidence that the third party was 
at fault.
Aviva settled Mrs Ds claim and paid an additional £1,891.94 for the bodywork damage to 
the left-hand side of the car while it was in storage. Aviva provided a report about the 
condition of the wheels and said it believed the damage was pre-existing, so it wouldnt pay 
towards their repair. Aviva also paid £108.94 for the belongings that were stolen.
Mrs D was provided with a courtesy car by Aviva which it says she wasnt entitled to under 
the cover shed bought. Aviva says it paid for this courtesy car for about 27 days in total.
Mrs D complained to Aviva about its service. Aviva said that it had made errors in its claims 
process. It apologised to Mrs D and paid her £200 in compensation for her inconvenience.
Mrs D remained unhappy with Avivas response and brought her complaint to this service. 
She wants Aviva to reverse its finding that the accident was her fault. She also wants Aviva 
to pay for all of the damage caused to her car whilst it was in storage and pay her more than 
£200 for her distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator said that he didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. He said that Aviva had made 
several errors and the claim had taken too long to settle, so he said Mrs D should receive 
increased compensation. Aviva didnt agree it should pay extra compensation so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Liability for the collision
Its important that I say here that its not the role of this service to apportion blame or fault for 
an incident like the collision involving Mrs D. Aviva, like other insurers, will apply the terms 
and conditions of its policy when dealing with claims and its my role to decide if Aviva have 
treated her fairly and reasonably.
In Mrs Ds policy wording it says:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our 
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy. We shall have 
full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim.
This type of policy term is commonly found in car insurance policies and it lets Aviva handle 
claims at its discretion. This is most often done with a view to stopping a claim being made in 
court to save time and money and sometimes it means that Aviva makes a decision its 
customer doesnt agree with. 
Having looked at the information supplied by both Mrs D and Aviva I can understand why 
Aviva chose to exercise its rights under the policy to control the claim and admit liability. I 
also understand that Mrs D finds this frustrating and emphasises her good driving record, but 
I am satisfied that Aviva had the ability to take this action under the terms of the policy and 
have done so fairly and reasonably.
Courtesy car
Although Mrs D didnt mention the provision of a courtesy car in her initial complaint, I can 
see that the subject has been raised since then and has formed part of our investigators 
view, and Aviva have responded to it, so I will also deal with it as part of my decision.
Under Mrs Ds policy I can see that she would be entitled to a standard courtesy car which 
is further explained as a Small three-door hatchback vehicle with an engine size of 1 litre.
This courtesy car would be supplied when the car is being repaired by one of Avivas 
approved repairers:
1. If your vehicle is being repaired by an approved repairer; a courtesy vehicle will be 
provided for the duration of the repairs.
Cover under the policy goes on to say:
2. If your vehicle cannot be repaired or is stolen, a courtesy vehicle will be provided for 
up to 14 days, or until you receive your settlement.Under Avivas policy, its possible to upgrade the courtesy car to a similar type/size as the 
insured car, but Mrs D hadnt bought this level of cover. Mrs D complained that she hadnt 
been supplied a car like hers, but she wasnt entitled to this cover under the option that she 
bought, so Im unable to agree that this was unfair of Aviva.
Initially, Mrs Ds car was deemed beyond economical repair by Aviva because it had made a 
mistake with its mileage. Under the terms of her policy, Aviva supplied Mrs D with the 
courtesy car mentioned in point 2 above. When Aviva realised itd made a mistake and the 
car could be repaired, it was entitled to ask for the courtesy car to be returned. 
If Mrs D had asked for Aviva to have her car repaired by one of its approved repairers then 
she would have been entitled to the courtesy car mentioned in point 1 above. But Mrs D 
wanted her car to be repaired by her own repairer, so Aviva didnt have to provide her with a 
courtesy car under either point 1 or point 2. But Aviva let Mrs D keep the courtesy car until 
her car was repaired, so it paid for 27 days hire in total despite there being no cover under 
the policy.
Mrs D also complains that she wasnt given a courtesy car for the first six days of her claim. 
Aviva realised it didnt send the request to its supplier properly and only did so when Mrs D 
chased it up about five days after the original incident. At this stage of the claim, Mrs Ds car 
was still deemed as being beyond economical repair so she should already have had the 
courtesy car mentioned in point 2. Its clear to me that Aviva didnt supply the car when it 
should have done due to its error.
Additional damage
I can see from the evidence I have that Aviva sent an engineer out to inspect Mrs Ds car 
with a specific task to identify damage that was caused to it while it was being transported by 
Aviva or in its storage compound. Aviva agreed that the bodywork damage was done whilst 
the car was in its care and paid for its repair by Mrs Ds repairer.
Mrs D has said that Aviva damaged her cars wheels while it was in its care and shes sent 
pictures to this service of the wheels before the car was taken away. Im not able to say 
definitively whether the wheels show any pre-incident damage so on balance I must give 
greater weight to the engineers report about their condition. It follows that I think Aviva have 
reasonably shown that the damage wasnt caused while the car was in their care and Im not 
going to ask it to pay more.
Aviva have also paid for Mrs Ds belongings that were stolen from her car whilst it was in its 
care.
Summary
Its clear to me that Mrs D has found the whole experience very stressful. From the accident 
itself and then through the claims process she has provided a very clear version of the 
events. Aviva has made several mistakes that must have been confusing to deal with and its 
my role to establish whether Aviva treated Mrs D fairly through her claim.
In order to do this its important that I look at all aspects of Mrs Ds claim. I can see initially 
that she was provided with poor service at the roadside, keeping her waiting in the rain for 
four hours. Then her car was taken to the wrong place because of Avivas error, and then 
further damaged and items taken from it. Aviva made an error by not applying a higher 
excess to the claim, which it then waived. And the courtesy car wasnt supplied until Mrs D 
chased it up, again because of Avivas mistake. To balance this, Aviva have apologised for its errors and paid Mrs D for the damage caused, 
the items stolen and for a courtesy car she wasnt entitled to under her policy. It also waived 
the additional excess of £200 and offered Mrs D compensation of £200 for her 
inconvenience. 
I think Avivas actions in paying for the damage it caused are fair and reasonable, as is its 
decision to not apply the additional excess of £200. But I think Aviva went further in 
supplying Mrs D with a courtesy car for nearly a month when her policy didnt include that 
cover. Mrs D has explained that she is reliant on having a car so I think Avivas choice to 
provide one for her is a significant factor in my consideration. 
Our approach at this service is usually to award £10 per day when a consumer is without a 
vehicle. If I take that approach and apply it in reverse, because Mrs D was in receipt of a 
courtesy car that her policy didnt entitle her to, I can estimate that Aviva paid a figure of 
around £270 to Mrs Ds benefit.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to my provisional decision and said it didnt have anything to add. Mrs D 
didnt agree with it. She told this service that she hadnt had the hire car for the period that 
Aviva said she did and had returned it to the hire company when Aviva first asked her to, on 
the seventh day of hire.
In further correspondence with this service, Aviva provided proof itd paid for the extra 20 
days car hire from its supplier. But Mrs D maintained that she had returned the car to the 
supplier when it was first requested. 
Mrs D visited the branch in an effort to secure some evidence of the date she gave the car 
back, but because of the way this hire car was arranged, there wasnt any documentary 
proof of when the car was actually returned to the hire car companys branch. 
From the evidence I have, I can see that Aviva paid for a hire car for the disputed 20 day 
period. Its somewhat harder for Mrs D to prove that she actually didnt have the car to use 
during the same period.
Mrs D has very commendably sent me extensive anecdotal details of her movements during 
that time and I am persuaded by her evidence that the car was returned to Avivas supplier 
when first requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Avivas actions in taking control of the claim and admitting liability, paying for the 
damage it caused to Mrs Ds car, and paying for Mrs Ds stolen items are fair and 
reasonable, as is its decision to waive the additional excess of £200.
Aviva has provided evidence that it paid for the hire car to be provided to Mrs D for a total of 
27 days during June 2021 and I have no doubt that it paid for this.
But Mrs Ds evidence is extensive and persuasive. She has visited the branch of the hire 
company and spoken with the manager. He confirmed that no car was being hired out to her 
for the disputed hire period. Mrs D has provided extensive anecdotal evidence of her 
movements during June 2021 when she says she didnt have access to a car, and her evidence is logical, detailed and supports her point of view. 
So I cannot agree that Mrs D actually had the benefit of the hire car for those extra 20 days. 
It seems clear to me that Mrs Ds inconvenience has been significant throughout her claim, 
so I think its fair to follow the logic in my provisional decision above and require Aviva to pay 
Mrs D an additional £200 for her distress and inconvenience, made up of £10 per day for the 
disputed 20 day hire period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D a total of £400 for her distress and inconvenience. 
I understand Aviva has already paid Mrs D £200, so this amount can be deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman