DRN-3535465
The complaint
Ms O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Ms O was looking for plumbers to repair a leak in her bathroom and kitchen. She searched 
online for local plumbers, found a plumbing company with good reviews and contacted them 
to arrange a quote. The company sent a plumber to Ms Os house who gave her a quote she 
agreed to. Ms O then paid an initial deposit and workmen came round and started ripping 
out her bathroom and kitchen. Some tiling in both rooms was also done and then the 
plumber came back and said Ms O needed to make a further payment for materials before 
any more work could be done.
Ms O was asked to make a number of further payments to the plumber over the following 
month for fittings and materials, which she did. But, as no further work was done during this 
time, Ms O started to chase the plumber and the plumbing company. She was initially told 
there were delays with suppliers due to the pandemic and no more work could be done until 
the materials arrived. But, ultimately, the plumber and plumbing company stopped 
responding to her and blocked her telephone number. Ms O then contacted Lloyds, saying 
she had been the victim of a scam.
Lloyds investigated but didnt think Ms O had been the victim of a scam. As some work had 
been done, it felt this was a civil dispute between Ms O and the plumber and so didnt agree 
to refund the money shed lost. Lloyds did accept that it had provided poor customer service 
to Ms O over the phone though, so paid her £60 compensation. Ms O wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt it was more likely to be a civil 
dispute than a scam, as the plumber had carried out some work and there wasnt significant 
evidence of other people being scammed in the same way. So they didnt think Lloyds 
needed to refund the money Ms O had lost. Ms O disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds should be required to refund the money Ms O has lost. 
Ill explain why below.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Ms O under the provisions of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code).
Lloyds has signed up to the CRM code and it was in force at the time Ms O made the 
payments to the plumber. And the starting principle of the CRM code is that firms should 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams.
But the CRM code doesnt apply to all push payments. It specifically says it doesnt apply to 
private civil disputes, such as where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So I need to consider whether Ms O 
was the victim of a scam  where the plumber was intending to defraud her at the point the 
payments were made, or whether Lloyds has acted reasonably in treating her disagreement 
with the plumber as a civil dispute.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Ive seen copies of emails between Ms O and the plumber, and the quote she was provided 
for the work to be done. The quote is fairly detailed  setting out the order the work would be 
done in, who would supply the materials, when sample tiles would be sent and possible 
additional items to be fitted. And the plumber offered Ms O the option of paying by bank 
transfer, credit or debit card or by cash  which I wouldnt necessarily expect of a scammer.
I also wouldnt expect a scammer to carry out much work before disappearing with the 
money they have taken. And Ms O says the plumber just ripped out the bathroom and 
kitchen and did a small bit of tiling before stopping. But from the quote she was given, it 
appears there was a significant amount of removal and preparation work that was needed 
before any other work could be done. And in her calls with Lloyds, Ms O said around a 
quarter of the tiling in the bathroom and kitchen had been done, including on both the walls 
and the floor. So it appears more work has been done that I would expect of a scammer.
The emails with the plumber also set out when the payments for the work were to be made, 
with 30% paid as a deposit before any work was done and another 30% paid when they 
were ready to tile. So it appears the payments Ms O was asked to make were, at least 
initially, in line with the payment schedule she was told about before the work started. And 
while she was asked to make more payments before any further work could be done, it 
wasnt uncommon for there to be delays with the supply or increases in the cost of materials 
around this time, so I dont think this necessarily means she was the victim of a scam.
Ive also seen evidence from the receiving bank that the account the payments were sent to 
is still open, it hasnt received any other fraud reports or disputes about that account and the 
normal activity on the account is in line with what we would expect to see from a legitimate 
tradesperson. And I think this evidence suggests the plumber isnt a scammer.
I appreciate how Ms O feels about this case. And some of the evidence she has provided 
could suggest she has been the victim of a scam. But, based on all the evidence I have, I 
think Lloyds has acted reasonably in treating this as a civil dispute. And so I dont think it 
should be required to refund the money Ms O lost.
I recognise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms O. And my decision 
shouldnt be read as saying I think she did anything wrong or that she hasnt been treated 
poorly by the plumber or the plumbing company. But I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Lloyds responsible, or to require it to refund the money she lost.Lloyds has paid Ms O £60 compensation for the poor customer service she was given when 
she called to say she had been the victim of a scam. And having listened to the calls Ms O 
had with Lloyds, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman