DRN-1304121
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how MoneyGram International Limited handled his attempts to recall 
money sent through its service. 
What happened
In July and August 2019, Mr D used MoneyGram to make international transfers to two 
Ukrainian women. The first woman didn't collect the money  and the second was unable to. 
He went to his local post officewhich provides MoneyGram servicesto recall the money 
(although he still wanted to complete the transfer to the second woman). He says the agent 
wouldn't process his request, shouted at him not to send money to Ukrainian women, and 
told him to leave and come back the next week. 
Mr D called MoneyGram. It confirmed the refunds had been agreed, and told him to go to a 
post office with proof of identification to collect the outstanding amount. So he went to 
another post office  but it wouldn't process the refund as he'd lost the original payment slip. 
It said he'd need to go to the office where he made the request. After calling MoneyGram 
again, Mr D was able to collect the remaining funds from the other post office  although it 
wouldn't process a transfer to the second woman. Mr D complained to MoneyGram, but it 
didn't respond. So he referred the matter to our service. 
MoneyGram told our investigator it could decline services and put restrictions in place to 
safeguard customers. It said Mr D had reported that he hadn't met the women hed 
transferred money to. The payments to the first woman had been refunded as she hadn't 
collected them. And it had declined the transfer to the second woman. Regarding the initial 
post office visit, the agent recalled that Mr D had been aggressive and that they'd been 
trying to warn him about the risks of sending money abroad to individuals he hadn't met. 
Moneygram offered £20 for any inconvenience collecting the refund. 
On balance, our investigator concluded that the agent in the post office hadn't been 
unreasonable. He considered it fair for MoneyGram to decide which transactions it was 
comfortable with. He agreed with Mr D that the refunds couldve been handled better, as he 
had to attend branch multiple times to collect the money. Overall, he thought £20 
compensation was fair. 
Mr D considers £20 inadequate. He says its incidental that he couldn't send money  his 
point is that it took three trips and numerous calls to reclaim his money. And the staff 
member breached his privacy by discussing the situation loudly and publicly. 
As Mr D disagrees with our investigator's view, his case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached  and for largely the same reasons.
Mr D says it's incidental that MoneyGram wouldn't process his transfer request to the second 
woman. But, for the sake of completeness, I agree with our investigator that it's reasonable 
for MoneyGram to decide what services its comfortable providing  and on what terms. On 
that basis, Im not persuaded it was wrong to decline the transfers it did. And he wasn't left 
unfairly out-of-pocket as it returned the money it took.
Regarding the refunds, MoneyGrams terms and conditionsset out on the send money 
forms Mr D wouldve completedsay it will do what it can to locate money that doesn't reach 
the intended destination. And it will aim to process refund requests promptly but in any case 
within 30 days. Mr D was able to collect/receive all his refunds within a few days of 
requesting them. I'm satisfied this qualifies as prompt. But I've considered the other 
issues Mr D has raised about how the refunds were handled. 
Mr D says that, when he visited his local post office, the agent was rude and uncooperative. 
But they say it was Mr D who was aggressive. In order to uphold this point, I'd need to find 
Mr D's account more likely (rather than equally or less likely) than the agent's. On balance, 
I dont consider there to be enough to show the agent provided unreasonable service in the 
course of dealing with Mr Ds MoneyGram requests. 
Given that I haven't found the agent at fault, I don't consider it unreasonable that Mr D then 
had to call MoneyGram for instructions and advice on how to collect his money. However, he 
seems to have attended the same post office twice, with the same details, to collect this. So 
on balance, I consider it likely an error occurred which meant Mr D had to visit the post office 
an additional time. MoneyGram also didn't respond to his complaint (although it doesn't 
seem he's in a worse situation as a result, given that he's referred the matter to our service 
and doesn't accept MoneyGram's proposed resolution). 
I consider MoneyGram to have caused Mr D undue frustration. It's offered £20 
compensation for this. I know Mr D thinks more is due. But I haven't found MoneyGram at 
fault for all the points he's raised. It also seems he could've waited and gone to his local 
branch the following week. So in all the circumstances, Im satisfied £20 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. 
My final decision
MoneyGram International Limited has already made an offer to pay £20 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is 
that MoneyGram International Limited should pay Mr D £20, if it hasn't already done so. 
This sum should be paid within 28 days of being notified by us of Mr D's acceptance of my 
decision, failing which interest will accrue at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of 
decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
 
 
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman