DRN-2812449
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way BISL Limited administered his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out an insurance policy online in March 2020. BISL were responsible for arranging 
and administering the policy, and so they are the responsible party for this complaint. 
The policy had a telematics box (also known as a black box) associated with it, which 
monitored his driving. The black box recorded three red alerts which  under the terms  
says the policy will be cancelled. Though when Mr S raised a complaint, this was found to be 
due to the black box being incorrectly configured to his car, as opposed to an accurate 
reading from the black box. 
BISL upheld the complaint, arranged a new policy with the same terms to be set up, and 
price matched it to the original policy that was cancelled in error. They also offered Mr S 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  The new policy started in 
October 2020. 
In March 2021, Mr S exceeded his mileage allowance, so he contacted BISL to increase 
this. Mr S also wasnt happy his policy only reflected one years no claims discount (NCD). 
He said hed held a policy for another year by this point (since taking out the first policy  
that was cancelled in error  in March 2020) and was therefore entitled to two years NCD. 
BISL said they were unable to apply a second years NCD mid-way through the policy term, 
as the new policy Mr S held started in October 2020. Mr S didnt think this was fair as he felt 
hed been financially disadvantaged by not receiving further discount. So, Mr S raised a 
complaint. He didnt accept BISL were unable to make changes to the NCD mid-term, even 
though hed made other changes mid-term, such as increasing his mileage allowance. 
BISL upheld the complaint and offered Mr S options. They said Mr S could remain on the 
same policy until renewal, and his NCD would be updated then. Or, Mr S could cancel the 
policy without charge, and BISL would provide him with proof of two years NCD from March 
2021. There were also some service issues and BISL offered Mr S £90 compensation. 
BISL tried to arrange a new policy with the same underwriter in March 2021, but they said 
the underwriter had withdrawn from the black box market and so this wasnt an option. They 
also said they were unable to find a new policy with a different underwriter due to Mr Ss 
credit score. Mr S said this was due to him being out of work at the time. 
Mr S remained unhappy that BISLs error had caused him to suffer a disadvantage. He said 
he was entitled to two years NCD in March 2021 and BISL acted unfairly by not updating the 
NCD then. So, he brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
accepted BISL had made an error, but felt theyd acted fairly and reasonably in attempting to 
put things right. Mr S didnt agree and maintained BISLs error caused him to suffer a 
disadvantage. As such, he asked for an ombudsman to make a decision, so its now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ss frustration as the complaint hes brought to this service was due to an 
error outside his control. This error resulted in his policy being cancelled mid-way through 
the term, resulting in him not completing a full policy year and being unable to gain a second 
years NCD. 
When the error initially occurred, BISL accepted this. Based on what Ive seen, I think they 
acted fairly by arranging a new policy, with the same terms and price as the one that was 
cancelled. They also offered £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Though, as a new policy was set up in October 2020, this meant Mr S would have to be on 
cover for another full term in order to gain a second years NCD. I accept this would have 
been very frustrating for Mr S to find. 
BISL accepted they caused the error. And in March 2021, after Mr S had exceeded his 
mileage allowance, it came to light that hed not benefitted from a second years NCD. And 
had the first policy not been cancelled in error, he would have been entitled to this in March 
2021. 
BISL said they were unable to make changes to the NCD mid-term. Mr S didnt accept this 
as hed been able to make other changes to the policy mid-term, such as increasing the 
mileage allowance. So, he didnt accept they couldnt also make changes to the NCD in 
March 2021 and were treating him unfairly. 
Its important to explain that a policyholders NCD will always be a whole number and a 
policy will be required to run for the full term (12 months) for the policyholder to claim 
another years NCD. And through no fault of Mr Ss own, he was unable to do this in March 
2021 as the current policy he has is due for renewal in October 2021  this would be the full 
policy term. 
So, its clear to me BISL caused an error which has impacted Mr S. But to give some 
balance to this dispute, Ive also seen BISL provided Mr S some options which, on balance, I 
think were fair and reasonable. 
BISL said Mr S could either remain on the current policy until October 2021 and the NCD 
would be updated then. Or, he could cancel the policy free of charges and BISL would 
provide him with proof of two years NCD. They also tried to arrange a new policy for Mr S in 
March 2021 where the two years NCD could be applied, but the underwriter of Mr Ss 
current policy withdrew from the black box market, and so this wasnt possible. I appreciate 
Mr S said this wasnt his fault, but I think it was a fair option for BISL to attempt at this point 
so the further discount could be applied. BISL also searched for a new policy through their 
panel of underwriters, but due to Mr Ss circumstances, they said they were unable to find 
cover. 
Overall, I agree BISL made an error, but I think the steps taken to try and put things right for 
Mr S were fair and reasonable. I note BISL paid Mr S £150 compensation in October 2020 
for the initial cancellation error, and a further £90 in April 2021. I note Mr S said the £90 
compensation had nothing to do with BISL not applying the second years NCD in March 2021. He said this was paid as a manager failed to call him back and other service issues 
experienced. But overall, I find that BISL acted fairly in attempting to put things right after 
making an error, and the total compensation amount paid to Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be directing BISL to do 
anything else as part of this complaint. 
I note Mr S raised further issues about the price of his insurance which he subsequently 
requested to cancel. Specifically, from the point in which he increased the mileage 
allowance, and hes said this was unaffordable and he would lose his job if uninsured. Im 
sorry to hear of Mr Ss circumstances, but Im unable to consider the further issues Mr S has 
raised in this complaint. Mr S would need to raise a new complaint with the underwriter who 
are responsible for setting the price of the policy.  
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr S. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with BISL  can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman