DRN-3240238
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc wrongly didnt renew her pet policy.
  
What happened
Miss H was insured with a branded policy since 2017 which renewed each year which is
underwritten by Pinnacle. Miss H asked for pre-authorisation for an operation on her cat in
September 2020. Pinnacle said Miss H hadnt renewed her policy, so there was no cover for
her claim.
It said it had written to her to invite her to renew, as it taken over the underwriting from
someone else. As she didnt respond it her policy was cancelled. Miss H said she never
received any letters.
Remaining unhappy she brought her complaint to us. The investigator discovered that
Pinnacle had deleted Miss Hs details due to its arrangement in taking over the underwriting
so, it couldnt tell the investigator what contact details it had for Miss H. That meant it hadnt
kept any copies of the letters it wrote to Miss H, but it was clear it had generated the letters
as that could be seen on its system.
On that basis, the investigator wasnt satisfied that Pinnacle had posted out the letters to
Miss Hs correct address, so she thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld.
Pinnacle disagreed so Miss Hs complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 December 2021 and I said the following:
Miss H first took out her policy for one cat in August 2017. She added a second cat to 
the policy in January 2018 and policy for both cats renewed automatically in August 
2018 and August 2019.
Sadly, the second cat added to the policy went missing in the beginning of 
September 2020 and returned home with extensive injuries around a week later with 
a broken pelvis and dislocated hip. Her vet had a couple of options with which to treat 
her cats injuries and asked Miss H to talk to her insurers, which was when Miss H 
discovered her policy hadnt renewed.
Pinnacle said it also couldnt reinstate Miss Hs policy as the 30-day window in order 
to do so had also expired. Miss H simply didnt know her direct debit for paying the 
premium hadnt gone through in August. She doesnt do her banking online so she 
would have been waiting for her August statement to be sent to her by post which 
wouldnt have arrived until September, by which time her cat had been injured in any 
event and she discovered she had no policy.
Its clear Miss H wanted to renew her policy each year as she had done so 
previously. Therefore, there is nothing before me to show that it was at all likely Miss 
H wouldnt have renewed her policy at this time either.
We asked Pinnacle to show what address and contact details it had for Miss H or 
was given to it from the previous underwriter. Sadly, under its agreement with the 
previous underwriter all the details it might have held for Miss H or indeed any other 
consumer who hadnt renewed were deleted and removed after 90 days if the 
consumer didnt renew. Therefore, it did this or permitted this to occur after it was 
aware of Miss Hs complaint too. So, it has no way of showing us the address to 
which it might have sent these letters to Miss H. It can show letters were generated 
but no other address details. Like the investigator, whilst I dont know precisely, this 
deletion of records might fall foul of Pinnacle requirements under its regulation for 
data retention as regards complaints. It certainly hasnt helped either Miss H or
rather more so, Pinnacle in this dispute in any event.
Consequently, I consider that its highly likely Miss H simply didnt receive any of the 
letters Pinnacle had sent to her. And if she had, I consider she would have also 
renewed her policy. Pinnacle says its highly unlikely Miss H didnt receive at least 
one of the six letters it sent to her. But I disagree, it would be even more likely she 
didnt receive any, if they were all sent to the wrong address, which seems far more 
likely exactly what has happened here. Also Pinnacle merely relied on sending these 
letters, it didnt email her or telephone her which might have alerted her at least to the 
fact that her policy had not renewed, and then it could have been reinstated in the 
30-day window. So, I dont consider this was adequate communication with Miss H at 
all.
Miss H couldnt proceed with treating her cat as her vet advised, and spent a mere 
£700, instead the costs of replacing his hip and sorting out his pelvis properly. Her 
cat remains lame, as Miss H simply couldnt afford the possible £5,000 or £6,000 it 
might have cost her. She bought another policy for both of her cats but is unable to 
claim for the further treatment this cat requires until she has been with that insurer for 
two years. Thats a considerable amount of trouble, distress and anguish Miss H has 
endured due to clerical or systems error of a probable mistake in her address when 
Pinnacle took on this book of business.
Therefore, I consider Pinnacle to should refund Miss H the vet fees she did pay for 
her cat at this time and with interest from the date she paid the vets fees to date it 
refunds her. I also consider Pinnacle should pay Miss H £700 compensation for the 
dreadful upset this caused her in not being able to give her cat the required treatment 
that he needed. Its clear from what Miss H told us this was exceptionally distressing 
for her.
Miss Hs new policy is more expensive that what she was paying before her policy 
was wrongly not renewed. Given her experience, quite understandably she now has 
no wish for Pinnacle to reinstate her policy as the investigator suggested. She would 
prefer to stay with her new insurer. But I think Pinnacle should refund the difference 
in premium between what it would have charged her (assuming that information is 
still available to it and hasnt also been deleted) to what she is paying for the policy 
year 2020 to 2021. Miss H at least has the details of what her premium amount was 
before her policy wasnt renewed and if there is any issue, then that premium amount 
should be used as the base for the refund. Adding interest from the date she paid her 
premium instalments to the date it refunds her. On the basis Miss H doesnt want her 
old policy reinstated I dont think its fair to make Pinnacle pay any further premium 
refund than this one year.
Miss H agreed with my provisional decision. Pinnacle didnt. It produced a copy of the call 
recording when Miss H phoned up to make her claim. It said the call recording clearly showed Miss H had received a letter because she talked about it and that she had noted the 
premium price had increased. Therefore, it didnt think that I should uphold this complaint.
Miss H had previously told us the letter she mentioned on the call was in fact her household 
insurance renewal and not any letter. We also ensured Miss H confirmed that again following 
our receipt of the call recording.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld given the 
very particular circumstances of it.
Ive listened to the call carefully and I agree it does appear that Miss H received a letter. 
However, Miss H is clear that the letter she referred to in the call was in fact her household 
insurance renewal and not any letter from Pinnacle.  On the call Miss H also said she had 
gone through her emails and she knew it was Pinnacle now and that the premium had gone 
up. Pinnacle has confirmed to us that it never sent Miss H any emails so we know the email 
she referred to, wasnt sent from it, so it must be from the previous underwriter. We also 
know as Miss H had added a cat so the premium would have also increased, and Miss H 
confirmed this was what she was referring to in the call recording.
Its also clear on the call Miss H was extremely shocked her policy hadnt renewed so Im 
satisfied with her testimony that she was referring to the wrong letter in the call (which she 
subsequently explained). So, it remains that Miss H thought her policy would automatically 
renew. I personally believe Miss H is telling the truth that she didnt receive any of the six 
letters Pinnacle said it sent her. And her sincerity and general honest demeanour is 
extremely evident on the call recording too, so in my view that cant be disputed. However, I 
concede there is an element of doubt.  However even if she got the letters and overlooked 
them given I have no reason to doubt that she intended to renew, I remain of the view would 
be fair and reasonable for Pinnacle to have allowed her to renew as if the 30-day grace 
period had not expired. 
  
Further, Miss H also told us that Pinnacle had confirmed to her, it had accommodated other 
people who for varying reasons werent at home to receive their post throughout the 
pandemic. Therefore, I consider Pinnacle should now do the same for Miss H, because for 
whatever reason and possibly simply pandemic reasons only too, its fair and reasonable 
that Pinnacle give Miss H the benefit of the doubt also. 
Normally in cases where it has been proved that letters were generated and the contact 
details were correct, we might say that the business hasnt done anything wrong. However, 
this case is a little different. Miss H wanted her cats insured and had set up a policy which 
would automatically renew and had persistently paid her premium. She obviously had 
nothing to do with the change in underwriter or that that meant her policy would now not 
automatically renew. Further quite obviously Pinnacle was quite happy to accept her as her 
policyholder and would have administered her claim in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, had she renewed her policy and sorted out a new direct debit.
Therefore, in the absence of any clear detriment to Pinnacle and with the clear evidence of 
significant detriment to Miss H, I consider its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint on 
with the same outcome as intended by my provisional decision. 
My final decisionSo, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to do the following:
Pay Miss H £700 compensation.
Refund Miss H the vet fees she did pay at the time of around £700 (exact amount to 
be ascertained) adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date she paid them to 
the date of its refund.
Refund Miss H the difference between what Pinnacle would have charged her (if that 
information is known) had the policy renewed in August 2020and the policy she has 
now for the policy year 2020/2021. If the premium amount Pinnacle would have 
charged is now also deleted the refund should be based on the difference in 
premium that Miss H paid for the policy year up to August 2020 and what she paid 
her new insurer for the policy year 2020/2021. Interest of 8% simple per year should 
be added from the date Miss H paid her premium instalments to the date of its 
refund.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Miss H for HMRC purposes.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman