DRN-3203409
The complaint
Mrs P, through her representative, complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL), lent 
to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
STFL received the complaint letter from Mrs Ps representative in February 2021. That said 
Mrs P had been borrowing from STFL since 2014 and took around five loans with the lender. 
STFL was asked about this but has sent information about three loans approved in 2015 and 
2016. It says it has no information on its records other than what it has provided. Mrs P has 
not sent us any details of any earlier loans. So, the loan table here is not complete but is all 
that we have been provided with.
Agreement Date Capital Interest Repayments Date loan settled
no details on any earlier loans 
09/02/2015 £650 £390 £65 x 16 15/08/2016
15/08/2016 £250 £150 £25 x 16 21/11/2016
21/11/2016 £250 £150 £25 x 16 30/06/2017
The February 2015 loan was scheduled to run for 16 weeks and Mrs P repaid it after 79 
weeks. Mrs P applied for a loan in July 2017 but it was not approved and did not proceed. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that STFL should put things 
right for the August 2016 and November 2016 loans. 
STFL disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
STFL was required to establish whether Mrs P could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator was able to see from the application form for the February 2015 loan that 
there had been an earlier one. About £200 of that earlier loan balance was being refinanced 
into the February 2015 loan. And I have reviewed that document as well. 
I agree that the combination of Mrs Ps explanation that she commenced borrowing with 
STFL in 2014, plus the obvious refinance into the February 2015 loan leads me to think that 
Mrs P had at least one other loan (possible more) before February 2015. 
Mrs Ps response to our adjudicators view was an acknowledgement only. She did not send 
to us any further evidence of any loans before the February 2015 loan and so we had 
nothing further to assess. 
And Mrs P did not disagree with our adjudicators opinion and so I take from this response 
that Mrs P considers the February 2015 loan outcome satisfactory. So, I have not reviewed it 
in detail. But it remains relevant when considering the overall lending relationship between 
STFL and Mrs P. 
Our adjudicator thought that by the time Mrs P was returning for the August 2016 loan which was highly likely to be her third loan (possibly fourth) then STFL ought to have ceased 
lending. Mrs P had been in debt with STFL for at least 18 months and likely longer, and had 
taken 79 weeks to repay the February 2015 loan which was five times longer than the 
scheduled repayment date. 
Added to which, STFL accepts in its final response letter addressed to Mrs P and in its 
response to our adjudicators view that Mrs P had been in financial difficulties. It said to us 
that Mrs P, obviously experienced financial difficulty with her first loan [reference to the 
February 2015 loan here], and a reduced payment was agreed for the remainder of the 
term,  
I disagree that the February 2015 loan was Mrs Ps first loan. STFL has accepted that it 
knew she was in financial difficulties before lending in August 2016 and then again in 
November 2016 and so thats clear evidence of harm being experienced by Mrs P and that 
STFL knew of it. 
So, I do not need much more to be able to agree with our adjudicator that STFL ought to 
have ceased lending when she returned for further loans in August and November 2016. 
I think that Mrs P lost out because STFL continued to provide borrowing from the 
August 2016 loan onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Ps ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about the loans approved in August and November 2016 
and STFL should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs P from August 2016 as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs P may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs P in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
STFL ought to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mrs P paid on the loans approved in August and 
November 2016; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from that August 2016 loan onwards means any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about the August and 
November 2016 loans should be removed from Mrs Ps credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires STFL to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part and I direct that Short Term 
Finance Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman