DRN-4125776
The complaint
Miss R complains that J D Williams & Company Limited  trading as Simply Be (JDW) 
unfairly asks her to repay lending in respect of goods she says she didnt receive.
What happened
Miss R used her account with JDW to purchased a number of items during 2022. She 
subsequently disputed receiving the items and so, raised a complaint about being asked to 
repay the lending shed been provided.
It seems that JDW initially accepted an item hadnt been delivered, so it refunded the 
associated lending. On review, however, it reconsidered in light of the evidence it had seen 
of what it thought was all of the items being successfully delivered. It also said that it had 
investigated matters with its courier and was satisfied the items were delivered. It didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Miss R referred the matter to this service. She said that JDW had unfairly asked her to repay 
lending for items she hadnt received. She asked for refunds relating to those items.
Our investigator said that we dont have the power to consider aspects of Miss Rs 
complaint, specially about whether or not she received the items in question, because thats 
about a retail activity carried on by JDW. They accepted we could find on whether JDW had 
treated Miss R fairly in respect of her regulated finance agreement, however. Having done 
so they noted that the agreement didnt say that Miss R wouldnt be required to repay 
lending in the event of a dispute about the provision of the items, so, they concluded that 
JDW had acted fairly by asking Miss R for repayment. 
Miss R disagreed. She maintained that she is being unfairly charged for items that she ought 
not to be, and said thats an issue relating to her financial agreement. 
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JDW comes under this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Miss R. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider. 
In selling goods to Miss R, JDW has acted as a retailer. It was also acting as a retailer in 
handling a dispute about whether or not those goods were delivered. That dispute relates to 
JDWs role as a retailer. This service has no power to consider complaints about JDWs 
activities as a retailer. 
However, JDW has also acted as the provider of regulated lending to Miss R by providing 
her with an open ended personal credit account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
Our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook) say that 
we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction as long the 
complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified. DISP 2.3.1R specifically sets this 
out. The regulated activities our rules refer to are set out in The Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article 60B(2) of the RAO says 
that exercising a lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement is a regulated 
activity.
JDW has attempted to exercise a lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit 
agreement by asking Miss R to repay sums lent to her under her agreement. Miss R asserts 
that JDW has not acted fairly by doing so, in other words, shes expressed dissatisfaction 
about the administration of her regulated credit agreement. Thats something which this 
service has the power to consider a complaint about  independently of any dispute about 
JDWs retail activity.
Ive carefully considered the terms of Miss Rs agreement with JDW. It sets out that JDW 
would provide lending to Miss R for the purchase of certain goods. It also outlines the terms 
under which Miss R is required to repay that lending. It doesnt, significantly, say that Miss R 
need not repay the lending in the event of a dispute relating to the provision of quality of 
goods. 
Importantly, I think its clear that theres a dispute here  Miss R says she didnt receive the 
goods in question and JDW asserts that it thinks she did. That is a dispute about a retail 
activity carried on by JDW, and not something this service can find on. Taking into account 
Miss Rs agreement with JDW, I dont think there was an obligation or expectation for JDW 
to cease pursuit of the sums lent to Miss R, despite her dispute. So, it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude that JDW has acted unfairly by asking Miss R to repay the lending it gave her.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman