DRN-2836379
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) sent him a new credit card after hed
informed it about his gambling problems.
What happened
Ive already issued a provisional decision on this case, setting out the background and what I 
was minded to conclude:
In mid-2016, Mr Bs mother Ms B (who is also representing him in this complaint) 
spoke to Barclays on his behalf about his credit card account. She explained that he 
had developed a problem with gambling, and so they were reaching out to all his 
lenders to try to avoid incurring lots of interest.
Mr B gave Ms B authority to speak to Barclays about the account. She explained 
hed had gambling problems a year or two earlier (prior to taking out his Barclaycard), 
but had only run up debts of a few hundred pounds at that time. He now owed 
around £6,500  around £2,500 on this card, plus £2,000 on another credit card and 
around £1,900 on an overdraft.
Ms B explained Mr B was in full time work, living at home, and that she wouldnt be 
charging him for rent or bills (for a period) to help him get on top of his finances. She 
confirmed this wouldnt cause her financial difficulty. Barclays put a 30-day hold on 
interest and charges and blocked any further spending on the card. It also explained 
that Mr B or Ms B would need to get back in touch at the end of the hold to work out 
the next steps, otherwise the interest hold would end. It also called Ms B a couple of 
days later to discuss Mr Bs support needs further. Options such as blocking 
gambling transactions, permanently closing the account, and setting up a basic bank 
account were discussed.
Mr B didnt get back in touch with Barclays at the end of the hold. Regular payments 
were made towards the account until Ms B cleared the remaining balance in mid-
2017. When Mr B called Barclays about making this payment, it told him this would 
reactivate the account. There was no further activity until he was sent a new card in 
mid-2019. He used the card for spending, including gambling transactions, and 
applied to increase his credit limit  but was declined. The account fell into arrears. 
Ms B complained that Barclays had sent him a new card count was subsequently 
defaulted and closed.
Barclays explained that, as the account was open with no restrictions, a new card 
had been sent automatically when the old one was due to expire. But it agreed to 
refund the interest and charges applied since Mr B had started using the account 
again in 2019. It also paid £25 compensation for a missed call during the complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B and Ms B referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Barclays had done enough to 
support Mr B. But he disagrees. Ms B says they want the debt cleared and for 
Barclays to change how it deals with vulnerable customers.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm very sorry to hear about the impact of Mr Bs gambling problems. I'd like to 
reassure him that I've taken these sensitive circumstances into account when 
considering this complaint. Having weighed everything up, Im not currently 
persuaded its fair to hold Barclays liable for the debt hes accrued. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is about what happened in 2019  i.e. that he was sent 
a new card. But Ive considered this in context, as Ms B had notified Barclays of 
Mr Bs gambling problems in 2016. There hadnt been any earlier gambling 
transactions on the account to alert it to his situation. Once Barclays was made 
aware, Im satisfied it offered appropriate support. I say this because:
Barclays immediately blocked interest and charges for 30 days, to give Mr B a 
breathing space to get back on top of his finances. I consider this a positive 
and sympathetic response.
It also blocked spending on the card, to prevent him from accruing further 
debts.
It offered longer-term options, including permanently closing the account or 
blocking cash and gambling transactions.
Ms B was told Mr B would need to authorise any of the longer-term options theyd 
discussed. Overall, if Mr B wanted to close the account or take other action, I think he 
(through his representative) had enough information to act on this. It seems they 
instead opted to keep making payments without using the card to run down the 
balance until clearing the remainder in 2017. Im satisfied that was their choice, and 
not down to failings by Barclays.
It seems Mr B and Ms B may have been under the impression that clearing the 
balance in 2017 had closed the account. But when he called about making the 
payment, Barclays did explain that paying off the balance would update the account 
meaning it would be available for use again. Barclays had also previously told Ms B 
that hed need to give his authority to close the account. Generally, clearing a card 
doesnt close an account  some people choose to pay their balance in full each 
month, but that doesnt mean they no longer want to use the credit facility. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr B asked Barclays to close his account, so I think it was 
correct that it remained open.
At the time of the 2017 call, it may not have struck Mr B as particularly significant that 
his card would no longer be restricted  as he was no longer using it. And arguably, 
Barclays could have done more to emphasise the implications of clearing the 
restrictions given the history on the account. But I must also think about what its fair 
and proportionate to expect from Barclays. Ultimately, it had made Mr B and Ms B 
aware that he needed to authorise any further measures  including closing the 
account. Given this, Im not persuaded it should reasonably have done more in the 
circumstances.As a result, when Mr Bs un-restricted card was due to expire in 2019, Barclays sent 
him a replacement  which he then used. I know Ms B is unhappy that this was sent 
due to an automated process, but its down to Barclays to devise its systems, to allow 
it to operate its business and provide adequate service to its customers. I dont 
consider it incorrect that, as the restrictions had been removed, Barclays sent him a 
new card.
Id clarify that no further lending was offered at this point. It was just that the existing 
lending agreement was still in place. And when he applied to increase the limit in late 
August 2019, he was rejected.
That said, I think there is more that Barclays could have done here. I note a 
proactive credit limit decrease of £100 was applied by batch in early 2017. By that 
point, Mr B hadnt been spending on the account for several months. Then, or later 
on, Barclays could have significantly reduced his credit limit  given the lack of 
activity and its knowledge of Mr Bs gambling problems. It could also have reached 
out to him when he started using his card for gambling. So, Ive considered whether 
these are actions Barclays should have taken. And if so, whether the resolution its 
offered is enough to address the impact of its failings.
When Ms B complained to Barclays, it agreed to refund all the interest and charges 
applied since the new card had been sent. That is generally what we recommend 
when we find that money has been lent when it shouldnt have been. Our starting 
position is that its fair for the borrower to pay back the capital they received as 
theyve had the use of that money. And whilst some money was used for gambling, 
some was used for other purposes  such as buying food and retail purchases.
In hindsight, I think decreasing the credit limit further would have been a great, 
proactive measure. But that doesnt mean not doing so was a failure. Im conscious 
that banks have some legitimate commercial discretion over reviewing their existing 
lending arrangements. At the time of the small decrease, the account hadnt been out 
of use for that long and the situation had been left with the expectation for Mr B to get 
back in touch to decide what he wanted to do in the long term. In any event, Barclays 
has already refunded all the interest and charges  our usual remedy for 
irresponsible or unaffordable lending. Any further remedy wouldnt, in my view, fairly 
reflect that Barclays had already made Mr B aware that he could close the account or 
authorise new restrictions. So Im not convinced Barclays needs to do more to put 
this right.
Similarly, whilst Barclays could have reached out to Mr B about his renewed 
spending, it took place reasonably quickly  over the span of three months in total, 
within his credit limit and including non-gambling spending. So there was a limited 
window for Barclays to intervene. Even if it had, Mr B would still have needed to 
engage to put in place further restrictions. And he didnt do so back in 2016 when 
longer-term support options were put forward. So again, Im not persuaded its fair to 
award more than the interest and charges refund already offered.Whilst I greatly empathise with Mr Bs situation, and I appreciate that he and Ms B 
have been upfront with Barclays about this, Im conscious the redress hes received 
means he hasnt been charged for using the lending since receiving his new card. Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to direct it to write off all his lending. Mr B was made 
aware that the account would be left open without restrictions, and hes only being 
asked to repay what he spent. Im also satisfied that Barclays showed forbearance, 
and was sufficiently clear about what else it could do to help, when Ms B told it about 
the situation. Whilst I appreciate she wants Barclays to change its policy and 
processes, our role is limited to redressing loss suffered by a customer due to 
business error. Were not the regulator.
I note Barclays paid £25 compensation for a missed call during the complaint. Our 
service cant consider issues relating to the handling of the complaint itself so I cant 
comment on this further.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B  as well as Ms B, who I can see has 
done a great deal to support her son through his gambling what Ive seen, Im
not minded to direct Barclays to do anything more.
I invited both sides to provide further comments or evidence. Barclays has confirmed it has 
nothing to add. Ms B says she still considers it irresponsible lending that Mr B was sent a 
new card. She has explained that he is very vulnerable, and this outcome will have a major 
impact on him. Shes also queried why Barclays didnt reduce his credit limit due to lack of 
use. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. 
I know Ms B considers it irresponsible lending that Barclays sent Mr B a new card. But, as 
explained in my provisional decision, no lending was offered at this point. Rather, the original 
lending agreement was still in place  as Mr B hadnt completed the required steps to end 
this. So I dont agree that sending a new card was irresponsible lending, nor that it was 
wrong for Barclays to do this  for the reasons Ive set out above.
My provisional decision also explains why I dont think Barclays ought to have lowered 
Mr Bs credit limit. Whilst some businesses may do this after a period of non-use, I consider 
the particulars of this to fall within Barclays legitimate commercial discretion  which it would 
be inappropriate for me to interfere with. Im also conscious it has already agreed to refund 
the interest and charges applied since 2019, meaning he hasnt been charged for using the 
lending facility after the point at which Ms B thinks the limit should have been lowered.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Bs situation, which Ive taken into account when reaching my 
decision. And I appreciate how disappointing this outcome will be for him.  But overall, Im 
not persuaded its fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to do more to put things right. I can 
only make an award for the impact on Mr B caused by Barclays errors. As explained above, 
Im satisfied Barclays has largely treated him fairly  including the refund it offered in 
response to the initial complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
fairly resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman