DRN-3013813
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly 
declined its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr P, a director of F, has complained on Fs behalf through a representative. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of F.
What happened
F held business interruption insurance with Aviva. It claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Aviva turned down Fs claim, as they said the policy primarily covered interruption to a 
business as a result of damage. And they didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to 
property. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, F brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Fs claim. 
F asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Fs claim. Ill comment on the parts of the policy which might appear most 
relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption insurance cover provided by the policy covers F for business 
interruption or interference as a result of Damage to property used by You at The 
Premises. The policy defines damage as Physical loss, destruction or damage.
For this to provide cover for Fs claim, the interruption to its business would need to be as a 
result of physical loss, destruction or damage to property used by F at its premises. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that the interruption or interference to Fs business was as a result 
of damage to property, so I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to find that this section 
of the policy doesnt provide cover. 
Prevention of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The extension says:
We will provide cover for loss resulting from interruption of or interference with 
The Business as a result of damage to property within the distance in miles, 
stated in The Schedule, of the boundary of The Premises which physically 
prevents or restricts access to or use of The Premises.
The policy schedule sets out that the relevant distance is one mile. 
For this extension to cover Fs claim, the interruption or interference to its business 
would need to be as a result of damage to property within one mile of Fs premises 
which physically prevented or restricted access to or the use of Fs premises. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that this was the cause of the interruption or interference to 
Fs business. Im therefore satisfied that Avivas decision that this doesnt cover Fs 
claim was fair and reasonable.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome F was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Fs claim as there isnt cover 
under any of the terms in the policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman