DRN-3726093
The complaint
Mr C and Miss S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them unfairly during a
period of vulnerability. Their finances were impacted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic
and they say Barclays didnt offer them the right support which made their situation worse.
The whole experience has caused them significant distress.
What happened
Prior to the pandemic Mr C and Miss S were maintaining their monthly mortgage
repayments. But because of the pandemic, their income and ability to make their mortgage 
repayments were impacted. They turned to Barclays for help.
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released
specific guidance for mortgage lenders  including allowing customers to defer up to a
maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments. Barclays approved a payment deferral from
April to September 2020. During this time no adverse information was to be reported on 
Mr C and Miss Ss credit files.
When the payment deferral period was ending, Miss S called Barclays to discuss their 
options as they still couldnt resume full payments. In November 2020 a three-month
temporary switch to interest only was agreed. The agreement ended in January 2021 but 
Mr C and Miss S still werent able to resume capital repayments. Mr C and Miss S asked 
Barclays to agree an extension to their interest only arrangement to allow time for their 
circumstances to improve. Barclays declined on the basis that Mr C and Miss S were
already in arrears and agreeing a further concession would put them further into arrears and
not help their situation.
Mr C and Miss S complained to Barclays about its lack of support. Theyre unhappy with the
service provided by Barclays, more specifically the inability to get through to the right team to
properly discuss their mortgage, spending long wait times on hold and not receiving call
backs as agreed.
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. It apologised for its reduced service as a result of the
pandemic. Barclays said that, for an affordable arrangement to be agreed, Mr C and Miss S
would need to call and speak to the Customer Home Assistance (CHA). Barclays offered
£75 compensation to apologise for the lack of agreed call backs.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr C and Miss S brought their complaint to our service.
To date Mr C and Miss S have continued to pay a reduced amount towards their mortgage
which has in turn caused further arrears to accrue. Barclays has told our service that as of
May 2022 Mr C and Miss Ss arrears had accumulated to in excess of £17,500. Their
account has been passed to Barclays litigation department. Action has been placed on hold
until our service answers the complaint.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt think that Barclays had unfairly declined an
extension of the interest only terms and that it had fairly settled the complaint. Mr C and
Miss S didnt agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision, an extract of which is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not
satisfied Barclays has acted fairly in response to Mr C and Miss Ss circumstances.
Mr C and Miss Ss finances were sadly impacted because of the pandemic. I appreciate this
mustve been a difficult time for them and I empathise with the position they found 
themselves in due to no fault of their own.
Barclays complied with the FCAs guidance by granting a six-month payment deferral. The
FCAs guidance said that after the six-month deferral period had ended, it expected
lenders to consider tailored ongoing support for customers if needed, But, in these
circumstances normal credit reporting would resume.
Mr C and Miss S were granted a temporary switch to interest only to allow more time for their
circumstances to improve. This ended in January 2021. Various conversations took place
between Barclays and Miss S in February 2021. Miss S explained their circumstances hadnt
improved. She was actively seeking a longer-term solution from Barclays.
Barclays policy says that when a customer is experiencing financial vulnerability (as was the
case here), the customer must be passed to Customer Home Assistance who will speak
with the customer to find a solution appropriate to their situation with the aim of preventing
further deterioration of the customers finances. Barclays agrees Mr C and Miss S were in a
vulnerable position.
On 24 February 2021 Miss S was promised a call back from CHA. This didnt happen.
Miss S says she was actively trying to call Barclays to get through to the team. She
subsequently raised a complaint in April 2021 about the poor customer service and her
inability to speak to anyone in the relevant team. So, I find it plausible that she was keen to
address their situation and find a solution.
When Barclays responded to the complaint it acknowledged that multiple call backs werent
completed and offered £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Considering everything, I think Barclays should have done more than simply ask Mr C and
Miss S to call again to speak to CHA. A suitable appointment could have been agreed to
avoid any ongoing uncertainty.
Its unclear from Barclays contact notes whether Mr C and Miss Ss account was ever
referred to CHA or that all the possible options were explored, and any decisions made 
about suitable solutions were clearly justified to Mr C and Miss S in line with the relevant 
rules. Their request for an extension to the interest only terms was simply declined on the 
grounds that they were in arrears. But Mr C and Miss S felt that the lack of support from 
Barclays had exacerbated their situation. They say they could afford their interest payments 
so couldnt understand why this was deemed to be an unsuitable option for them.
Further conversations took place where it appears Mr C and Miss S were refusing any help
other than an extended switch to interest only. They also made several promises to clear the
arrears with funds lent to them from family. This didnt happen. Arguably, it could appear to
Barclays that Mr C and Miss S werent engaging in terms of exploring other options. But I do
think the communication breakdown had a part to play here.
Barclays should have treated Mr C and Miss S fairly during their period of financial difficultyand done what it could in the circumstances to try and help them get their mortgage back on
track. Im persuaded that if Barclays had acted fairly and provided Mr C and Miss S with 
clear information about the suitable options available to them, theyd be more engaging with
Barclays to reach an agreement. I say this because Mr C and Miss S were, overall,
proactively engaging with Barclays about their circumstances. Things spiralled and the
account was passed to litigation. This understandably caused further distress to what was
already a difficult time for them. And by this point the relationship had completely broken
down.
In accordance with the relevant rules, when a customer is experiencing financial difficulty, a
lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problems
faced looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved.
Mr C and Miss Ss employment problems didnt appear to be short term. By February 2021
things still werent back on track after almost 12 months. I dont think Barclays acted
unreasonably by not agreeing further short-term solutions. As these would in turn cause
more arrears to accrue and it hadnt seen anything concrete to say Mr C and Miss Ss
circumstances would improve. In hindsight that has been proven, as Mr C and Miss S are
still largely experiencing ongoing financial difficulty with the inability to make full payments
towards their mortgage or reduce their arrears.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. Based on what Ive seen Im not
persuaded Barclays fully explored all the possible options before passing the account to
litigation. As such it needs to take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded Mr C and Miss S were given a fair chance to address their arrears before
their account was passed to litigation. Barclays should take the account back from litigation
and consider suitable concessions in light of what it now knows about Mr C and Miss Ss
circumstances. This is to ensure any agreed arrangement is affordable and sustainable
moving forward.
Barclays should actively engage with Mr C and Miss S to fully understand their current
circumstances. Im not able to guarantee that a suitable concession can be agreed in the
circumstances. But, in line with the rules, Barclays must give fair consideration to all the
possible options and clearly justify their decision to offer (or not offer) a particular
concession.
Im not satisfied £75 fairly compensates Mr C and Miss S In the circumstances. Barclays
should have carried out all the necessary steps as set out above sooner, before passing the
account to litigation. Its actions understandably caused Mr C and Miss S considerable
distress, upset and worry as a result of the ongoing uncertainty. I think its fair Barclays
increases its compensation award to £500 to acknowledge the impact this has had on Mr C
and Miss S over the past 18 months and the ongoing impact this had on their mental
wellbeing.
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK
PLC to:
actively engage with Mr C and Miss S to fully understand their circumstances;
give fair consideration to all the options set out in the rules and clearly justify itsdecision to offer (or not offer) a particular concession; and
pay Mr C and Miss S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to date.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision  giving reasons why they disagree. 
In summary Mr C and Miss S said that because of everything thats happened, theyve 
remained on Barclays standard variable rate since their fixed rate deal ended in December 
2021. Theyre concerned interest rates have risen and they want Barclays to agree a 
backdated rate switch. They dont think £500 fairly compensates them. 
Barclays said Mr C and Miss Ss account isnt in litigation and never has been. Barclays has 
been trying to assist them to date. Mr C and Miss S havent resumed full payments and they 
have arrears in excess of £20,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision.
Mr C and Miss Ss fixed rate deal ended in December 2021  during the complaint process. 
I asked for further clarity on the point theyve raised. Miss C said they havent applied for a 
rate switch with Barclays. They felt they werent in a good position to request a new interest 
rate because of their situation. Ive carefully considered what theyve said but I cant say 
there was anything preventing them from at least trying to obtain a new rate. I cant 
reasonably hold Barclays responsible for a decision they made not to apply for a new rate.
Had they tried to switch rates sooner and been declined by Barclays then thats possibly 
something our service could consider in addition to the initial complaint. But that is not the 
case here, so not something Ive made a finding on in this decision.
As part of my provisional direction to Barclays, I said it should consider all the suitable 
options available to Mr C and Miss S now, to support them in the circumstances. That 
includes exploring the interest rates currently available to Mr C and Miss S. 
Barclays has re-sent the call notes that I already had sight of and considered when 
reaching my provisional decision  bar a few additional calls that took place since its 
original file submission. Therefore, Ive seen no new information that satisfies me I need to 
divert from my original decision. For reasons Ive already explained, Im not satisfied there 
has been full consideration and justification of all the options available to Mr C and Miss S 
to date in line with the relevant Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) 13.3.4A and MCOB 
13.3.4C rules around treating customers with payment shortfalls fairly. 
Both parties should engage, which Mr C and Miss S are keen to do, to explore ways to try 
and help get the account back on track. I appreciate Barclays confirming the account is not 
in litigation yet, but I can see evidence of at least pre-litigation steps. It appears action has 
been placed on hold until the outcome of this complaint. For reasons Ive explained, before 
any further litigation process commences, Barclays should consider the steps Ive set out in 
this final decision.
So, when considering everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. Putting things right
Im not persuaded Mr C and Miss S were given a fair chance to address their arrears before
their account was passed to litigation. Barclays should take the account back from litigation
and consider suitable concessions in light of what it now knows about Mr C and Miss Ss
circumstances. This is to ensure any agreed arrangement is affordable and sustainable
moving forward.
Barclays should actively engage with Mr C and Miss S to fully understand their current
circumstances. The Customer Home Assistance should call Mr C and Miss S within two 
weeks, if my decision is accepted by Mr C and Mrs S. I consider this to be a reasonable 
timeframe.  Mr C and Miss S should respond and be forthcoming on their part too.
Im not able to guarantee that a suitable concession can be agreed in the circumstances. 
But, in line with the MCOB rules, Barclays must give fair consideration to all the possible 
options and clearly justify their decision to offer (or not offer) a particular concession.
Im not satisfied £75 fairly compensates Mr C and Miss S In the circumstances. Barclays
should have carried out all the necessary steps as set out above sooner, before 
commencing litigation. Its actions understandably caused Mr C and Miss S considerable
distress, upset and worry as a result of the ongoing uncertainty. I think its fair Barclays
increases its compensation award to £500 to acknowledge the impact this has had on Mr C
and Miss S over the past 18 months and the ongoing impact this had on their mental
wellbeing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
actively engage with Mr C and Miss S to fully understand their circumstances;
give fair consideration to all the options set out in the rules and clearly justify its
decision to offer (or not offer) a particular concession; and
pay Mr C and Miss S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman