DRN-2855309
The complaint
Ms C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has turned down a 
cancellation claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
Ms C is represented by Mr B.
What happened
Ms C had booked a holiday to a country Ill call N. She was due to fly abroad on 19 February 
2020, via a country Ill call S, and she planned to return to the UK on 3 March 2020.
However, both N and S had reported cases of Covid-19 a few weeks before Ms C was due 
to travel. Based on Ms Cs type of work, she considered it was likely that Covid-19 would 
become a pandemic and that travel restrictions would likely need to be imposed on both N 
and S during her planned travel dates. So she cancelled her trip and made a claim on her 
travel insurance policy for the costs associated with cancelling her trip.
LV turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy provided cover if the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised against all, or all but essential travel to 
a policyholders destination. In Ms Cs case, there was no FCO advice against travelling to N 
or S at the point she cancelled the trip. So it concluded that the claim wasnt covered.
Ms C was unhappy with LVs decision and so Mr B asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think LV had acted unfairly. She felt the policy terms made it clear that 
LV would only cover a cancellation claim if the FCO had advised against travel. In this case, 
there was no FCO advice advising against travel to either S or N at the point Ms C cancelled 
her holiday. So she thought itd been fair for LV to turn down the claim.
Mr B disagreed. He said Ms C had been tracking Covid-19 developments and her own risk 
assessment had concluded that a lockdown in S or N was very likely during her trip. So 
shed felt that travelling would be against her own, LVs and the wider communitys interests. 
The costs of flights via another route had already sky-rocketed and it was only a matter of 
time before the FCO advised against travel. Mr B said Ms C didnt dispute the literal 
interpretation of the policy terms. But she was unhappy that taking a course of action to 
protect LVs interests (and those of the wider community) had led to her financing the 
consequences of it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, I think it was fair for LV to turn down her 
claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms Cs policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether LV handled the 
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms Cs policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with LV. As Ms C cancelled her trip before she was due to travel, I think it was 
appropriate for LV to consider her claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This 
says:
If you need to cancel a trip before it begins because of one of the reasons shown below, 
well pay up to £5,000 if you have an Essential policy or up to £10,000 if you have a
Premier policy, for your part of personal accommodation, transport charges and other trip
expenses which youve paid or agreed to pay, but have not used.
If you or a relative or someone you are going to stay with or a travelling companion or
a colleague, dies, is seriously injured or becomes seriously ill.
If you or a travelling companion become pregnant after booking a trip and after the
policy cover start date, and are advised by your doctor not to travel.
If you or a travelling companion, is called for Jury service in the United Kingdom or as
a witness in a court in the United Kingdom, or are put into compulsory quarantine.
If you or a travelling companion are needed by the police following a burglary, or
damage caused by fire, storm, flood, explosion, subsidence, vandalism, fallen trees,
impact by aircraft or vehicle at your home or their home or usual place of business in
the United Kingdom.
If you are made redundant and qualify for payment under current United Kingdom
redundancy payment legislation, and there was no reason for you to think this would
happen when the policy was purchased or the trip was booked. No cover is provided 
if you have chosen to take voluntary redundancy.
If you or a travelling companion are a member of the Armed Forces, or Territorial 
Army, or police, fire, nursing or ambulance services and have authorised leave 
cancelled or are called up for operational reasons. This cover will only apply if the 
need to cancel a trip could not reasonably have been expected at the time this 
insurance was purchased and at the time of booking any trip. Well need written 
confirmation from your employer that your trip had to be cancelled.
If the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advises against all travel' or all but
essential travel to your planned destination after you have booked transport or
accommodation for your trip, and after the start date of your policy.LV has also set out a summary of the cancellation cover it provides in its policy summary. 
The main features, benefits and restrictions section of this summary relating to cancellation 
also sets out that LV will cover cancellation if the FCO advises against travel to a planned 
destination.
I agree with the investigator that LV is entitled to decide that it will cover cancellation if the 
FCO advises against travel, so long as these risks are clearly set out in the policy literature. 
And I think that LV has clearly set out the insured events it covers should a policyholder 
need to make a claim within its policy documentation. 
In this case, Ms C was due to travel on 19 February 2020. It appears she got in touch with 
LV on 17 February 2020 to make a cancellation claim. At this point, while I accept there had 
been Covid-19 cases reported in both S and N, the FCO hadnt advised against all, or all but 
essential travel to either of these destinations. So I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to 
conclude that Ms Cs claim didnt fall within the scope of the cancellation cover provided by 
the policy. In fact, the World Health Organisation didnt declare Covid-19 to be a pandemic 
until 11 March 2020. And the FCO didnt advise against all but essential travel abroad 
(encompassing S and N) until 17 March 2020. This was around two weeks after Ms C was 
due to return from her trip. 
I can entirely understand, given Ms Cs risk assessment, why she didnt feel it was 
appropriate to travel. So I understand why she chose to cancel her trip, rather than take the 
risk of travel restrictions being imposed while she was away. I also appreciate Ms Cs 
planned travelling companions claim was paid. I note though that the travel route involved in 
the third partys claim differed to Ms Cs and that was the reason why LV concluded their 
claim was covered. I sympathise with Ms Cs position, because I appreciate shes been left 
out of pocket as a result of deciding to cancel her trip. But I dont think it was unfair for LV to 
decide that Ms Cs circumstances simply werent covered by her contract with it. So it follows 
Im satisfied that it was fair for LV to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman