DRN-3265480
The complaint
Mr I complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Where I refer to Haven, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Haven 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Is claim and his complaint is a van first registered in about 2012.
For the year from 10 December 2020, Mr I insured the van on a Haven commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. 
In early January 2021, Mr I reported to Haven that someone had stolen the van from his 
home address overnight. 
On about 25 January 2021, the van was recovered with damage and its engine missing. 
Haven treated the van as a total loss in category B and sent the vehicle to salvage agents.
By about 10 March 2021, Haven declined Mr Is claim, saying that he hadnt been keeping 
the vehicle in the garage at his address.
Haven sent Mr I a cheque for the salvage of the vehicle.
Mr I complained to Haven. By a final response dated 25 May 2021, Haven turned down the 
complaint.
Mr I brought his complaint to us in late July 2021.
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Haven had unfairly cancelled the policy and repudiated Mr Is claim. The investigator didnt 
think Mr I declared his vehicle would be parked in a garage. The investigator recommended 
that Haven should:
1.pay Mr Is claim of 3 January 2021; and 
2.pay an additional 8% simple interest on the claim from when it was repudiated (10 
March 2021) until the date this complaint is settled; and
3.pay Mr I £200 compensation for the distress caused to him by repudiating his claim 
and cancelling his policy; and
4. any payments received and cashed by Mr I can be deducted from this amount.
Haven provided further information and the investigator changed his opinion. He didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Haven had unfairly 
cancelled the policy and repudiated Mr Is claim. The investigator was satisfied that a clear 
question was asked regarding the overnight parking of the vehicle.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He only completed 34% of the information on the comparison website as he had to 
measure his garage to see if the van would fit.
As the van was too large for the garage, he had to search via other comparison sites 
where he changed his statement.
The final agreement over the phone was for the van to not be put in a garage.
He paid around £2,000.00 for the full year. 
He was not refunded the remaining balance upon cancelling his insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The most recent evidence from Haven identified a comparison website and sent us a 
screenshot that included the following:
Please confirm where you will predominantly keep your vehicle overnight. In a 
locked garage  this must be an enclosed lockable building.
34% complete.
Mr I has responded to that by suggesting that these details remained incomplete and he 
used another comparison website.
But Ive seen a statement of fact document that includes the following:
Vehicle Details
Purchase date 01/09/2020
Overnight location Garage
So I find that Mr I had bought the van in September 2020. And hed had the van for over 2 
months when he took out the policy with Haven in December 2020. 
I find that the website had asked Mr I where he would predominantly keep the vehicle 
overnight. Im satisfied that was a clear question. 
And I find that he answered that he would predominantly keep the van in a garage overnight. 
I find that, by then, he mustve known that the van didnt fit in the garage.
I consider that he made a misrepresentation that he would usually keep the van overnight in 
a garage. Im not satisfied that Mr I made a fair presentation of risk to Haven. I consider that he made that misrepresentation not only carelessly but recklessly as to the 
truth. He knew he couldnt keep the van in the garage.
Ive also seen a policy schedule with endorsements including the following:
Overnight Parking If the vehicle on this insurance is damaged or stolen overnight 
and not kept in the declared locked building or compound, private driveway or carport 
your claim will be declined.
That endorsement applied if the vehicle wasnt kept in the declared place. I find that Mr I 
had declared that he would keep his van in the garage at his address.
The endorsement shows that the overnight location of the van was material to Haven. I find 
that, if Mr I had said the van would usually be parked on a driveway or on a road, Haven 
wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr I on the terms that it did. So  Mr I had made a 
qualifying misrepresentation according to the Insurance Act 2015. 
Mr I had recklessly made a qualifying misrepresentation of risk to Haven. So it was entitled 
under the Insurance Act to cancel his policy, decline his claim and not to refund any of his 
yearly premium. Also, the policy endorsement applied. So Haven was entitled to decline the 
claim for that reason too. 
So I dont find that Haven treated Mr I unfairly by cancelling his policy, declining his claim 
and not refunding any of his yearly premium.
As the van was a category B total loss, it couldnt be returned to the road. So Im satisfied 
that Haven did enough by sending Mr I a cheque for its salvage value. If Mr I hasnt 
presented that cheque for payment, then I expect Haven to provide Mr I with a replacement 
cheque if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman