DRN-2442798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about the decision made by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to 
decline a claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs R submitted a claim for subsidence to UKI. UKI appointed a 
specialist contractor to investigate the cause of the damage.
UKI considered the contractors report and said the cause of subsidence was due to 
defective foundations of the extension of the property, which was built in 2013. It said the 
foundations were too shallow for the type of soil the extension was built on, and so it relied 
on a faulty design exclusion in Mr and Mrs Rs policy to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs R complained about UKIs decision to decline the claim. They said the extension 
had been signed off by the appropriate building control and disputed some of the findings in 
UKIs report as to the foundation depth. UKI provided its final response and maintained its 
position to decline the claim. In its final response UKI said the minimum required depth of the 
foundations should have been 900mm, but its investigations had found the foundations were 
750mm deep.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs R referred the complaint to our service. They said 
they were attempting to get a structural engineer report to validate what they believed to be 
a deeper foundation depth of around 1 metre for their extension, which would therefore 
contradict the depth shown in UKIs report. But they were unable to do so due to the     
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
found it was unfair for UKI to rely on the faulty design exclusion to decline the claim because 
Mr and Mrs Rs extension had been signed off by Building Control. So they found this 
document persuasive in showing the extension was deemed to have met the relevant 
building regulations. They recommended UKI settle the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
Mr and Mrs R accepted our investigators findings. UKI disagreed. It said the Building 
Control document didnt show the foundations of the extension were designed in line with 
building regulations. So it said Mr and Mrs R should have sought further design guidance 
rather than relying on the building inspector, and it said they should have also taken into 
account the nearby vegetation.
UKI was asked what depth it thought the foundations should have been, and it said in this 
case the depth should have been 2.5 metres, taking into account the influence of nearby 
vegetation.
The complaint was then passed to a second investigator for review and they also 
recommended the complaint be upheld. They didnt think the standards UKI had relied on 
with regard to foundation depth were relevant to Mr and Mrs Rs extension. They agreed           
Mr and Mrs R had taken reasonable precautions in getting the extension signed off by 
Building Control. And they found that had the extension been built with deeper foundations, 
then it was likely a subsidence problem would still have occurred due to the depth that the 
roots were found in the underlying soil.
UKI disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
maintained the position that the extension didnt comply with the building regulations and 
said it had shown that the correct depth of the foundation should have been calculated at 2.5 
metres.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigators for the reasons 
set out below.
UKI has referenced a number of decisions for me to consider where our service has decided 
on previous cases that it was fair for an insurer to apply an exclusion for poor workmanship  
based on the depth of the foundation and on guidelines attributed to an organisation which 
supports the building standards of new homes, who Ill refer to as N. But our service looks at 
each individual case on its own merits, so it is for me to decide whether or not UKI has fairly 
applied the exclusion for faulty workmanship in Mr and Mrs Rs case.
UKI has relied on an exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs Rs subsidence claim which states, 
Just like most insurers we dont cover: Faulty workmanship, faulty design, or the use of 
faulty materials. 
In order for UKI to decline Mr and Mrs Rs claim fairly, it needs to show this exclusion 
applies.
Ive considered the report provided of the site investigations which states, the extension 
foundation was 750mm deepConifer roots were evident to a depth of 1.5 metres. The 
report goes on to state, it should have been constructed in accordance with BS8004 to 
accommodate the moisture demand of the hedgethe required depth to the rear left-hand 
corner would be 2.5 metresIn accordance with current Best Practice, as the extension was 
built by the insured and the vegetation was in place at the time, the claim will be declined 
under the faulty design and workmanship exclusion. 
So I need to consider what standards UKI are referring to here to decline the claim, against 
what I find to be the relevant regulations applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs extension.
UKI has said the extension needed to comply with the Building Regulations 2010, and I 
agree with this point. But the Building Regulations 2010 and relevant approved documents 
that accompany it are not prescriptive when it comes to determining foundation depth in each individual scenario. The relevant passage from the building regulations states The 
building shall be constructed so that ground movement caused by  (a) swelling, shrinkage, 
or freezing of the subsoilwill not impair the stability of any part of the building. The 
approved document goes on to state The depth to the underside of [strip] foundations on 
clay soils should not be less than 0.75m, although this depth will commonly need to be 
increased in order to transfer the loading onto satisfactory ground. So I next need to 
consider what UKI has relied on to say the depth of Mr and Mrs Rs foundations shouldve 
been increased.
UKI has confirmed it has relied on Ns guidelines here. UKI says these guidelines show the 
foundations of the extension should have been at least 2.5 metres, due to where the 
vegetation is present and based upon the subsoil identified. However, the guidelines UKI 
has referred to are designed to apply to new build properties covered by Ns guarantee. In 
other words, only builders that work on these properties must follow Ns guidelines. Mr and 
Mrs Rs extension was built around 2013, and as such the guidelines quoted would not have 
been relevant to the builder at all.
I understand the point UKI is making with regard to Ns guidelines when it says that all 
builders should reference them as accepted building standards. But Ive not seen any firm 
evidence to show this is the case. And it would seem that this would mean Mr and Mrs R 
and the builder would be held to a higher standard than they were actually required to meet 
under the Building Regulations 2010. I say this because whilst a builder could consider N 
when planning the foundation depth of an extension, it only needs to consider the 
regulations.
So as I cant see that the above guidelines are relevant, I will instead take into account what 
the Building Regulations 2010 say above, and what would have been considered a 
reasonable foundation at the time the extension was built to decide if UKI have shown the 
foundations were poorly designed.
To do this, Ive next considered the documentation and certificate from Building Control, 
which was signed off by the local authority at the time the extension was planned and built. 
The document confirms that Building Control were prepared to certify the extension, having 
inspected the ground conditions. And the document has been signed by a building control 
officer to show Mr and Mrs R complied with the building regulations.
UKI has said the Building Control document cannot be relied on as it is common for 
Completion Certificates to be issued by Local Authorities even though the foundation hasnt 
been designed in accordance with the building regulations. And it says the reason for this is 
because Ns requirements havent been considered in the construction. But Im not 
persuaded this shows the regulations werent followed. I say this because as Ive set out 
above I dont find Ns requirements are the relevant guidelines here.Mr and Mrs R have provided additional evidence to show the planning and consideration of 
the foundations. Within one of the planning documents it states To be common brickwork 
belowon 600wide x 225mm thick concrete strip footingstaken down to suitable load 
bearing strata subject to LA approvalOR To be 600mm trench fill consisting mass 
concreteto min depth 1mand to local authority approvalNote: Building Control 
Officer/Structural Engineer to be consulted if suitable load bearing strata is not found at a 
depth of 1m due to poor soil conditions, desiccated clay, tree roots etc.
Based on everything Ive seen, I find the Building Control document the most persuasive. It 
clearly states the local authority building control officer would have been inspecting the work 
throughout the build and as such, if there were any issues with an aspect of the build it 
would have been raised at the time. Ive not seen any evidence of this, rather, it seems due 
consideration was given to the ground conditions in the planning of the extension, which was 
deemed satisfactory to meet the building regulations by Building Control.
As such, given the Building Control document was signed off with no evidence of issues 
raised during construction, I find it fair to conclude that Mr and Mrs R took reasonable steps 
to ensure their extension was adequately designed and met building regulations.
In summary, Im not persuaded UKI has shown the foundations needed to be 2.5m deep to 
comply with the relevant building regulations. And I think that had the extensions 
foundations been slightly deeper to further take into account the nearby vegetation, then the 
property would have most likely subsided anyway due to the dominant cause of clay 
shrinkage happening in the underlying, deeper soil. And the certificate Mr and Mrs R have 
provided from Building Control shows the extension did comply with building regulations, as 
it was required to. So Im not persuaded UKI has applied the exclusion for faulty 
workmanship fairly.
I find that UKI must now meet Mr and Mrs Rs claim subject to any remaining policy terms.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs R, UKI must:
Accept Mr and Mrs Rs claim, subject to any other policy terms and clauses (such as 
an excess).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited and I require it 
to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman