DRN-3746451
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that a repair carried out by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited
(RSA) under their home emergency assistance policy caused further damage in their home.
Mr T and Mrs Ts policy was administered by a third-party company but, for ease of
reference, Ill mostly refer to RSA in this decision since its responsible for the complaint.
What happened
Mr T notified RSA of faults with two of his toilets in November 2021 and RSAs repairer fitted
each of them with a new push button toilet kit. But on the same evening as the repairs were
carried out, one of Mr and Mrs Ts toilets started to leak and Mr T saw the cistern was
cracked. Mr T says this happened because RSAs repairer had over-tightened a bolt hed
had to remove (and then refit) to replace the toilet kit. Mr T sent RSA a photo showing cracks
coming from where the bolt had been re-fitted.
RSA said it would pay Mr T and Mrs T 50% of the cost of replacing the toilet as a goodwill
gesture (since their home emergency insurance policy didnt cover the cost of replacing
sanitary ware). Mr T and Mrs T initially accepted RSAs offer but, on reflection, thought it
should pay the full cost of replacing the toilet. Mr T is also unhappy he had to chase RSA for
updates.
So Mr T and Mrs T brought their complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it
in part. He said it was more likely than not RSAs repairer overtightened the bolt, causing the
toilet to crack under pressure. So he said it was fair and reasonable for RSA to pay
Mr T and Mrs T the full cost of replacing the toilet. Our investigator didnt think RSAs
response times in dealing with this problem were unfair, though, so he didnt uphold this part
of Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint.
Initially, RSA didnt respond to our investigators view on the complaint, and Mr T and Mrs T
didnt comment on it, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. More
recently RSA said it had no comments in addition to those it had already made. 
In my provisional decision of 13 September 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold       
Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint. Neither Mr T and Mrs T nor RSA has responded to my 
provisional decision, which has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
When Mr T first notified RSA of the fault with this toilet, I understand it was because it was
continually flushing. From the evidence Ive seen, the toilet wasnt leaking. It was only on the
evening after the repair that it started leaking. We have a photo from Mr T which he says
was taken after the repair. It shows cracks coming from a central bolt at the bottom of the
cistern. Both Mr T and RSA agree RSAs repairer wouldve needed to remove the bolt  and
then refit it  to fit the new toilet kit.
Mr T says the cistern was cracked by RSAs repairer over-tightening the bolt. RSAs repairer
disputes this and RSA says that, as the toilet broke after its repairer had left, its difficult to
prove if the repairer caused the damage. It also queries if the damage was unavoidable 
on the basis that given the material of the toilet it is not unknown for this to crack anyway.
Im not persuaded by RSAs arguments. The toilet wasnt leaking before it was repaired. But
Mr T and Mrs T noticed it was leaking on the same evening the repair was carried out. The
photo of the cistern shows cracks coming from a bolt RSAs repairer had removed and then
refitted to carry out the repair. When an insurer carries out a repair, we expect it to be an
effective and lasting one. From what Ive seen so far, RSA hasnt shown it carried out an
effective and lasting repair on Mr T and Mrs Ts toilet. From the evidence Ive seen, I think
its more likely than not RSAs repairer overtightened the bolt, and then the pressure caused
the cistern to crack and the toilet to leak.
So my current view is that the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this
complaint is for RSA to pay Mr T and Mrs T the total cost of replacing the toilet. From what
RSA says in its final response letter to Mr T, I believe this cost is around £240 but please
could Mr T and RSA confirm this is correct.
Mr T is also unhappy with how RSA dealt with him after he reported the problem. RSAs
internal notes say Mr T had to chase for updates on several occasions. They also say an
email Mr T sent was indexed to the wrong file, which it seems led to a further delay and
confusion. RSAs notes refer to Mr T as saying hes been kept in the dark. And they
describe him as being very frustrated that he has to keep chasing for an update. So I
intend to direct RSA to pay Mr T and Mrs T £100 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience its handling of this issue has caused Mr T.
As Ive mentioned, neither Mr T and Mrs T nor RSA has responded to my provisional 
decision. That means I havent had confirmation about the cost of the replacement toilet  so 
this is something RSA and Mr T and Mrs T will need to agree. Having looked at everything 
else again, I see no reason to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, and which now form part of this final 
decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr T and Mrs T the cost of replacing the toilet that had the cracked cistern (which its my 
understanding is around £240). I also direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr T and Mrs T £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused Mr T.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Mr T and Mrs T these amounts with 28 
days of the date we tell it they accept my final decision. If it doesnt, Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited must pay interest on them at the rate of 8 % a year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jane GallacherOmbudsman