DRN-3299414
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica UK Limited trading as 
O2, which she says was taken out in her name by somebody else.
Throughout this complaint, Mrs B has been represented by her son. But, to make things 
easier, Ill just refer to Mrs B.
What happened
In January 2016, Mrs B took out a Pay As You Go (PAYG) agreement with Telefonica and 
was given a handset by a separate supplier. Towards the end of that agreement, Mrs B says 
a third party, who Ill call A, contacted Telefonica to try and change the agreement on 
Mrs Bs behalf and upgrade to a new handset. The upgrade wasnt completed and 
Telefonica wrote to Mrs B to explain what had happened.
At the start of 2018, Mrs Bs personal circumstances were such that she was receiving help 
from family members with her day to day life. Around the same time, Mrs B says a second 
attempt was made by A to upgrade the handset with Telefonica. On this occasion it was 
successful, and Telefonica agreed to a fixed sum loan on Mrs Bs account, where she would 
pay £49 a month over two years for a brand new handset.
Mrs B says she didnt authorise the upgrade and that she was the victim of fraud by A. She 
says she found out what had happened, once Telefonica started debt recovery proceedings 
against her. Mrs B has explained A was found guilty of committing fraud by a court shortly 
after the fixed sum loan was agreed with Telefonica. Mrs B also says the police kept the 
handset as evidence, so she hasnt ever had possession of it.
After bringing her concerns to Telefonica in May 2018, they said they would cancel Mrs Bs 
agreement, if she could return the handset and provide further evidence about the difficulties 
she has with her health. Mrs B replied and complained that Telefonica were ignoring her 
personal circumstances and hadnt considered how the handset was collected from their 
store.
Telefonica didnt change their approach to Mrs Bs concerns, so she brought her complaint 
to us. One of our investigators looked into the case and found that Telefonica hadnt treated 
Mrs B and her personal circumstances fairly. She concluded that Mrs B hadnt authorised 
the application for the fixed sum loan and couldnt return the handset as it was still with the 
police. 
The investigator said Telefonica should cancel the fixed sum loan agreement with nothing 
further to pay, refund any repayments Mrs B has made and add interest to those amounts. 
And to remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies. The 
investigator also said Telefonica should pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
she had experienced.
Telefonica accepted the investigators conclusions, but Mrs B didnt. She said the missed 
payment information on her credit file had caused her to miss out on a house purchase. 
Mrs B also said that when she took out personal loans, she was given a higher interest rate 
than normal.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and said there were other factors involved 
with any potential mortgage or loan application Mrs B may have made. So, Mrs Bs case has 
now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The application
In the months prior to the fixed sum loan application, Telefonicas records show that Mrs B 
gave A and another person authorisation to speak to them on her behalf. This authorisation 
didnt extend to making changes on Mrs Bs account with Telefonica.
From the information we have, I can see A tried to make changes on Mrs Bs account in 
November 2017. Telefonicas notes from the time show that they wrote directly to Mrs B and 
told her about an attempted upgrade. So, I think Telefonica was aware that A had tried to 
make unauthorised changes to Mrs Bs account before the fixed sum loan was agreed.
Mrs B has told us about her health concerns and her difficult personal circumstances. Ive 
said that Telefonica had Mrs Bs permission to talk about the account with the two people 
she had appointed. So, I think A was able to have access to and operate large parts of 
Mrs Bs day to day life. And given what Mrs B says about her circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for her to allow someone else to help with her affairs.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mrs B was careless by allowing A access to her various 
accounts and information.
Mrs B says she became aware of the fixed sum loan agreement when she started to receive 
letters from Telefonica about the missed payments and some contact from a debt recovery 
agent. But, it wasnt until 2019, where she realised what A had done. 
Telefonica has pointed to a telephone call they had with Mrs B, in April 2018 where they 
spoke about a contract. They say Mrs B was aware of the fixed sum loan agreement at this 
time and this supports their opinion that she authorised the upgrade. 
Telefonica dont have a recording of that call. And I dont think the very brief notes show that 
Mrs B was aware at this stage what A had done, or that she authorised the loan agreement.
On balance, I think Mrs B became aware of this agreement and others made by A 
throughout 2018. And given her personal circumstances, I think its reasonable that she was 
able to start tackling the result of As actions, over the following months into 2019.
In August 2020, Mrs B received a letter from A, in which he admits to taking out the fixed 
sum loan agreement in Mrs Bs name, without her authorisation. The letter has details of As 
own difficult circumstances, in so far as where it was sent from and whats happened to him 
since.
I think this evidence is persuasive and shows that Mrs B didnt allow A to make any 
borrowing applications in her name. So, I think this has consequences for the agreement 
taken out with Telefonica. Having considered everything, I dont think Mrs B authorised the fixed sum loan agreement 
with Telefonica. I think it was reasonable for A to have access to Mrs Bs information and I 
think Telefonica knew that A had tried previously to upgrade the handset on the account, 
where he wasnt authorised to do so. 
Mrs B has also provided the letter from A admitting to what he had done. So, I dont think its 
fair for Telefonica to hold Mrs B responsible for the agreement or the repayments due under 
it.
In light of my conclusions, I think its fair for Telefonica to allow Mrs B to exit the fixed sum 
loan agreement with nothing further to pay. I also think its fair for Telefonica to refund any 
repayments Mrs B has made towards the agreement since it was taken out in January 2018. 
Mrs B hasnt had the use of the funds taken by Telefonica, towards the agreement. 
So, I think its fair for Telefonica to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% on any repayment 
made, from the date the direct debit was taken, to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Additionally, I think its fair for Telefonica to remove any adverse information related to the 
fixed sum loan agreement from the information held by credit reference agencies.
The handset
Ive found that weve seen persuasive evidence that A was given a prison sentence. Ive also 
concluded that Mrs B didnt authorise the fixed sum loan agreement used to buy the mobile 
telephone handset. So, Ive considered what Mrs B has told us about the whereabouts of the 
handset.
Mrs B says she didnt have possession of the handset, as it was collected from a Telefonica 
store. But, she says she is unable to leave her house. Mrs B also says the handset has been 
retained by the police, as part of the evidence used in the case against A.
Having thought about all the circumstances, on balance, I dont think Mrs B collected the 
handset from the Telefonica store. I think its likely the handset was collected by A, as the 
letter outlines As actions towards the application for the fixed sum loan. Im also not 
persuaded that Mrs B has the handset now and that its likely the police have kept it.
In their initial review of Mrs Bs case, Telefonica asked her to return the handset, to allow 
them to end the agreement. Given my findings, I dont think Mrs B is able to do that and 
Telefonica have accepted that now, when they agreed with the investigators conclusions.
Overall, I dont think Telefonica treated Mrs B fairly when they first asked her to return the 
handset, in order to end the agreement. 
But I think their subsequent offer to allow Mrs B to exit the loan without returning the handset 
is fair. Should Telefonica want the handset returned, then they should contact the police 
force currently holding the device, to see if there is a way of getting it back.
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs B
I can see from the correspondence between Mrs B and Telefonica that she told them about 
her health difficulties in April 2018, a couple of months after the fixed sum loan was agreed. 
Mrs B told Telefonica that she was unwell and wanted to talk about the arrangements for a 
different account she has with them.
Telefonicas records show they tried to help Mrs B, following what she told them. I can see that Telefonica offered to cancel the agreement and allow her to return the handset. But, I 
can also see where Telefonica continued to contact Mrs B about the fixed sum loan 
agreement. And this resulted in Mrs B receiving contact from debt collections agencies. 
I think Telefonica had a duty to treat Mrs Bs personal and financial difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. Although I agree Telefonica made some attempt to help 
Mrs B in May 2018, I cannot see that further effective engagement or assistance followed. 
And I think this caused unnecessary upset to Mrs B.
By April 2019, Telefonicas records show that Mrs B had informed them that she didnt 
authorise the fixed sum loan agreement. Telefonica reiterated their offer to cancel the 
agreement if the handset returned. Mrs B told Telefonica that the handset had been taken by 
the police, so she didnt have it. However, Telefonica continued to pursue Mrs B for the loan 
repayments.
I think Telefonica had enough information at this point to look to cancel the agreement and 
accept that the handset couldnt be returned by Mrs B. I think Telefonicas pursuit of Mrs B 
added to her worry of what she had experienced over the previous year. So, I think its fair 
for Telefonica to make a payment to Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
to her.
Mrs B says the missed payment information recorded by Telefonica with credit reference 
agencies, meant she missed out on getting a mortgage and the limit for her credit card 
account was reduced. She also says any loans that she applied for, were offered to her at a 
higher interest rate. 
Its true that lenders may base a part of their lending decisions on the information they 
collect from credit reference agencies. But, I agree with the investigator, in that there may be 
other factors involved here, which mean Mrs B didnt receive the outcome she wanted, from 
any lending applications shes made since January 2018. So, I dont think its fair to ask 
Telefonica to compensate Mrs B for that.
I accept and empathise with Mrs B in that the personal circumstances she has dealt with 
over the last four years have been very troubling. And while I can see that Telefonica could 
have, at times, treated her more sympathetically, I also acknowledge that the significant part 
of the worry shes experienced was likely caused by As actions.
Overall though, having considered everything, I think a payment of £250 is fair for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B by Telefonica. 
I note that part of Mrs Bs complaint is that she wants to keep the telephone number given to 
her when she took out the PAYG service with Telefonica in 2016. I make no finding about 
that here, as it falls outside of our reach. But, Id encourage Telefonica to engage with Mrs B, 
to see if they are able to help further.
Putting things right
Having considered everything, to put things right Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 
should:
- allow Mrs B to exit the fixed sum loan agreement with nothing further to pay;
- refund any repayments towards the fixed sum loan agreement made by Mrs B;
- pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on each refunded repayment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement;
- remove any adverse information recorded about the fixed sum loan with credit 
reference agencies; and
- pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Telefonica UK 
Limited trading as O2 should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman