DRN-3451883
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Funding Circle unfairly rejected its 
request for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme. 
Mr W is Gs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
G approached Funding Circle in March 2021 with a view to taking out a Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan (CBIL). G was required to provide some bank statements to 
support its application, which it uploaded. But Funding Circle didnt accept statements issued 
by Gs banking services provider  so it declined to consider the application further.
When Mr W complained about this, Funding Circle maintained its decision. It further 
explained that it couldnt accept the format of statements from Gs banking services provider, 
which in turn meant it couldnt use them to complete its credit assessment. 
Mr W didnt think Funding Circle had treated G fairly and asked us to review the matter. He 
said that Funding Circle initially accepted the application and only belatedly advised him that 
Gs statements were an issue, which he didnt accept as he thought Funding Circle couldve 
obtained the information it needed through other ways. He said hed been given different 
explanations as to why the application proceed and that G had been left unable to access 
the CBIL Scheme as it had closed to new applications by the time Funding Circle had 
reached its decision.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He said, in summary, that:
Funding Circle was entitled to decide what documentation it needed to assess Gs 
application and, as its requirements werent met, had acted in reasonably in declining 
the request.
The application hadnt been approved at any point. The application was only 
completed on submission of the bank statements on 7 April, but was then subject to 
review. And there was no delay in Funding Circles review, having confirmed its 
decision to decline the application a day after receiving the statements from G. It was 
unfortunate that the CBIL Scheme had closed by this time.
Funding Circle had, however, caused confusion when explaining its position to Mr W. 
It had initially told him that the CBIL Scheme was closed and it was only when Mr W 
challenged this that Funding Circle told him of the bank statement issue. And it didnt 
deal properly with Mr Ws follow-up questions as to its policy and entitlement to apply 
this given the CBIL Scheme was government-backed. So he recommended that 
Funding Circle pay G compensation of £150 for the inconvenience this had caused.
Funding Circle accepted our investigators recommendation but Mr W didnt. He didnt think it 
was right to say that the application had been declined, but rather that it wasnt processed. 
He highlighted inconsistences with Funding Circles explanations of its rationale, believing 
that it was simply a failure to process it before the CBIL Scheme deadline of 31 March 2021. 
In any event, he still didnt think it was reasonable to decline a request due to the format of a 
bank statement, which was something that could have been easily resolved.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. I should point out that in doing so, I wont address each and 
every point that Mr W has raised in his submissions. While Ive read and considered 
everything hes said and provided, Ill focus on the matters I consider most relevant to my 
decision.
Mr Ws position is that Funding Circle didnt decline Gs application, but instead failed to 
consider it before the CBIL Scheme closed. I can see why he thinks that, given thats what 
the initial correspondence he received about the outcome suggested. Its difficult for me to 
confirm the position beyond doubt, but I think it most likely that Funding Circle did review the 
application on submission of Gs statements  given that its decision was only reached on 
8 April (being the day after the statements were submitted, with the Scheme having closed 
on 31 March). And lenders had a window of time in which to process applications that were 
already underway, as Gs was.
As to the reason behind its decision, Funding Circle has said that it doesnt accept bank 
statements from Gs banking services provider. This is not to do with the format of the 
statements themselves, but rather the provider itself. As such it forms part of Funding 
Circles risk appetite, which is not something we would typically interfere with and I dont 
think there are grounds for me to do so here. There was also, then, no alternative solution to 
overcome Funding Circles basis for declining Gs request, as Mr W has contested.
Given G banked with a provider that didnt meet with Funding Circles criteria, it declined to 
proceed with the application. That was a decision it was entitled to make. While the CBIL 
Scheme was government-backed, lenders were still entitled to process applications in line 
with their existing policies and risk appetites. I think this decision was one that fell within 
Funding Circles discretion and I dont think it was applied unreasonably. 
It follows that I dont think Funding Circle unfairly declined to proceed with Gs application  
applying its standard policy to the companys request and treating it in the same way as any 
other customer. 
By the time Funding Circle reached its decision, the CBIL Scheme had closed  so G was 
unable to apply elsewhere. But I dont think that is down to any error on Funding Circles 
part. Ive not seen that it caused any unreasonable delay in processing Gs application and it 
wasnt required to notify applicants of its criteria in advance. It was an unfortunate 
consequence of the application being made shortly before the Schemes closure and 
Funding Circles legitimate decision to decline it. There is also no guarantee that G wouldve 
been successful in obtaining a CBIL, even if it had the opportunity to apply elsewhere.
Funding Circle couldve explained things better to G when advising of the reasons behind its 
decision. While not obliged to share these in great detail, it did more harm than good by 
telling Mr W the wrong thing rather than nothing at all  most notably suggesting that the 
application couldnt proceed because the Scheme had closed and subsequently failing to clearly explain the issue with Gs banking services provider. This led Mr W, understandably, 
to engage with Funding Circle about the issue due to concern as to how Gs application had 
been handled  taking him away from Gs day-to-day running, thereby causing it 
inconvenience. Its right that the company is compensated for this, and to that end I also 
think that a payment of £150 represents a fair resolution. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Funding Circle Ltd 
to pay G compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman