DRN-3966115
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader, trading as D. Hes unhappy with what Zurich Insurance PLC did after 
he made a claim on his Contractors Combined Insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2012 Mr H entered into a construction contract to build two properties. In February 2016 
he contacted his public liability insurer about damp in the basement of one of the properties. 
Investigations at that time suggested the cause was a leak from a water softener which had 
been installed by a different contractor. Mr H says he discussed matters with his broker in 
July 2017. And they contacted Zurichs underwriters and were advised any claim should be 
pursued against the manufacturer or installer of the water softener.
In January 2019 Mr H again contacted his public liability insurer because hed received a 
letter from solicitors acting for one of the properties. That alleged it was work hed carried out 
which led to water entering the basement. The public liability insurer said its policy didnt 
cover defective work or damage to contract works. Draft proceedings were issued against 
Mr H in December 2019. In March 2021 he notified Zurich of this claim via his broker. It said 
it wouldnt be covering this because, amongst other things, Mr H hadnt met the notification 
requirements in his policy. It thought its position had been prejudiced by this. 
Our investigator noted Zurich didnt have any record of contact from Mr Hs broker in 2017. 
And at the point Mr H told it about the claim in March 2021 a defence had been filed and a 
case management hearing was listed. She thought the claim had been notified late and 
Zurich had shown its position had been adversely affected by that. She thought it acted fairly 
in turning down the claim Mr H made. 
Mr Hs response primarily related to his disagreement with the outcome of his claim against 
his public liability insurer (which Ive addressed in a separate decision). He didnt make clear 
whether he accepted the outcome on this complaint. But I think its appropriate for me to 
reach a decision in order to bring finality to this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. This does include Contractors 
All Risks insurance which, subject to the terms and conditions of that section, covers loss or 
damage to contract works. 
Zurich accepted (in a response to Mr H in June 2021) that this section of the policy would 
attach to damage to the contract works hed carried out. However, its a condition of the 
policy that on the happening of any event which could give rise to a claim or on receiving 
verbal or written notice of any claim the Insured shall as soon as reasonably possible give 
notice to the Insurers. 
In this case Mr H believes he told Zurich about an event which could give rise to a claim via 
his broker in July 2017. Zurich says its underwriters have no record of this and has 
suggested that means if contact was made it didnt meet the low threshold for notification 
that would have been applied. 
I think its clear Mr H was in contact with his broker about this issue in 2017; theres email 
correspondence between them in relation to it. However, while the response from the broker 
does say I have discussed the details of this matter with your Contract Works underwriter it 
doesnt say who they actually spoke to. Nor does it make clear whether the information that 
was provided should reasonably have been regarded by Zurich as an event which could give 
rise to a claim. 
But I dont think thats the key issue here. The problem Mr H contacted his broker about in 
2017 was thought to be related to a leak from a water softener (which wasnt installed by Mr 
H). The claim made against him in January 2019 was different. While the underlying issue 
was about water in the basement the alleged cause was work Mr H had carried out on a 
water main and defective construction work at the property. I think thats something which 
should have been separately notified to Zurich. 
The policy terms also say notification needs to be provided on receiving verbal or written 
notice of any claim. In this case Mr H received a claim letter from solicitors in January 2019 
and draft proceedings were issued in December 2019. I think thats something which should 
in itself have been notified to Zurich. That didnt happen until Mr H made contact with it 
through his broker in March 2021.
The policy terms dont say notification needs to take place immediately but they do say it 
should be done as soon as reasonably possible. In this case there was a significant delay of 
around 26 months. So Ive considered what Mr H has said about the reasons for this. He 
says his broker had previously advised this policy wouldnt cover the claim. And he believed 
his public liability insurer was dealing with the matter. 
However, Mr H was aware from February 2019 his public liability insurer didnt believe the 
claim hed made to it was covered. And he also knew of the potential for his policy with 
Zurich to do so following the previous discussion between his broker and the underwriters. I 
appreciate the information he was given at that time suggested the claim he was then 
making wouldnt be covered. But, as Ive already found, that information related to a different 
situation in which other issues were raised. I dont think Mr H could have assumed the 
position would be the same in relation to the allegations made against him in January 2019. 
As a result I dont think the requirement to give notice as soon as reasonably possible has 
been met. Zurich says this is a condition precedent to cover meaning it doesnt need to show 
how non-compliance has adversely affected or prejudiced its position. However, the 
notification condition isnt described as a condition precedent (in contrast to other conditions 
in the policy which are). 
But I think Zurich has in any event shown non-compliance has prejudiced its position. By the 
time Mr H told it about the claim over two years had passed since it was first made. So 
Zurich had no opportunity to investigate and respond to the issues raised. And at the point it 
became aware of the claim Mr H had filed a defence to it and a case management hearing 
had been listed. 
Zurich has raised a number of concerns about the process followed by Mr H and the defence 
hed lodged which could potentially have been avoided if it had been involved at an earlier 
stage. So Im satisfied it has shown its position has been prejudiced by the late notification. 
And I think its fair of it to rely on this term to decline cover for the claim Mr H made. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman