DRN-2885128
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr P says Vanquis should not have allowed him to open a credit card account in 2017 as he 
was in financial difficulties. He says the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible and the 
account wasnt suitable for him.
Vanquis says the account was opened in December 2017 and Mr P told it he was in full time 
employment earning just under £20,000 a year. It says it carried out checks on the 
application and could see Mr P didnt have any adverse information on his credit file and 
debt of £800. Vanquis says the credit limit was modest at £250 and received information 
from a different Credit Reference Agency (CRA) after the account was opened that Mr Ps 
overall debt was about £13,000.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis carried out appropriate checks and that there wasnt any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ps credit file. The investigator didnt think Vanquis responsible 
for the later information about Mr Ps debt or that would have made a difference to the 
lending decision.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says he had far more debt at the time of lending than 
£800.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of that lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a 
loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Vanquiss checks to have been as 
detailed as for that type of lending.
I can see that Mr P applied for the Vanquis credit card account and declared an income of 
just under £20,000 a year. I can also see that Vanquis did carry out checks on the 
application and took into account the lack of any adverse information on Mr Ps credit file 
such as defaults or County Court Judgements. Im satisfied that Vanquis calculated Mr Ps 
debt at £800 and offered him what I think was a very modest credit limit of £250. So, I dont 
think Vanquiss lending decision was irresponsible or unaffordable and that it did carry out 
reasonable and proportionate credit checks.
I appreciate Mr Ps actual debt in December 2017 may have been significantly higher. But I 
dont think Vanquis could have known that and was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
information it received. In any event I dont think it would have been irresponsible to have 
given Mr P a credit limit of £250 even if he did have £13,000 worth of debt as there wasnt 
any adverse information recorded at that stage on his credit file.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ps credit file and having done so Im satisfied that Mr Ps 
financial difficulties took place some time after Vanquiss lending in December 2017.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ps 
credit card account application and that its lending was on the face of it affordable and not 
irresponsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman