DRN-3672292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI in 1993 at the same time as arranging the mortgage. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was taken out just to cover Mr R.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly Id like to clear up a mis-understanding about a letter that HSBC sent Mr and Mrs R in 
September 2021. It seems clear from the letter that Mr and Mrs R had previously made an 
information request to HSBC to enquire about any PPI polices they may have had. The letter 
of September 2021 was apologising for missing out details of the mortgage PPI that the 
couple had when it originally responded to their information request. It explained that it was 
missed out because, when it was checking, it hadnt taken the step of contacting the 
adminstrators of its mortgage PPI policies as it should have done. Mr and Mrs R have 
interpreted this as HSBC suggesting that they should contact the policy administrators, but 
that is not the case. HSBC has in no way suggested that it was not the seller of the 
mortgage PPI or that Mr and Mrs R should address their complaint direct to the policy 
administrators.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any documents available from the time of the sale, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it took place. To be clear, banks are not required to keep 
records indefinitely. HSBC has however retained some basic computerised information, such 
as the start and end dates of the mortgage and policy, that it was Mr R who was covered 
and what the policy benefit and costs were.
Mr and Mrs R say they were led to believe that agreeing to the PPI would have a positive 
influence on their mortgage application. 
From what we know of HSBCs sales process at that time, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude 
that something different happened in this case.
I agree with our adjudicator when shes said that its likely that the PPI was presented in a 
positive light and that they might have been encouraged to take it. But that is not the same 
as HSBC pressuring them to buy it. Its possible that the adviser told Mr and Mrs R that it 
was a good idea for them to buy the PPI, rather than being something they had to take out. 
This is a subtle difference which its possible Mr and Mrs R have misremembered. 
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs R have provided their genuine recollection of events. 
However, as the sale was in 1993, it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded 
somewhat. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs R have said. However, on 
balance, Im unable to conclude that they werent give a real choice about buying the policy. 
I find it just as likely that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they 
no longer remember doing so.
As HSBC advised Mr and Mrs R to buy the policy, it needed to ensure that it met their 
needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, the policy was 
suitable for them.
Mr R says he would have received sick pay from his employer. However, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr R would have 
received full pay for. Mr and Mrs R say they had some savings. But having the policy would 
have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to pay for other outgoings at what 
would have been a difficult time. Overall, I consider that they had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it.
HSBC also needed to provide Mr and Mrs R with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the PPI was right for them. Its possible that HSBC 
didnt provide as much information as it should have, particularly about the things that the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr R wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, he didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded under the policy. So 
Mr and Mrs R are no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman