DRN-3996910
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc did not apply an overpayment to his account and he 
complains of service failings related to his loan.
What happened
Mr K had a personal loan with Santander. He said that on 19 February 2022, he made an 
overpayment of £300, so he expected his outstanding balance to reduce to £570.13. He 
says when he made a £250 payment on 8 March 2022, he expected the outstanding balance 
to be £570.13 - £250 = £320.13. He says Santander gave him the wrong balance and then 
they suggested they use the overpayment in a different way. Mr K says he is not responsible 
for their mistake, and he didnt allow them to use the overpayment in a different way. Mr K 
says Santander said his balance was £531.38 instead of £320.13. He made a complaint to 
Santander. He wanted the difference of £211.25 as compensation.
Santander partially upheld Mr Ks complaint. They said although the balance that he saw on 
11 March 2022 showed £320.13 outstanding, on all of their systems, they couldnt see this
balance ever being connected to his loan and they could only think its been a glitch on the 
application (app), as his current balance is correct which was £531.38. Santander said as a 
gesture of goodwill, they would apply half the difference of the remaining balance which was 
£105.63. Mr K brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said the payments in question had 
been applied to the loan account and the balance was correct. Mr K asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In summary, he said 
when he paid £300 on 21 February 2022, his balance was £870.13 showing on his account 
and from the branch. He questioned why Santander sent him a letter on 1 March 2022 in 
which they asked him to allow them to use his £300 overpayment in a different way. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Mr K has made a number of points to this service and Santander and Ive considered and 
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Mr K has provided our service with a receipt dated 8 March 2022. Here, this receipt shows 
two different sets of handwriting. Mr K has said the branch staff wrote the balance on the 
receipt for him. So it looks like he was told on 8 March 2022 (and not on 1 March when he 
made the previous £300 overpayment or in February when he made the other £300 
overpayment), that his outstanding balance was £870.13 and with the £250 overpayment he 
was making that day it would reduce the outstanding balance to £620.13. 
So Im satisfied that Santander branch staff on the balance of probabilities told Mr K this 
information. When Ive cross-referenced this to the system running outstanding balance 
Santander have provided me, the outstanding balance prior to the £250 overpayment is 
different  as it shows that after the two overpayments of £300 was made to his loan 
balance, the outstanding balance was actually lower than what the branch told him  the 
systems showed he owed £858.69.
I asked Santander why the two figures would be different. They explained to me that there is 
the current outstanding balance and a settlement figure and these two would be different as 
a settlement figure would include the interest to be charged which accumulates each day 
and is usually paid when the monthly payment falls due. So Im satisfied that the branch staff 
likely gave Mr K a settlement figure on 8 March 2022, to show what he would need to pay to 
settle his loan account. After the £300 was paid twice and the £250 was paid, Santanders 
systems show an outstanding (not settlement) balance of £608.69. When Mr K paid his 
normal monthly direct debit payment, the statement shows £77.31 of the payment reduced 
the capital (with the remainder being interest) and £531.38 was the new outstanding balance 
after his March direct debit payment was credited to the account. 
Mr K may think that he owed less than what Santander are telling him he owed, based on 
what he says about the local branch telling him what his balance was and there being a 
possible glitch in the app showing his balance. So Ive had a look at the running outstanding 
balance of his account since it has been opened. And this shows that the three 
overpayments in early 2022 have been applied to his loan account. Mr K has provided us 
with three receipts  one dated 21 February  but this is a transfer of £300 from his savings 
account to his current account (not to his loan account), one dated 1 March 2022 for £300 
and one dated 8 March 2022.
Part of the issue appears that the date of the overpayments when Mr K has made them do 
not appear on his loan account straight away. This is not unusual in the same way a 
payment to a credit card may take several days before it shows on the account. Here, from 
the evidence Ive seen, it appears Mr K made an overpayment on 18 February  as his 
current account statement shows a £300 transfer, a £300 overpayment on 1 March as 
shown by his branch receipt and cash of £250 paid on 8 March as confirmed by his receipt. 
But on his movements, these are shown as payments crediting to his loan on 1 March, 11 
March and 11 March. It is not clear why payments made on 1 and 8 March have took a 
different number of days to credit his account. But Ive seen letters sent to Mr K to confirm 
these payments have been made. A letter sent to him dated 1 March says Thank you for 
your partial repayment of £300.00, which has been credited to your loan account on 19-02-
2022. A letter sent to him dated 11 March says Thank you for your partial repayment of 
£300.00, which has been credited to your loan account on 19-02-2022 and a letter sent to 
him also on 11 March 2022 says Thank you for your partial repayment of £250.00, which 
has been credited to your loan account on 09-03-2022. 
But because of the time the payments took to credit Mr Ks account, this may be a reason 
why the balance is displayed differently on an app or when he asked Santander staff to give 
him the outstanding balance on his loan. But while Im satisfied that Santander have applied 
the overpayments to his account. I can also see on a number of occasions where they have 
sent Mr K incorrect information about his loan. And Ill explain why. 
I previously highlighted the letters that Santander had sent Mr K about his overpayments. 
But two of these letters dated 1 and 11 March show the different £300 payments had been 
credited to his account on 19 February 2022. But Mr K did not make two overpayments on 
this date. It appears that one overpayment of £300 was made on 18 February. As this could 
have been made after a cut off time to credit his loan, it would not be unusual for the 
transaction to show as the following day, but it is not clear as to why both of the £300 
overpayments would have been credited to his loan account on 19 February when one was 
made on 1 March. Its possible that an error was made which backdated one of the overpayments incorrectly to 
19 February 2022  although this would be in Mr Ks favour as he would be charged less 
interest than if it was applied to his loan on 1 March 2022. 
In addition there was other correspondence sent to Mr K from Santander which does not 
reflect the activity on the account or what some of Santanders system screenshots show 
me. One of these is the statement which was sent to Mr K which shows his loan account 
summary, including transactions between 19 October 2020  18 October 2021. This shows 
the total loan outstanding as £1,826.64 and if the loan was to be settled on 20 October 2021 
(for illustration purposes) the payment needed would be £1,857.90, but his movements show 
that his balance after his September 2021 payment was made, was £1,799.73. So it is not 
clear how these figures were different. While the settlement figure would understandably be 
higher based on the reasoning I gave earlier, its not clear why the statement balance sent to 
Mr K was higher than the balance on his movements. 
But its the loan overpayment statement which Santander sent Mr K dated 4 November 
2022, which would be the most distressing for Mr K to receive. I say this because it covers 
overpayments from 19 October 2021  1 November 2022. But it only shows one 
overpayment of £300 instead of two overpayments of £300. As Mr K believes that Santander 
only credited one overpayment of £300 then what they sent Mr K would appear to support 
what he believes to have happened. While I have seen the movements system to evidence 
all of the overpayments had been credited to his account, Mr K would not have access to 
Santanders direct systems to show all three overpayments were made, so this would have 
been distressing for him to receive incomplete information here. 
So it does appear that Mr K may have experienced more than one technical issue with his 
loan. Santander have already paid Mr K £105.63 for what he said about the technical issue 
with the app. But Im not persuaded this reflects the impact that all of the technical issues 
would have had on Mr K. Ive already documented the impact that the overpayment 
statement not showing all of the overpayments on there would have on Mr K and him being 
told incorrect balances at times. 
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to increase the amount of 
compensation by another £100 to recognise the impact of all of the technical errors that 
happened here, to recognise the distress this would have caused Mr K, which led him to 
believe all of his overpayments werent credited to his loan. As the payments were made 
February/March and then to receive incorrect document in November, several months later, 
this would have been very distressing for Mr K. So it follows I intend to ask Santander to put 
things right for Mr K.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Santander accepted the provisional decision but they wanted to provide comments 
to some of my provisional decision, which they thought might add value to my final decision. 
In summary, they explained the document they issued on 21 October 2021, that the figure of 
£1,799.73 was the loan balance of £1,828.42 prior to the interest due of £28.69 being 
applied to the account.
Santander acknowledged the confusion with the running balance figure of £1,799.93, quoted 
in my provisional decision as outstanding, after the payment made in September 2021 was 
taken, which can be seen on the account movements. They also acknowledged that the 
overpayment statement might be confusing and they can see why Mr K might have been 
under the impression that one of them was not applied to the account, but this was not the 
case. Mr K responded to the provisional decision and he made a number of points. In summary, he 
said that Santander sent him two letters which were dated 1 March 2022 where one letter 
was signed and another one was not signed by a senior staff member of Santander. He said 
Santander intentionally caused him great harm and £100 cant repair the harm caused. He 
said they asked him to use his £300 in their different way and they are trading with his 
money without his permission and they must pay him big money. 
Mr K also asked which figure created and brought to evidence the glitch of £870.13 before 
his overpayment of £300 and how they credited £300 on his loan account only after the 
discovery and correction of the glitch. He also said that in the beginning of this issue he had 
a telephone conversation with Santander, but he accused them of lying as he said the 
branch staff has no management on the loan account and only senior Santander staff have 
the management role on every individual loan account. He said if this was the case he asked 
them to send the £300 back to him, but they didnt refund the £300 to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about the two letters that were sent to him with one 
being signed and one not being signed. This is because these letters were not the same, so 
it would appear Santander may have different templates to send on different occasions. I say 
this because the top of the signed letter says Loan Bespoke Communication and one says 
Loan: Capital Repayment. But Im satisfied that both letters are clear he paid £300. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said about Santander are trading with his money without his 
permission when they asked to use his money in a different way, but the letter they sent him 
on 1 March 2021 does not say this. It says if you are happy with what we have done then 
you do not need to do anything. If you would like us to use the overpayment in a different 
way then please call us in the next 14 days. Santander have confirmed that what they mean 
here is that they used the £300 to reduce the loan term. But they could have  on Mr Ks 
request, used the overpayment to reduce the monthly repayment. As Ive seen no evidence 
of Mr K calling them to change how they use his overpayment, then it was used to reduce Mr 
Ks loan.
Ive considered what Mr K has asked regarding which figure created and brought to 
evidence the glitch of £870.13 before his overpayment of £300. But Santander have 
indicated that there was no glitch in the account running balance of his account. They have 
said there could have been a glitch with how the app displayed the figures to Mr K and this is 
why they originally partially upheld his complaint as they took his word for this. Im not 
persuaded that the £300 on his loan account was only credited after the discovery of the 
glitch either. I say this as the evidence shows that the £300 was credited to the loan prior to 
Mr K making a complaint about the figures he saw and Santander replying to the complaint 
on 26 April 2022.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about the branch staff having no management role on 
his loan. But while the branch staff dont manage his loan themselves as such, Im satisfied 
that they made the payment of £300 to his loan and Santander sent him acknowledgement 
in the post that they received the £300 and it was credited to his account. I know Mr K 
received this as he has commented on the wording they used on this letter. So I cant say 
anything untoward has happened here. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said about £100 cant repair the harm Santander caused him 
and they must pay him big. But it may help if I explain to Mr K that compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted 
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and 
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is 
often modest and within our established guidelines. Our awards are not designed to punish a 
business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the 
future. That is the role of the regulator.
In summary, Mr Ks response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr K an extra £100 for distress. Im still satisfied this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Santander UK Plc should pay Mr K an extra £100 for distress
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman