DRN-3767320
The complaint
The estate of Mr J has complained that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) failed to settle the 
proceeds for the estate of Mr Js annuity contract into Trust as he directed, which has led to 
an inheritance tax liability. The estate for Mr J is also unhappy with contradicting statements 
they received from Phoenix regarding the discretion it had in relation to paying the death 
benefits.
What happened
Mr J held two Retirement Annuity Contracts (RAC) with Phoenix. 
In 2012 Mr J sent Phoenix a letter requesting his policies benefits be placed into a Wills trust 
hed created. 
Phoenix acknowledged receipt of his request and replied with a letter dated 22 March 2012. 
In this letter it advised it was unable to add an expression of wish as it didnt have discretion 
regarding the payment of how death benefits were made. It further advised that it was 
possible to place the policy in trust, but Mr J would have to seek legal advice to facilitate this.
Phoenix states it never received a response to this letter and confirmation from Mr J that he 
had met the requirements it had outlined for the policy to be placed in trust. 
Mr J sadly passed away on 17 September 2016. 
Mr Js estate submitted a death benefit claim under the policies and Phoenix settled the 
policies with values of around £19,000 and around £68,000 respectively.
The funds were paid to his wifes bank account in her capacity as executor for the estate. 
Mrs J then also sadly passed away on 1 August 2019.
The executors for both Mr and Mrs Js estates raised a complaint with Phoenix because 
while they were in process of settling Mrs Js estate an inheritance tax liability arose due to 
the funds that were paid out from Mr Js policies with Phoenix. 
The executors have said that Phoenix shouldnt have paid the funds directly to Mrs J as Mr J 
had created a discretionary Wills Trust which it had been notified about previously. 
Phoenix has said that as these policies werent specifically listed in the Will trust and as it 
didnt have discretion under the scheme rules regarding the payment of death benefits, it 
couldnt pay the proceeds into the trust. 
The executors were unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and agreed that Phoenix had no obligation 
to pay the policy proceeds into the trusts as the requirements to cede the policy to the trust 
were not met before Mr J passed away.
The executors disagreed with the investigators outcome.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to not uphold the complaint.
The main issue for me to consider is whether Phoenix failed to follow the instruction it 
received from Mr J to place the death benefits for his policies into trust.
In 2012 when Mr J contacted Phoenix regarding his desire to place the policies into trust, it 
did explain the nature of the RAC meant that it had no discretion in terms of how the benefits 
under the policies would be paid. Im satisfied this letter was sufficiently clear and explained 
what Mr J would have to do if he wanted to ensure the benefits were paid to a trust. 
The policies in question are S.266 plans and these kinds of policies mean that the provider 
doesnt have discretion regarding how death benefits are paid. So without the specific 
requirements being met allowing the policy to be placed in the trust, it seems all Phoenix 
could do was pay the proceeds from the policies death benefits to Mrs J in her capacity as 
executor for Mr Js estate.
The executors for Mr Js estate have stated that they received conflicting information from 
Phoenix regarding its discretion in how payments for death benefit claims are made and this 
led them to doubt how the funds should have been paid.
Phoenixs letter dated 13 January 2021 to the solicitors for the estate did incorrectly state it 
had discretion regarding how claims are paid. But it later clarified in a letter on 15 May 2021 
that this was an error. It confirmed it did not have discretion regarding the payment as set 
out in the policys terms and conditions. Phoenix provided a copy of these and apologised for 
the confusion. It also offered £100 to acknowledge the impact of this error and after the 
complaint was referred to our service in an attempt to resolve the matter Phoenix offered a 
further £150. In my view whilst its disappointing when a business makes a mistake this does 
sometimes happen. In this situation I would expect a business making the error to 
acknowledge this and rectify the mistake. I would also look for a business to make an offer of 
compensation in recognition of the error. And in the circumstances of this case, I am 
satisfied that Phoenix did this here and I am satisfied with the actions it has taken.
Its worth the estate noting that while this service understands that a business' mistake can 
affect its customers practically or emotionally which we can award money for, we dont 
award compensation to estates because an estate cant experience feelings of distress or 
inconvenience  even though I can appreciate the executors personally have felt this. But as 
they are representing the estate they cannot be compensated personally.
I can consider if the errors had an impact on the estate itself  for example if there were 
delays caused because of the error or the error prevented the executors from fulfilling their 
duties. But I havent seen this applies in this instance and while Im pleased that Phoenix 
have offered something to acknowledge it made an error, Im unable to comment on or 
change this amount.
So for the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be directing 
Phoenix to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman