DRN-2540590
The complaint
Ms Ws complaint is that Covea Insurance plc would only refund her the premiums shed 
paid under her bill protection policy, if the policy were cancelled.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Covea took over the underwriting of the policy in 2018. Ive therefore only considered what 
happened from that date. 
Covea accepts that Ms W couldnt claim unemployment benefit under the policy from the 
date it took over the policy because she was in temporary employment. Covea has 
confirmed it wont split the policy and only cancel the unemployment cover. 
As Covea hasnt run the risk of paying an unemployment claim since it took over the policy, 
the usual approach of this service is to require an insurer to return the premiums paid for the 
relevant period. Covea has offered to refund the premiums for the whole policy, because it 
doesnt think the unemployment benefit and disability benefit can be split. Though that would 
mean the policy would need to be cancelled. 
Ideally, Covea would just refund the premiums paid for the unemployment cover, and then 
cancel that cover so that the disability cover can continue. However, if it cant split the 
unemployment and disability cover, then its reasonable for it to return all the premiums paid 
for the policy, and for the policy to then end.  
Covea didnt do anything wrong by continuing to collect the premiums until it found out that 
Ms W wasnt eligible to make an unemployment claim. In such cases as this, this service 
would only expect an insurer to add interest to the refunded premiums from the date it learnt 
that the insured couldnt make a claim, rather than pay interest from the date each premium 
was paid. 
Our investigator thought Covea only became aware in August 2020 that Ms W was ineligible 
to make an unemployment claim. However, I see that in response to our investigator, Covea 
pointed out that it was aware of this in September 2018 (as Ms W had made an 
unemployment claim at that time, which was turned down). It would therefore be appropriate 
for interest to be paid from that date instead. 
Covea says that Ms Ws employment status wouldnt have affected her ability to claim 
disability cover. However, the only reason it would be appropriate for Covea to refund the 
premiums in full is if Covea wont split the policy and continue to offer disability cover on its 
own. If it is willing to split the cover, then it would only need to refund the proportion of the 
premium that has been paid for unemployment cover, and therefore pay interest on that. 
As Ms W may be left with no disability cover if she accepts this decision (if Covea cant 
separate the unemployment and disability benefit), she may want to consult with a financial 
adviser before accepting it.
For these reasons, I partly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint about Covea Insurance plc. I require it 
to refund the premiums Ms W has paid for unemployment cover since it took over the policy. 
It can then remove the unemployment cover from the policy. 
However, if Covea cant separate the unemployment and disability cover, then it should 
refund the premiums paid for the policy in full, and cancel the policy. 
Covea should then pay interest on the refunded premiums at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from September 2018 to the date of settlement*.
* If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman