DRN-3211950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that the lifetime mortgage they took out with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited was mis-sold.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr B1 who is one of Mr and Mrs Bs sons, 
so any reference to Mr and Mrs B should be taken to mean Mr B1 (acting as their 
representative) where appropriate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva to enquire about an equity release mortgage following adverts 
theyd seen on the television.
They met with the adviser twice and, after discussing their wishes and needs, Aviva issued a 
suitability report in September 2003, summarising what had been discussed and the adviser 
gave Mr and Mrs B an illustration of the product. Aviva recommended a lifetime mortgage of 
£19,000.
A valuation of the property was undertaken, and following that a formal mortgage offer was 
issued.
One of Avivas requirements was that Mr and Mrs B needed to have independent legal 
advice before it would agree to complete the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B were given advice by 
an independent firm of solicitors, and the mortgage completed in November 2003. In 
common with this type of loan, no repayments are due; instead interest rolls up into the debt, 
which is repayable either when the last borrower dies or goes into long-term care.
Avivas notes indicate Mr B phoned in September 2008 to request a further advance, but as 
the property value wasnt high enough no further funds were available at that time. The 
notes show Mr B called again in November 2018 as he was confused by the early 
repayment charge that was showing in the annual statement.
The next call showing in the notes was in November 2020 when the notes indicate Mr B 
called to ask how the debt was so high, and said it was the worst thing he had ever done. 
There was a further call a few days later and the notes indicate Mr B said he understands it 
all, but just wished hed never taken it out.
Mr B1 then raised a complaint with Aviva the following year. Aviva didnt uphold the 
complaint, and so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied the lifetime mortgage hadnt been mis-sold as it met Mr and Mrs Bs 
documented needs at that time, the paperwork was clear and Mr and Mrs B had received 
independent legal advice.
Mr B1 didnt agree with the investigators findings. Because the matter is unresolved, it falls 
to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority and the Equity Release Council (formerly the Safe Home 
Income Plan  or SHIP) are aware that there is potential, years down the line, for adult 
children to find out their parents had taken out an equity release mortgage without consulting 
them first. These scenarios  and the fact that some equity release mortgages are sold to 
elderly customers  is why this type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to a 
robust and rigorous sales process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a 
financial adviser, as well as from an independent solicitor.
Mr and Mrs B were given independent legal advice from a solicitor of their choice. The 
solicitor was acting for Mr and Mrs B and the advice should have been given with their best 
interests at heart. If Mr and Mrs B feel that wasnt the case then theyd need to raise that 
with their solicitor directly, Aviva isnt responsible for that.
The documents from 2003 show that Mr and Mrs B went through a very detailed 
questionnaire with Avivas adviser. Mr and Mrs B didnt want to have a family member 
present  which was their right. There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mr and Mrs 
B were suffering from any cognitive impairment which prevented them from understanding 
what they were doing, or that they shouldnt have been allowed to make their own decisions 
about their own property.
The information-gathering exercise identified various specific financial objectives - to replace 
their car and use the balance to pay for holidays over the next five years. By proceeding with 
the application, Mr and Mrs B signed to confirm the information given about their personal 
circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. Whilst Mr B1 says 
that Mr and Mrs B still have the money in their savings account as they didnt spend it, Aviva 
had no regulatory responsibility to check that they spent the money on what theyd said they 
would.
Aviva recorded Mr and Mrs Bs net monthly income as £1,200. That was Mr Bs employed 
income, with him due to retire in a few years and their projected income would drop at that 
time. Mr and Mrs Bs monthly outgoings were noted on the fact find to be £1,191 a month, 
giving them a monthly surplus of £9.
The information captured also indicated that Mr and Mrs B had £1,000 in savings so its 
reasonable to infer from this that Mr and Mrs B would have need of some form of borrowing 
if they were to be able to realise their stated objectives. So Ive next considered whether 
something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been a better option.
The documentation from the time shows that other ways of raising the money were 
discussed. It was recorded:
You did not wish to consider a mortgage elsewhere as an alternative as you did not 
wish to use up any more of your disposable income.
We have considered alternatives to meet your needs, such as utilising your existing 
savings and/or investments or moving to a smaller property, but these were 
discounted because your savings are insufficent for the purposes required and you 
do not wish to move.Having considered everything, Im satisfied that an equity release was probably the only 
viable option for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances recorded at the time. The mortgage 
Aviva recommended and then provided for Mr and Mrs B raised the money theyd asked for. 
The fact Mr and Mrs B wanted to spend some money on a car and some holidays is not at 
all inappropriate and is quite a common thing we see with equity release mortgages. Many 
equity release customers are retired (or will soon be retired) so they have more time 
available and wish to spend that time having holidays and undertaking other general leisure 
activities. It wasnt Avivas role to tell Mr and Mrs B how to spend the money  or to check 
that theyd spent the money as they said they intended to - as it was Mr and Mrs Bs house 
and their equity to use as they wished.
That brings me to the interest rate. Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity 
release mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of 
this would have been demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material.
The rate charged is 7.29% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the 
offer. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mr and Mrs B studied the offer, or 
how much of the information it contained they assimilated; but the information was set out in 
a manner prescribed by the Financial Conduct Authoritys predecessor as regulator, the 
Financial Services Authority.
The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been fairly normal on equity release 
mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the 
interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when 
deciding how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how 
their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
illustration, as it was in this case.
Im satisfied the paperwork explained how the mortgage works, all the relevant conditions 
that apply and the implications for Mr and Mrs B of entering into this transaction. The 
suitability report gives some detail about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, wishes and needs. I 
am also satisfied that it reflects what was recorded at the time by Aviva, based on the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs B.
Mr B1 said the illustration only shows the interest roll-up for 20 years, whereas the early 
repayment charge runs for 33 years. Mr B1 said:
 the figures provided should have gone up to at least the 33 years as I have mocked 
up in the below. This would have provided a comprehensive view of potential scenarios 
my parents may have faced. As figures were provided only up to 20 years and with my 
parents lack of financial awareness they were not fully aware of the potential interest that 
could be payable and also the potential value of their house in the future and the 
combination of the two beyond the 20-year window. I have shared the figures for 20+ 
years with my parents and they are shocked at the figures and would have made a 
different decision and not taken out the product if they have been made aware of these 
figures at the time.
But that doesnt fit with what happened. Mr B first told Aviva he regretted taking out the 
lifetime mortgage and he couldnt understand how the debt had grown so much in November 
2020, based on the annual statement he received at that time. That was only 17 years after 
the mortgage had been taken out and the balance on that statement was around £62,800. 
The illustration that was issued to Mr and Mrs B at the time of the sale, and which they used 
to make a decision about taking out the mortgage, showed figures up until 20 years with a predicted balance at that point of around £77,600  nearly £15,000 more than the balance 
Mr B complained about in 2020. 
The balance at the five and ten year points both matched that set out on the illustration, so 
Im satisfied the lifetime mortgage ran exactly as had been illustrated  and Mr and Mrs B 
agreed to  in 2003. Having considered everything I dont think it would have made a 
difference to Mr and Mrs Bs decision to take out the lifetime mortgage had the illustration 
shown the interest roll-up over a longer period (and in any event, Aviva did nothing wrong by 
not doing so as the illustration was in line with the guidance at the time).
Mr and Mrs B might now regret taking out the lifetime mortgage but that doesnt mean it was 
mis-sold to them in 2003. Mr and Mrs B approached Aviva about equity releases, this wasnt 
a cold contact from Aviva to customers that had no interest in the product. They had two 
meetings with the adviser and were issued with various documents at the time which 
explained the contract they were entering into, and how the interest would roll-up. Mr and 
Mrs B received independent legal advice, and could have withdrawn from the transaction at 
any time. Aviva was entitled to rely on the information Mr and Mrs B gave, and that showed 
that they had a need to borrow money as they didnt have sufficient savings or other means 
to meet their wants and needs, and they didnt have the disposable income to make monthly 
debt repayments.  The reasons Mr and Mrs B gave Aviva for wanting the money were 
entirely plausible, and it wasnt Avivas job to check up on Mr and Mrs B or police their 
spending to make sure theyd used the funds as they said they were going to.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, from the evidence at the point of sale, that the 
advice and recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. This 
means that I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2022.. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman