DRN-4038529
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Prepaid Financial Services Limited 
(PFSL) surrounding an account balance discrepancy.
What happened
Mr S received a statement from PFSL which covered the period 1 January 2022 to 1 
September 2022, and which showed total money coming into the account during that period 
of £665.34 and total money going out of £631.89. The difference between these amounts is 
£33.45, which Mr S believed should be the balance of his account. However, the balance of 
the account shown by PFSL was only £3.70. Mr S complained to Mr S about this but 
received no response. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that PFSL had confirmed that 
they had no money on hold for Mr S and hadnt been able to explain why the apparent 
discrepancy had arisen. 
As such, they felt it was reasonable that the balance of the account should be the difference 
between the money in and the money out and so they recommended that this complaint be 
upheld and that PFSL should credit Mr Ss account with the appropriate amount and make a 
payment of £50 to him as compensation for the trouble and upset this matter had caused. 
PFSL didnt respond to the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and Mr S 
felt that a higher amount of compensation was merited. So, the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the PFSL statement that Mr S has provided to this service that there was no 
balance present in the account at the beginning of the statement period. As such, it stands to 
reason that the balance of the account should be the difference between the money received 
into the account and the money thats left the account during the statement period.
Confusingly however, when I add and subtract the various amounts that came into and left 
the account as given on the account statement, a figure arises that is between the £3.70 that 
PFSL declare as the balance and the £33.45 that is the difference between the given money 
in and money out totals.
Additionally, it also seems from the PFSL statement that transaction amounts arent 
accurately reflected in the rolling account balance. For instance, on 30 July 2022, with the 
balance of the account at £224.21, a transaction of £6.00 leaving the account reduces the 
account balance to £212.71  a reduction of £11.50.
It's unclear why this would be the case, and PFSL havent provided any explanation about 
the account balance despite being asked on numerous occasions to do so by both Mr S and 
this service. 
Given this lack of explanation, I feel its only reasonable to conclude that PFSL have most 
likely made an error here. And so, I feel its fair that PFSL should reimburse Mr S the amount 
that would be most beneficial for him. This is the difference between the £33.45 which is the 
difference between the money in and money out amounts given on the statement and the 
£3.70 balance given on that statement by PFSL. This amounts to £29.75.
It's my understanding that Mr S has now closed his PFSL account, and so PFSL must pay 
this £29.75 to Mr S to an account of his choosing. 
Finally, PFSL must also make a further payment of £50 to Mr S, which Im satisfied provides 
fair compensation for the upset and inconvenience hes incurred. 
Im aware that Mr S feels that a higher amount of compensation should be awarded for his 
trouble here. But it seems to me that some of Mr Ss frustration stems from how PFSL have 
handled his complaint about this matter. And it must be noted that it isnt within the remit of 
this service to consider a complaint about how a business has handled a complaint  even 
when that handled complaint is about a financial matter. And regarding the trouble and upset 
Mr S has experienced that I can consider, I feel that £50 is a fair compensation amount.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr S wanted, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
PFSL must make a payment of £79.75  the sum of £29.75 and £50.00  to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Prepaid Financial Services Limited 
on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman