DRN-1631382
 
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy as Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) have declined her 
claim for a lost mobile phone under her insurance policy.
References to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
On 18 September 2019, Ms S took out a tech pack which included mobile phone insurance. 
Assurant are the underwriters of the policy.
On 22 September 2019, Ms S contacted Assurant to register a claim. She says that a few 
days after she took out the policy, she had her phone with her when going to a supermarket 
but mis-placed it and hasnt seen it since.
Assurant asked Ms S for some more details about the phone to show that it was in her 
possession at the time of taking out the policy and afterwards. They asked for proof of 
purchase and that shed used the phone after taking out the policy but before reporting it 
lost. 
Assurant werent satisfied with the proof of usage and said there was no supporting 
evidence that Ms S had used the phone after 17 September 2019. It had contacted the 
mobile network provider and it confirmed that the phone was last used with a sim card on 17 
September 2019. As this is prior to the policy being taken out, they declined the claim on the 
grounds that she couldnt demonstrate that she had the phone and, therefore, an insurable 
interest when she took out the policy. 
Ms S explained that, up until 17 September 2019, shed been using her phone with a sim 
card but, after 17 September, shed been using it on Wi-fi only without a sim card to use 
apps and make calls. Ms S was unhappy with her claim being declined as she felt that 
Assurant were accusing her of lying and made a complaint to Assurant. Assurant referred to 
the policy terms and conditions which stated:
To be covered under this insurance policy your device must be in full working order, with 
any SIM enabled devices able to connect to the network. You cannot make a claim on a 
device which has already been damaged, lost or stolen prior to you adding Tech Pack to 
your qualifying account.
Ms S has said she didnt use a sim card in the phone after 17 September. She also said that 
her mobile network provider had provided incorrect information and she was suffering great 
stress in her personal life. Assurant werent satisfied with the evidence of usage and didnt 
uphold her complaint as they said it had been fairly declined in line with the policy terms. 
Ms S remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. Shes said that some 
members of her family with the same policy have successfully claimed after only providing 
proof of purchase. Our investigator looked into Ms Ss complaint and shared an example of how she may be 
able to obtain additional further usage evidence through apps she may have used over Wi-fi. 
However, having reviewed the complaint, our investigator didnt uphold it. She felt that 
Assurant had acted in line with policy terms and fairly and reasonably declined this claim. 
Another investigator also looked at Ms Ss complaint and suggested that she look into what 
devices were connected to her home Wi-Fi around the time the policy was taken out. Ms S 
provided screen shots but they showed what devices were currently connected, not 
September 2019. 
Ms S didnt accept our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
A number of issues have been raised, but my decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms S that I think the investigators have reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. I also think theyve explained matters 
clearly and thoroughly so theres little I feel I can add to what has already been said. I would 
just explain the following.
Before I do this, I think its important to mention that the test I must apply here is whether I 
think Assurant has treated Ms S fairly in declining her claim. Its not to decide what actually 
happened to her phone.
Although Ms S has referred to family who have the same insurance policy and have 
successfully claimed, our service considers each complaint on its own merits. In this case, 
Ive had to decide if Assurant have properly considered and then fairly declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms.
As there was a relatively short period of time  a few days - between Ms S taking out this 
policy and losing her phone, I dont find it unreasonable or unusual that Assurant would ask 
for proof of usage in addition to proof of purchase. The policy terms state: 
We may ask for additional information and documentation in order to assess your claim.This 
could include documentation to show when the device was last used.
The usage information from Ms Ss mobile network provider shows that the phone was 
purchased in July 2018 and last connected to a mobile network on 17 September 2019. I 
find that Assurant didnt act unreasonably in relying on this information as its widely used 
when considering mobile phone insurance claims and it was information that Ms S had 
provided them with.Ms S has explained that this is because she removed her sim card from the phone on 17 
September and only used it on Wi-Fi after this date until it became lost a few days later. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that the phone was connected to Wi-fi after 17 
September 2019 or which supports this version of events. 
Ms S provided further evidence to our service that she says shows shed used the phone 
around and after taking the policy out in the form of log in data for an app. But this data 
doesnt show that she used the phone after taking the policy out. I say this because the data 
for app A shows that on 17 September 2019 a log in was made, not on the lost phone but an 
older model of phone. So I dont agree this supports what Ms S has said either. 
Taking everything into account, I think Assurants concerns were legitimate. Having looked 
into the claim carefully and taken into account all the information, I think it was reasonable 
for Assurant to say it wasnt satisfied the phone had been used by Ms S after she took out 
the policy and decline Ms S claim. The evidence Ive seen doesnt support her version of 
events and I havent heard any explanation about how this couldve happened.
So, I think that Assurant have fairly and reasonably declined this claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman