DRN-2716848
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the settlement shes been offered by St Andrews Insurance Plc for 
her home insurance claim for damage caused by a flood. 
What happened
Mrs B made a claim under her St Andrews home insurance policy in October 2019 after a 
flood caused damage to her property. Mrs B told St Andrews that a side annex (to the front) 
and the conservatory (to the back) of her house had been damaged when a drain at the front 
of the house became blocked. She said the water company had attended to free the 
blockage and had accepted it was responsible for what had happened. Mrs B told 
St Andrews that the floorboards in the annex had collapsed and the laminate flooring in the 
annex had been damaged along with the tiled floor in the conservatory. Mrs B said two large 
sofas and her husbands tools were also damaged and that the affected rooms were at one 
point under 2-3 inches of water. 
St Andrews appointed a personal claim consultant (PCC) to the claim and he visited the 
property three days later. He reported that the flood water had got under the suspended 
flooring in the annex and its porch, under the tiled floor in the conservatory and in a 
cupboard. Mrs B told the PCC that the damage had been going on for a year and the PCC 
noted that the rooms smelt badly of damp. 
St Andrews then appointed a contractor to inspect the conservatory, annex and cupboard. It 
visited the property four days after the PCC along with a technician from a restoration 
contractor. The restoration contractor reported to St Andrews that not all the damage it saw 
seemed consistent with the flood from the external drain. It noted that in the front access to 
the annex there were leaking waste pipes with visible wet patches below. It thought Mrs B 
mustve been aware of the leaks because shed tied a cloth around the pipe. It also noted 
the front window to the property was in poor condition as was the lead flashing on the 
outside of the extension which it believed was letting in water. It also noted damage to the 
rear wall and pitched roof of the extension all of which were consistent with the high-level 
damage itd noted internally.  
The restoration contractor went onto note that the sauna room (located off of the 
conservatory) was inaccessible but the shower room behind it had extensive high-level water 
damage consistent with ingress from above. It said the ceramic flooring in the conservatory 
had a high moisture reading and silts on the tiles which looked like they had ingressed from 
the side of the property and not the front (where the damaged drain had been) because 
there were no silts visible in the front room. The restoration contractor said that if the 
property had suffered flood water ingress he thought itd only tracked about 1-1.5m into the 
annex at the front of the house as the moisture readings after that point were dry. 
St Andrews reviewed the disaster contractors report and two days later made Mrs B a cash 
offer of £8,972.48 to settle the claim for damage to the annex. It declined her claim for 
damage to the conservatory as it thought that the damage there was historical because 
water was entering it from various places and so was the result of poor maintenance.
Mrs B said she thought the settlement offered to her was inadequate for the works required. 
She said shed had no issues with the conservatory before the flood and that both its, and 
the annexs, foundations would need fixing. Mrs B said the flood had damaged her driveway 
too causing it to dip under the weight of water. She said shed have to get her own structural 
engineers report which shed send to St Andrews. 
St Andrews chased Mrs B a few times through November 2019. In mid-December it 
received a mandate from a loss assessor shed appointed to act on her behalf. 
In late January 2020, the PCC met the loss assessor, St Andrews contractor and Mrs B at 
the house. It was agreed that the flood water had affected the front annex laminate flooring 
and wood wall panelling. The PCC and the contractor pointed out to the loss assessor that 
the conservatory damage was a result of water getting in at roof height. The PCC agreed 
that Mrs Bs loss assessor could send him his own schedule of repairs which he would then 
review.  
The loss assessor sent St Andrews his schedule of repairs a few weeks later totalling in 
excess of £53,000. Having reviewed the schedule, the PCC proposed to the loss assessor 
that there should be another meeting at the property. The loss assessor said he was 
currently too busy to attend and that the schedule hed prepared was reasonable for the 
works involved. The PCC wrote to the loss assessor to say hed reviewed the schedule and 
noted it included an allowance of £5,599 for contingencies and health and safety compliance 
which it was unwilling to include. He also said the damage to the driveway claimed for 
(£1,250) was caused by tree roots not flood water (so should not be included) and that he 
remained of the view that any damage to the conservatory (£13,320), sauna (£3,210) and 
shower room (£4,425) was caused by high level water ingress (and should not be included). 
The PCC said he awaited the loss assessors revised schedule. 
The loss assessor disagreed with the PCCs comments stating that the black silt on the 
conservatory floor tiles had come from the drain overflow. He also referred to his own water 
damage specialists report which said the floor was covered in contaminants which, he said, 
only could have come from the drains. St Andrews PCC said he wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. 
The loss assessor complained to St Andrews on Mrs Bs behalf. St Andrews issued Mrs B 
with a final response letter in early August 2020 upholding a complaint about the delay in the 
PCC responding to her for which it paid her compensation of £100. St Andrews also said it 
was appointing a new PCC to her claim. With respect to liability, St Andrews said the new 
PCC was liaising with her loss assessor and was looking at alternative ways to assess the 
damage without needing to undertake a visit. 
Mrs Bs loss assessor sent St Andrews a video of the damage. There was a delay in 
St Andrews being able to upload it to view about which a further complaint was made and 
upheld. Compensation of £25 was paid to Mrs B. 
St Andrews new PCC reviewed the video and also said the damage to the driveway wasnt 
consistent with flood damage. He said the damage to the tongue and groove panelling 
throughout was largely long standing (including rot and staining at low and high levels) and 
pre-dated the claim. He also said the damage to the ceramic tiles in the conservatory wasnt 
consistent with flood damage nor was the wall damage to the tiles in the shower which were 
falling off at a high level. So the new PCC said hed reviewed St Andrews scope of works 
drawn up just after the claim was made in October 2019 and felt it represented a reasonable 
allowance for the damage caused by the insured event. The loss assessor and Mrs B didnt agree. The loss assessor said he wanted the claim 
passed to an independent loss adjuster to review. St Andrews said it wasnt prepared to do 
that because it remained of the view that it had acted in line with the policy terms and had 
made an offer to settle the claim in line with the extent of its liability. 
In January 2021, Mrs Bs loss assessor then complained to this service on her behalf. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
Our investigator thought that the report from St Andrews restoration expert was detailed and 
persuasive as to how the various areas of damage had been caused. He also thought that 
the moisture survey Mrs B had commissioned hadnt provided any clear comment on what 
had caused the various areas of damage. So he said he couldnt agree that Mrs Bs report 
had confirmed the flood was the cause of all the damage. And he said the report made no 
mention about the general condition of the affected rooms despite the photographs showing 
they werent in a good condition overall nor did it make any comment about the driveway 
damage. Our investigator noted that the report did mention that there were areas 
contaminated by the flood water but that it made no mention of what damage the 
contamination had caused. Finally, our investigator noted that St Andrews report was based 
on an inspection 10 days after the event whereas the Mrs Bs was done two months after the 
event. 
Our investigator also thought that the loss assessors scope of works didnt demonstrate that 
the repairs listed were needed as a consequence of the flood damage. And whilst the loss 
assessor had said that the external issues with the lead flashing had only impacted the store 
cupboard, and not the sauna or shower, he found the restoration experts report more 
persuasive on this issue. So he didnt think that St Andrews had unreasonably concluded 
that the damage to the sauna and shower room hadnt been caused by the flood or that the 
damage to the conservatory was pre-existing and the result of poor maintenance (so also 
not caused by the flood). 
Nor did our investigator think that Mrs B had shown that the driveway was damaged by the 
flood so he didnt think St Andrews had unfairly declined this aspect of Mrs Bs claim. 
Overall, our investigator thought St Andrews had handled the claim fairly, had offered a 
reasonable settlement and didnt need to appoint an independent a loss adjuster. For the 
delays Mrs B had experienced, our investigator thought St Andrews had paid her fair 
compensation of £125. 
St Andrews accepted our investigators findings but Mrs B, through her loss assessor, didnt. 
The loss assessor said: 
Mrs B had never seen a full copy of the restoration experts report; 
that the conservatory had clearly been damaged by the flood as shown in Mrs Bs 
moisture report and the photographs; 
that any disturbed flashing would not have caused the extensive lower level damage in 
the conservatory; 
black silt on the conservatory floor was evident where it met the dividing wall of the front 
annex so it mustve come from the flood and not the roof; 
he understood that St Andrews had included the conservatory damage in its original 
offer so it couldnt be argued now that it wasnt affected; 
that St Andrews had provided no breakdown of what its offer included; 
had an independent surveyor been appointed then another visit to the house couldve 
been facilitated;
it isnt normal, when theres a clear dispute and the customer requests a managers 
review, to simply pass the file to another colleague;photographs of the rest of the house show it is well maintained;
that there was damage to contents but no settlement offer had been made.
Our investigator thought about what the loss assessor said and replied to say he had 
addressed most of the points already. As regards the contents claim he said that would need 
to be raised with St Andrews first. He said hed ask St Andrews to provide Mrs B with a 
breakdown of the works on which its settlement offer was based along with a copy of the 
restoration experts report.
Mrs B asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to consider. Prior to doing so, 
the loss assessor commented that hed received a copy of the restoration experts report 
which hed not seen previously. He said that whilst the report referred to high level water 
damage, that was only located in the corner of the conservatory below where the flashing 
was disturbed. He also said the black silt wasnt near the external door but abutting the party 
wall of the annex and Mrs Bs photographs clearly showed the conservatory and annex floor 
flooded after the incident. The loss assessor said the contaminants present in the silt 
confirmed that the water came from the flood. Insofar as there were any leaks on waste 
pipes, he said Mrs B had confirmed these were minor and werent responsible for the 
damage to the conservatory and annex. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by home insurance. Only damage caused by 
one of the insured events (also known as perils) listed in the policy  such as flood, fire, 
theft, storm etc.  is covered. Its the responsibility of the policyholder to show that the 
damage they are claiming for is caused by one of the perils listed in the policy. Providing 
they can do so, the insurer must pay the claim unless it is able to successfully rely on one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Here, damage has been caused to Mrs Bs home by a flood from a manhole in the street. 
And whilst St Andrews has accepted that Mrs Bs home was damaged by the flood, a 
dispute has arisen about the extent of the damage claimed for. 
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to handle insurance claims. Its my role to decide 
whether St Andrews has treated Mrs B fairly and reasonably in the way its handled her 
complaint and, I have to say, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
Ive set out in some detail above the sequence of events. I can see that St Andrews 
accepted the claim promptly, assessed the damage quickly and made Mrs B an offer of 
settlement all within about 2 weeks of her reporting the claim. St Andrews appointed a water 
restoration expert to report on the damage at the house. There are two expert reports 
available, both of which Ive read. One from St Andrews water restoration expert and one 
from Mrs Bs damage management company. 
Its my understanding  from reading the water restoration experts report - that a manhole to 
the front of the house flooded and that flood water entered the annex (to the side of the front 
of property), including its entrance lobby, but up to no more than 1.5m into the annex itself. 
Beyond 1.5m the moisture meters indicated the floor was dry. I understand that the 
conservatory is to the rear of the property and I can see the water restoration expert noted 
that on its exterior there was a lead gulley full of water, that a lead seal under the plastic was no longer water tight and that there was damage to the rear wall and pitched roof. The 
expert noted that the poorly maintained areas he observed externally were consistent with 
the damage he found in the rear of the conservatory internally. 
It seems that off of the conservatory there was a sauna, a shower room and a store 
cupboard. The expert couldnt access the sauna but noted the room behind it (which I 
understand is the shower room) had extensive high-level water damage consistent with 
ingress from above. He also noted there was damage at floor level and took a reading of 
100% moisture content in the wood panelling. The expert noted that the ceramic tiles in the 
conservatory had a high moisture reading and that there was evidence of silts but crucially 
he didnt think the silts had ingressed from the front of the property (where the manhole was 
located) because there were no silts present in the front room. So he thought the silts looked 
like they had come in from the side. Overall he thought the conservatory was poorly 
constructed and poorly maintained. He thought that any flood damage was confined to the 
front of the property as the floor readings were dry thereafter. 
Ive seen the photographs of the conservatory and it doesnt appear to be in good condition. 
And whilst I note the loss assessor says that black silt on the conservatory floor was evident 
where it met the dividing wall of the front annex, meaning it mustve come from the flood and 
not the roof, Im not persuaded  taking the comments of St Andrews restoration contractor 
into account  to agree. The readings are clear that the flood water ingress only tracked 
about 1-1.5m into the annex as the moisture readings after that point were dry. So I cant 
see how the flood water wouldve reached the conservatory party wall and caused the black 
silt. And I note the front room was undamaged. 
In contrast, the damage management companys report says the conservatory was 
contaminated by affected water but it doesnt comment on what damage that contaminated 
water caused. It makes no mention either about the general condition of the property, or the 
different areas of damage, or how theyd been caused, or the purported driveway damage or 
how that was caused. Indeed the company states that its been instructed to carry out in-
depth moisture readings and swab tests to see if the property has been contaminated by 
affected water. It doesnt state its been asked to comment on what caused the damage. And 
its estimate for the strip out works to the lounge (by which I assume it meant the annex), the 
conservatory, store room, sauna and shower room was £4,884 (plus VAT). Significantly, it 
didnt include removing the conservatory floor tiles as part of its quote for the strip out.  
So, on balance, its not unreasonable to think that this report is less persuasive that 
St Andrews restoration contractors report. It attended 10 days after the flood and its 
findings are detailed and supported with images and moisture readings. Without any expert 
evidence to counter what St Andrews expert has said about the damage to the conservatory 
I cant reasonably conclude that it has unfairly declined this aspect of Mrs Bs claim.
 
Ive considered the loss assessors scope of works too but that doesnt amount to evidence 
of the cause the damage. Its a list of the work the house needs irrespective of why; it 
doesnt show the repairs listed were required as a result of an insured event. And whilst the 
loss assessor has said that the external issues with the flashing only impacted the store 
room, and not the shower room or sauna, I cant reasonably ignore the restoration 
contractors comments about the high-level water damage to the shower room caused by the 
lead flashing issues. 
Taking all the circumstances and evidence into account I dont think that St Andrews unfairly 
concluded that the damage to the store room, sauna and shower room were most likely 
caused by water ingress at high level (as a result of the lead flashing issues). And whilst Ive 
noted the loss assessors comments about the high-level damage being the result of 
capillary action caused by the flood, Ive seen no expert evidence that this was likely what happened. Its reasonable to think that the high-level damage was the result of the external 
issues Ive already mentioned. 
Nor do I think St Andrews has unreasonably excluded the driveway damage from its 
settlement. From the chronology of events Ive set out above, this damage wasnt even 
mentioned by Mrs B until after St Andrews had sent its contractors round to assess the 
damage and after it had made its offer to settle the claim. The damage to the driveway as 
described by Mrs B doesnt seem consistent with that which Id expect to see caused by a 
flood. I think its more likely the damage was, as St Andrews has said, caused by tree root 
action from the large fir in the vicinity. And whilst the loss assessor says that large volumes 
of water are capable of undermining driveway paving, Ive seen no expert evidence that the 
damage to Mrs Bs driveway was the result of the insured event  the flood  thats the 
subject of her claim. It isnt enough, in the absence of expert evidence, to insist the damage 
wasnt there before the flood. 
Ive also thought about the loss assessors request that an independent loss adjuster be 
appointed, a request that St Andrews has declined. Ive set out in some detail above the 
attention given by St Andrews to this claim, including its proposal to reattend the property to 
discuss the damage further which was declined by the loss assessor because he was too 
busy at the time (this suggestion pre-dated the pandemic). St Andrews says it has offered to 
settle Mrs Bs claim in line with the extent of its liability under the policy terms. As I agree 
that St Andrews offer is a fair settlement of Mrs Bs claim in the circumstances, it follows that 
I dont think St Andrews has unreasonably declined her request that an independent loss 
adjuster be appointed.
St Andrews said that its willing to consider any further information about the claim that 
Mrs B is able to provide. That seems reasonable to me. And if Mrs B thinks there are other 
areas that St Andrews should be covering then she should provide it with the necessary 
evidence, such as an experts report. But I cant reasonably require St Andrews to appoint 
an independent loss adjuster just because the loss assessor demands it or because he is of 
the view it isnt normal for the claim to be passed from one claims handler to another. I dont 
think St Andrews was under any obligation to do that either but, in an effort to address 
Mrs Bs complaint, I can see that it did.  
Ive seen no evidence that St Andrews included any conservatory damage within its original 
settlement offer as suggested by the loss assessor. 
Part of Mrs Bs claim relates to contents damaged by the flood. It is my understanding from 
the evidence Ive seen that this element of Mrs Bs claim hasnt been settled by St Andrews. 
I can see that St Andrews asked the loss assessor for a detailed report about the electrical 
items Mrs B claimed were damaged and that he said in response that as they had been 
submerged in sewage he saw no point in obtaining one at that point. And I can see that 
St Andrews said many of the contents items had been disposed of before itd had a chance 
to review them. 
Our investigator contacted St Andrews in March 2021 to say that Mrs B wanted to complain 
about the status of her unresolved contents claim and he asked St Andrews to issue Mrs B 
with its final response letter on the complaint or to let him know if itd already done so. Our 
investigator chased St Andrews in in April 2021, late June 2021 and mid-July 2021 but has 
yet to receive a response. 
Whilst that is regrettable, Im unable to look at Mrs Bs complaint about her contents claim 
here. I can see that contents were discussed throughout the claim but there is no mention of 
them in the final response letters issued by St Andrews and I cant see, despite the loss 
assessor claiming otherwise, that a formal complaint has been raised about this issue by 
Mrs B to St Andrews such that it should therefore form part of her complaint to this service. So, Mrs B will need to contact St Andrews directly herself and raise her complaint with it in 
the first instance. St Andrews will then have 8 weeks in which to issue Mrs B with a final 
response to her complaint after which, if she is unhappy with its findings, she will be able to 
make a further complaint to this service.
I think that St Andrews offer of settlement for the damage sustained by Mrs Bs home as 
result of the flood to the front of her home is fair and reasonable. It follows that I cant fairly 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think that St Andrews has treated her 
unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman