DRN-3162091
The complaint
Mr J has complained about his car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. He says it took too long to 
repair his car, he twice had to get it to do work again, and he was without a courtesy car for 
most of the repair period (which was twelve weeks).
What happened
Mr J had an accident on 29 August 2020. His car went to AXAs garage for repair on 
2 September 2020. Hed been told the car would only be away for a couple of weeks and he 
was happy to be without a courtesy car for that period. But then the car wasnt ready. When 
the garage did say the car was ready, it was evident work had been done poorly. This 
happened twice and AXA involved an independent engineer. In November Mr J was given a 
hire car for one week. His car was returned to him on 8 December 2020. 
Mr J had complained to AXA on several occasions during the time his car was being 
repaired, and it had responded. But when he remained unhappy he complained to us. AXA 
told him, and/or us, over several different communications that, in total it had offered and/or 
paid Mr J £690 compensation to make up for the upset it had caused  £90 of which was for 
six-days loss of use of his car. 
Our investigator noted AXA had paid Mr J £300 compensation, which she felt was fair. But 
she thought it hadnt acknowledged that it had left Mr J without a courtesy car until 
14 November 2020. So she said it should pay Mr J a further £400 compensation. AXA 
pointed out it had paid £90 for loss of use already. It also said, as far as it was aware, the 
period Mr J had been without a car was 20 November 2020 to 8 December 2020. So it said it 
was unsure why £400 was felt reasonable for that short time. A new investigator noted Mr J 
had told us he had been without a car for twelve weeks and the new investigator felt £400 for 
that was fair and reasonable. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to uphold the complaint. I determined that AXA had likely paid £500 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to Mr J already. And that it had at least offered 
£90 for his loss of use. I felt it needed to do more  pay a total of £600 and £940 
compensation respectively for upset and loss of use. I explained why that was.
Mr J said he accepted my findings. AXA said it couldnt see why I was saying it should pay 
the additional sums, particularly as it had already taken into account that Mr J had been 
without his car for a period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
AXA accepts that it gave poor service to Mr J. By my reckoning it has offered and/or paid 
Mr J a total of £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. It has 
shown that cheques totalling £500 (of the £600) have been cleared. And Mr J acknowledges 
receipt of £500 from AXA. I note that Mr Js car was away being repaired for an extended 
period, and he was told twice it was ready to collect when it wasnt, with significant rework 
being needed. I think this was very distressing and inconvenient for Mr J. I think £600 is fair 
and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. If AXA hasnt paid the final £100 of that 
total sum, I think it now should.
But I also have to take account of the fact that Mr J was without use of a car for an extended 
period. I note he was initially happy to be without a car for two weeks at the start of the 
repairs. But I also acknowledge that he said he was happy to forego the courtesy car on the 
basis of a promise from the garage that this would enable them to repair his car quicker  so 
it should be ready for return within two weeks. Clearly that promise wasnt kept. I also note 
that Mr J did have use of a hire car for six-days in November, with this being collected on 
20 November. Mr J was then without a car again until his was returned on 
8 December 2020. And AXA did acknowledge it should pay Mr J £90 for six-days loss of use 
(based on its rate of £15 a day).
Given the garages promise was broken, I am prepared to say the loss of use period for AXA 
to compensate Mr J for should run from 2 September 2020. With Mr Js car not being 
returned to him until 8 December 2020, I make that a total period of 97 days (as he had his 
car back on 8 December 2020). AXA has accounted for twelve of those days by provision of 
a hire car and payment or offer of payment of £90. That leaves 85 days for it to compensate 
Mr J for. This service usually feels that a rate of £10 per day for being without a car is fair 
and reasonable compensation. So I think AXA should pay Mr J a further £850. And if it cant 
satisfy me that the proffered sum of £90 has been received by Mr J, it will have to pay him 
that too.
Im sure if AXA re-reads my decision, it will see why Ive awarded the sums I have. In short, 
I determined AXA had already paid Mr J £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
and that a total of £600 was fairly and reasonably due. Also, I found that Mr J had been 
without his car for 97 days in total. I accepted that of those 97 days; AXA had given Mr J a 
hire car for six days, and offered £90 for a further six days. Making 12 days in total that AXA 
had accounted for. So I said AXA hadnt taken that whole 97 day period into account and it 
should pay additionally to do so.
I remain of the view that AXA should pay Mr J a total of £600 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and £940 for Mr Js loss of use of his car for 97 days. But AXA has made 
some payments to Mr J, so it will only now have to pay to him the sums outstanding. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr J:
£850 as compensation for his not having use of a car, or not having been compensated 
for not having use of a car, for most of the period between 2 September 2020 and 
7 December 2020 inclusive (which includes the six-day period of hire). 
And, if it hasnt paid the following sums already, they will have to be paid too:
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience (making the total paid for this £600, 
with £500 having been paid already).
£90 as compensation for six-days loss of use, during the period 2 September 2020 to 
7 December 2020 (making the total paid for this whole period, which includes the six-day 
period of hire, when adding in my above award; £940).
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman