DRN-3193288
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy with the service provided by Amtrust Europe Limited when making a claim 
under a furniture warranty. 
What happened
Mr Z made a claim to Amtrust in March 2020, when part of his sofa became stuck in the 
recline position. He chased a response in May after hearing nothing back. Amtrust asked 
him to resend his claim form as it couldnt be located, which he did. Amtrust then sent a 
technician to review the problem in June 2020. He found that the side switch controlling the 
decline function was faulty. A replacement was ordered. The technician returned toward the 
end of June to fit the part. But this didnt work.
A different switch was ordered. Mr Z says a series of miscommunication and inaccurate 
information followed with respect to the replacement part and when this would be received. 
Mr Z complained to the company.
Amtrust wrote to Mr Z in May 2021 apologising for the delays and problems dealing with his 
claim. To acknowledge this, it offered him £150 in compensation. It says the required part 
has been ordered as of May 2021, and that it will be in contact once received. Unfortunately, 
the repair didnt take place as the part wasnt received. 
In September Amtrust offered Mr Z a reselection, meaning he had the original purchase 
price of the sofa (£3,100) to spend at the original retailer. It also offered an alternative cash 
payment of £1,550. In November 2021 it sent another complaint response adding a further 
£75 in compensation for delays and poor communication.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this outcome and asked our service to review the matter. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Amtrusts offer to resolve the claim was 
in line with the terms of its policy. He also though the compensation offered for the delays 
and communication issues was fair. Mr Z disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint. I realise this will be a 
disappointment, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mr Zs sofa developed a fault with the switch that operates the reclining feature. Amtrust 
accepts a fault has developed with the switch, and this is covered by its policy. The dispute 
here is about the offer it made to settle Mr Zs claim. As well as the delays and poor service 
experienced during the claim process. 
The policy terms say:
Section 2-Limits of Cover:
1. The most the insurer will pay under this furniture protection plan is limited to the original 
purchase price of your product up to a maximum of £15,000 (including VAT).
3. If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. In the event 
of this not being possible [Amtrust] may at its sole discretion provide a replacement 
product(s). Alternatively, [Amtrust] may at its sole discretion settle the claim by a cash 
payment instead of a repair or replacement. Any cash settlement will be limited to the 
equivalent cost of repair or replacement by ]Amtrust].
From this I think Amtrusts attempt to repair the faulty switch was reasonable. A repair was 
the first option to be attempted. Because of the ongoing problem getting hold of a 
replacement part, it was fair to consider alternative options. I will talk about the time Amtrust 
took to reach this decision below. But I think its reselection offer to spend at the original 
retailer, was reasonable. This was for the original purchase price of the sofa, which is the 
maximum amount payable under the policy terms. 
I note Mr Zs comments that the policy terms dont specifically restrict the customer to buying 
from the original retailer. He says a similar sofa to his, would now cost a lot more from the 
retailer he bought it from. I understand he bought the sofa at a significant discount from the 
usual retail price. So, the reselection offer wouldnt cover the cost of a similar sofa without a 
similar discount.
I sympathise with Mr Zs situation. But I think by providing him with the full purchase price to 
spend at the original retailer Amtrust behaved fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Amtrust offered a cash alternative. Mr Z considers the amount offered unfair. He says even 
with any discount the company could achieve, this is much less than the retail price of an 
available replacement, which will cost around £6,500. 
I can understand Mr Zs disappointment. But the terms of the policy are clear that any cash 
settlement is at Amtrusts discretion. The terms define what the cash settlement will be 
limited to. And Amtrust has explained to Mr Z that its cash offer is based on the anticipated 
costs it would incur. Although this is disappointing for Mr Z, I dont think hes shown that 
Amtrusts offer was unreasonable. The significant discount he obtained when buying the 
sofa is the key factor in why the policy is unlikely to meet the cost of a full priced 
replacement. 
Finally, I have thought about the time taken by Amtrust to handle Mr Zs claim, and the 
impact this had. 
Mr Z first claimed in March 2020 and had to resubmit a complaint form in May, as the 
original couldnt be found. When the technician attended in June, a part was ordered that 
didnt fit. There were significant delays from June onwards when ordering the replacement 
part. Some of this can be attributed to delays caused by the manufacturer. But Amtrust 
accepts it didnt chase the company effectively when the part wasnt received. 
Technician appointments were cancelled in December, twice. I understand this was because 
of a van breaking down and the replacement part that was lost in transit. Amtrust explains 
the order it placed in January 2021 wasnt completed correctly, resulting in further delay. The 
replacement part was subsequently ordered again in May. But this wasnt successful, which 
is when Amtrust made its alternative offer in September. Mr Z has no confidence that the information Amtrust provided to him was accurate. I can 
understand his concerns, given the significant delays and confusion it caused when dealing 
with his claim and his correspondence. From Mr Zs first contact to receiving Amtrusts offer 
took around 18 months. I think its clear from this that he didnt receive a good standard of 
service. 
Mr Z did have use of the sofa during this period. I understand he was able to return the 
affected section of sofa to the upright position by using the switch for the other declining 
section. However, the full functionality of the sofa wasnt available to him. I acknowledge his 
comments that he has a health condition, which is why he bought the sofa to help with this.
Its clear this matter has been very frustrating for Mr Z. He has been caused inconvenience 
by the contact required with Amtrust over an extended period. Also, when arranging to be at 
home, only for technician appointments to be cancelled. And he couldnt benefit from the full 
use of his sofa. I think its fair that Amtrust acknowledged this with an apology and 
compensation. But I think the £225 it offered is reasonable in the circumstances described. 
In summary I think Amtrust behave reasonably and line with the policy terms when offering 
Mr Z the option of either the full price of the sofa to spend at the original retailer, or a cash 
alternative. I dont think it treated him fairly given the poor standard of service and delays. 
But it was fair to provide an apology and £225 compensation. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman