DRN-1679513
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B applied for mortgage from Yorkshire in 1999. At the same time, they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered only Mr B against not being able to work due to 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy could have paid a monthly 
benefit of £500 for up to 12 months per claim, the policy was free for the first six months then 
cost £13.02 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Mr and Mrs B recall they were actually sold the policy in 1995. Yorkshire has told us it sold 
the policy in August 1999. Ive seen screenshots from Yorkshires internal records that all 
show the policy being sold in 1999. The paperwork from the time also shows Mr and Mrs B 
applied for a mortgage and were sold the policy in 1999. Ive not seen any documentary 
evidence of a policy sold in 1995. So in this decision I am looking only at the policy sold to 
Mr and Mrs B in 1999. If Mr and Mrs B can provide Yorkshire with any other evidence of 
another policy sold to them in 1995 the Yorkshire should of course look into that.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs B say they were pressured into taking out the PPI. They recall being told it was 
in effect part of the mortgage and were advised to take it in order to get the application 
approved.
Yorkshire had to make it clear the policy was optional.
Ive looked at the mortgage application from the time and I cant see anything that shows the 
policy was compulsory. The mortgage application states that Yorkshire would pay the first 
six months premiums if you choose to take out cover. It also gives the option of selecting 
from three levels of cover, Accident and Sickness, Unemployment, or all three. And I can 
see the box to select unemployment only has been ticked and a separate application form 
for the PPI completed.
I cant know what was said during the meeting and I do think its likely the Yorkshire 
representative said that Mr and Mrs B should consider the cover. But thats different to 
saying they had to. The cover was also free for the first six months so it could be Mr and Mrs 
B chose to take it out then continued with it after the free period expired. And I also note Mr 
and Mrs B amended the cover in 2005 and continued with the policy until they redeemed the 
mortgage in 2008.
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs B were likely made aware the PPI was optional. So, 
I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although I can understand 
why they cant remember this after so many years.
Yorkshire has told us it didnt recommend the policy. But this was a face-to-face meeting so I 
can understand if Mr and Mrs B thought they were being advised. In any event it doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Thats because if Yorkshire had advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the policy then it had to check 
that the PPI was right for Mr B who was the person covered. And based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for example he 
had wasnt in an unusual employment situation that would not be covered.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B would have got sick pay from his work, but the policy 
only covered unemployment so it wouldnt have duplicated his employers sick pay benefits.
From the mortgage application I can see Mr B had been with his employer for around five 
years at the time the policy was sold. So if Mr B had lost his job it is unlikely hed have 
received a significant redundancy payment. So the policy benefit would be useful to him.
Mr and Mrs B had some savings they could rely on. But they chose to keep the savings 
intact rather than use them to reduce the mortgage. So, the savings were likely important to 
them. And the PPI would mean they didnt have to use the savings to pay the mortgage if  
Mr B lost his job.
Its possible the information Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them 
off taking out the cover.
In summary, I think its likely Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs B a fair choice over buying the 
policy. I think it was likely to have been right for Mr B and even if Yorkshire had given them 
all the information it should have, theyd have still gone ahead and taken it out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 August 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman