DRN-3848293
The complaint
Miss B has complained about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
References to QIC include companies and contractors acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss B contacted QIC when a leak from a toilet damaged her home. Miss B complained to 
QIC about some aspects of how the claim was being handled, including the scope of works 
and issues around the contractors. When QIC replied, it said it had already made 
arrangements to go through the scope of work, but accepted there were issues with delays 
for some parts of the claim. It offered £200 compensation.
This service then considered the complaint. Our investigator upheld it. She said there were 
delays with the claim and issues with how QIC required Miss B to communicate with it. She 
said she didnt think QIC had fully taken into account the impact on Miss B, including 
because of issues with the electrics and the condition of the property. She said QIC should 
pay a total of £500 compensation.
As Miss B didnt agree with the compensation amount, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have only considered issues that were complained about up to the date of QICs final 
response letter. Im aware that Miss B has raised further issues with QIC since that date, but 
Im unable to consider those in this decision.
Based on what Ive seen, Miss B was concerned about how her claim was being handled 
and had concerns about the service she was receiving from the start of the claim. QIC 
arranged for an inspection to be carried out so drying could commence. During the 
inspection, it was noted that Miss B had no electrics or heating. From what I can see, there 
was disagreement about an electrician being arranged and who should arrange this. For 
example, I note that Miss B told QIC by email that she wouldnt arrange an electrician until 
her home had been made safe and the damage assessed. QIC then arranged for an 
electrician to visit. Following this, Miss B continued to be concerned about a fishy smell in 
her home, which she thought suggested there was still a problem with some of the electrics. 
Im aware that electrical testing was carried out a while later, which indicated there were 
issues with the electrics that required further investigation.
Looking at what happened, I also think there was confusion during the handling of this claim. 
I dont think it was always clear what work had and hadnt been carried out and what needed 
to be confirmed as complete before the next part of the claim could progress. There were 
also issues and delays with agreeing the scope of works. Miss B also didnt want to 
correspond with QIC through its portal and instead wanted to do so by email. QIC has 
confirmed to this service that it would normally correspond via the portal, but that email could 
also be used.
Overall, I dont think the claim was well handled during the period I am looking at. Having 
thought about this carefully, I think QIC should pay a total of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss B, which includes the £200 it previously offered, as I think this 
more fairly reflects the impact on Miss B.
Putting things right
QIC should pay Miss B a total of £500 compensation, which includes the £200 it previously 
offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss B £500 compensation, which includes the £200 it previously 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman