DRN-3369362
The complaint
Mrs B complains Jarvis Investment Management Limited provided her with misleading 
information, which led to her selling shares she didnt own via its certificated dealing service. 
What happened
Mrs B owned shares in a firm Ill refer to as Company D. Shed originally bought these 
shares through Jarvis certificated dealing service. 
In April 2021, Mrs B decided to sell her shares. She called Jarvis and spoke to its dealing 
desk. When asked what shares she wanted to sell, she wavered between naming Company 
D and Jarvis itself. After pushing Mrs B for clarification, Jarvis call handler processed an 
order to sell an amount of Jarvis own shares, equal to the number of shares she held in 
Company D. 
But Mrs B didnt own any Jarvis shares. And when this became apparent to Jarvis, it 
processed a reciprocal purchase of Jarvis shares on Mrs Bs behalf to reconcile the error. 
Due to movements in the markets, this meant Mrs B ended up owing a debt to Jarvis, which 
she settled promptly. Mrs Bs actual shareholding in Company D, was sold shortly after the 
error had come to light.     
Mrs B complained to Jarvis. She felt itd confused her during the phone call in April. She 
didnt think it was fair she should have to pay the cost of reconciling the error. Jarvis rejected 
Mrs Bs complaint. It argued it wasnt responsible for the error because itd only followed the 
instructions Mrs B gave it. As Mrs B was unhappy with Jarvis response, she referred the 
matter to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. They argued Jarvis shouldve understood that 
Mrs B presented to its call handler as being vulnerable. Had Jarvis understood this, our 
investigator argued it ought reasonably to have taken greater care when processing Mrs Bs 
request, and if itd done so, its most likely the error in question would not have happened. 
Our investigator recommended Jarvis should reimburse Mrs B for the cost shed paid 
following the reconciliation of the error.
Jarvis replied to our investigators assessment to say that it accepted it couldve done more 
for Mrs B. So whilst it didnt agree to fully reimburse Mrs B, it felt that offering her a 50% 
reimbursement was fair in the circumstances. But Mrs B didnt accept Jarvis offer, so the 
matters been referred to me. 
I provisionally upheld Mrs Bs complaint. My findings were as follows: 
As a regulated firm, Jarvis is required to treat its customers fairly. And as part of treating its 
customers fairly, Jarvis regulator has specified that the firm must be vigilant for signs of 
vulnerability in its customers. Where it finds them, Jarvis regulator expects it to take 
practical action to ensure those who are vulnerable, arent unfairly left at risk of harm or 
disadvantage because of their vulnerability.   
Jarvis has provided our service with a document which outlines the firms internal policy on 
identifying and assisting customers it regards as being vulnerable. The document 
acknowledges that it exists in response to the regulators requirements Ive referenced 
above. The document establishes that: 
All staff that directly interact with customers are provided with regular call handling 
training. This training leads staff to use appropriate communication skills (particularly 
listening skills) and to treat each customer as an individual. 
It goes on to say that: 
During interactions with customers and their accounts, staff should be [sic] look out 
for potential triggers that could indicate that a customer is vulnerable in some way 
Some examples are given below but the list is not exhaustive
On the phone: 
Signs of agitation
Asking for repetition (a sign that the customer is not retaining information). 
So mindful of the subject matter of this complaint, I must decide whether, in its dealings with 
Mrs B, Jarvis has treated her fairly and in line with the guidance it issued to its staff. If I was 
persuaded itd failed to treat Mrs B fairly, I must decide what it must do to fairly and 
reasonably redress her complaint. 
Ive begun by listening to the call which lies at the heart of this complaint. In April 2021 Mrs B 
called Jarvis to dispose of the Company D shares shed purchased from it the year before. 
Having listened to this call extensively, its my opinion that: 
Mrs B struggles to keep pace with the speed Jarvis call handler is setting when 
propelling the conversation forwards. 
There are multiple occasions where Mrs B is audibly struggling to understand what is 
being asked of her and asks the call handler to repeat information.  
On occasions where Mrs B appears to be struggling, Jarvis call handler 
presumptively suggests what they think Mrs B means, which further confuses her.
Mrs B correctly mentions at the beginning of the call that shes looking to sell the 
shares in Company D she purchased from Jarvis the year before. She begins to 
waiver on this point as a result of the call handler mis-hearing her, and the call 
handlers subsequent presumptive questioning. 
Given the risks associated with inaccuracies in certificated dealing instructions, it is 
concerning to hear how Jarvis call handler disregarded Mrs Bs apparent confusion 
and maintained the pace of the call. 
Having studied the call, Im satisfied the call handler ought to have recognised that Mrs B 
showed signs of vulnerability. In my opinion, Mrs B sounds agitated, in that she seems 
anxious and unsure of herself throughout the call, even on occasions when shes answering 
in the affirmative. She also asked for questions and information to be repeated to her on a 
number of occasions. Jarvis own internal guidance identifies these points as being triggers 
which could indicate that Mrs B was vulnerable in some way. Jarvis guidance also stresses 
the importance of listening skills and treating its customers as individuals, and Im not 
persuaded its call handler demonstrated much of either of these traits during the call in 
question. 
If the call handler had established Mrs B presented as vulnerable, as Im persuaded they 
reasonably should have, Jarvis shouldve acted to ensure Mrs B wasnt unfairly left at risk of harm or disadvantage. Ive considered what a fair and reasonable interpretation of this 
expectation could mean in the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint. 
I think its significant that during the call, Mrs M mentions early on that Jarvis had sold her 
the shares she wanted to sell a year earlier. I think therefore that when Jarvis call handler 
was confronted with Mrs Ms obvious confusion, its reasonable to expect the call handler 
should have looked up the details of that transaction. This wouldve enabled the call handler 
to be more certain about precisely what it was Mrs M was looking to sell and avoided the 
mistake entirely. 
If technical limitations meant the original instruction couldnt be recalled by the call handler in 
the way Ive described, Im still satisfied theres more Jarvis couldve done to protect Mrs B 
from harm in these circumstances. It strikes me that the call handler seeks to maintain a 
pace which Mrs B consistently struggles to match. In my view, slowing the call down is likely 
to have made things much easier for Mrs B. For example, theres a moment where its 
established that Mrs B is in possession of a share certificate, and the call handler makes the 
assumption that its a certificate for Jarvis own shares despite the confusion at the start of 
the call. Had Mrs B been given the opportunity to read aloud the content of the share 
certificate, it wouldve dispelled the ambiguity around what Mrs B was looking to sell, and 
avoided the mistake entirely. 
I can appreciate that beyond the early exchanges, Mrs B appears to accept Jarvis assertion 
that shes looking to sell its own shares. Jarvis call handler then propels the transaction 
forwards based on this understanding. I have considered that, had Mrs B been more 
assertive, it may have been possible to halt the call handers progress and avoid the error 
that occurred. But whilst I accept that Mrs B could be argued to have some responsibility for 
this, Im satisfied that this was vastly outweighed by Jarvis own obligations to her. As Ive 
mentioned above, the content of the call persuades me Jarvis call handler shouldve 
identified Mrs Bs vulnerability here. And had they done so, Im satisfied that in spite of Mrs 
Bs confusion, it wouldve been possible for the call handler to uncover the truth about what 
shares she was actually looking to sell. 
The evidence in this case persuades me that if Jarviss call handler adhered to the relevant 
guidance, that the error in this case could likely have been avoided. With this in mind, Ive 
moved on to consider what Jarvis should fairly and reasonably do to redress Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Putting things right 
When putting things right, broadly my aim is to return Mrs B to the position she wouldve 
been in, had she been treated fairly by Jarvis. I think that if Jarvis had followed its own and 
the regulators guidance, it wouldve handled its phone call with Mrs B quite differently. And if 
it had done, the likely outcome wouldve been: 
An instruction to sell Jarvis shares would never have been placed, meaning no debt 
would ever have been created, and Mrs B would never be out of pocket as a result. 
Mrs B would have been able to sell her shares in Company D and benefit from the 
price available to her on the day she called. 
Mrs B wouldnt have experienced the upset and inconvenience caused by having to 
settle the debt arising from correcting the Jarvis transaction.  
  
In my view, it is both fair and reasonable to require Jarvis to address each of these points 
when settling Mrs Bs complaint. Firstly, Jarvis must fully refund the costs it charged Mrs B in relation to the settlement of the 
transaction involving Jarvis shares. As its my opinion that Mrs B shouldnt ever have paid 
this cost, I require that Jarvis must calculate and pay simple interest at 8% on the amount 
due back to Mrs B. This interest must be calculated from the date Mrs B paid the cost, up 
until the date of settlement. If Jarvis considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Next, Ive considered the potential that Mrs B may have been worse off financially as a result 
of having disposed of her Company D shares later than shed intended. I sought the 
comments of both parties on this point prior to making my provisional decision. Mrs B was 
concerned that she had been left worse off. But Jarvis has provided data which shows the 
price she ultimately received for her Company D shares was better than she wouldve 
achieved if itd correctly sold her shares during the initial phone call. As I think Mrs B has 
ended up slightly better off here, I dont intend to make any award for this. 
Finally, Ive considered that, in my opinion, the events outlined above all flow from an 
instance of Jarvis failing to treat Mrs B fairly. A result of this has been that Mrs B has been 
caused unnecessary upset and inconvenience. Shes had to settle a debt which she felt was 
unjust in the circumstances, and shes had the disappointment and inconvenience of not 
being able to conclude her transaction at the first opportunity. To fairly recognise the impact 
of this, I require Jarvis to pay her the sum of £100.
Mrs B accepted my decision. Jarvis did not comment on it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has contested the findings I made in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded to depart from them. 
For the reasons given above in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about 
Jarvis. I now require Jarvis to calculate and pay redress to Mrs B in accordance with the 
section titled Putting things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Jarvis Investment Management Limited must calculate and pay 
redress to Mrs B as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman