DRN-3030029
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave him incorrect information about how 
a claim on his motor insurance policy would affect his no claims discount (NCD). 
  
What happened
In early 2021, Mr S contacted UKI about damage hed sustained to his car when hed caught 
the bumper on a pavement. He says he wanted to enquire how a claim would impact his 
NCD. He says that if it was going to make too big an impact, he was planning on scrapping 
the car as it was old and it wasnt worth paying increased premiums for.
Mr S says he was led to believe that hed lose two years no claims, leaving him with seven. 
So he decided to claim for the damage. But he later found out his NCD had reduced to three 
years. And his premium increased by almost £20 a month. Hes unhappy that UKI has given 
him incorrect information which led to him incurring costs. 
UKI says it didnt give incorrect information. It says Mr S was told that if he had five years 
NCD, hed be left with three years after making the claim. It says this was an example and 
had Mr S read his policy documents he wouldve seen that unprotected NCD at five years 
and over are treated the same. So rather than it being a reduction of two years, his NCD was 
reduced to three years regardless of whether he started with five or more. However, to 
apologise for the misunderstanding, UKI paid £55 compensation into Mr S bank account. 
Mr S wasnt happy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the information UKI gave to Mr S was unclear and 
misleading. She felt it led him to believe he was only going to lose two years NCD so he 
made the claim, rather than scrapping the car. In order to put him back in the situation he 
wouldve been in had he received correct information, our investigator suggested that Mr S 
give his car to UKI who would pay him the salvage value and restore his NCD. But Mr S 
didnt want to do this. 
As our investigator didnt think it would be fair for Mr S to benefit from the settled claim and 
have his NCD restored, she then recommended that UKI unwind the claim. This would mean 
Mr S would need to reimburse UKI for the amount it paid out  which was approximately 
£2,000  and in return hed have his NCD reinstated and the claim removed from his record. 
UKI would then have needed to recalculate his new policy premium without the claim against 
him. 
Our investigator also thought UKI should pay an additional £100 compensation for the 
impact this mistake has had on Mr S and the costs hes incurred as a result. Whilst she 
acknowledged that Mr S premium wouldve always increased after a claim regardless of his 
number of years NCD, she didnt think he wouldve made the claim had UKI been clearer. So 
he wouldnt be in this position. 
Mr S didnt want to unwind the claim. But he said hed accept the increased compensation 
as a resolution to whats gone wrong. 
UKI didnt agree  it said Mr S shouldve read his policy documents which explained how his 
NCD would be impacted by a claim. So its not prepared to pay the additional £100 
compensation. As our investigator wasnt able to resolve things, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr S policy says  under a heading entitled how does my No 
Claim Discount work? on page four  the following:
If no claim is made against your policy, your renewal premium will be adjusted in 
accordance with our NCD scale applicable at the renewal date. However, if a claim is 
made against your policy, we may reduce your NCD.
Below this wording, there is a table which shows the number of NCD and how this is affected 
after 1, 2 and 3+ claims. The table shows that NCD of 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 years are treated the 
same. Based on this table, Im satisfied that if Mr S started with nine years NCD (the 
maximum recognised by the policy) he would have three years remaining after one claim 
had been made.
Ive listened to the call between Mr S and UKI in early 2021. In this call, Mr S explains that 
hed caused damage to the bumper of his car when reversing into his driveway, and its been 
sat there for approximately four weeks as he didnt have the money to repair it. He said he 
wanted to make a claim under his policy, but the issue he had was that hed have to pay a 
£350 policy excess, which he wasnt sure hed have available all at once. He wanted to know 
if there were any options available to him. 
The advisor on the call explained that the excess wouldnt be payable until the car had been 
repaired but that the repairing garage wouldnt release the car until it was received. Mr S 
seemed happy with that response and responded saying ok, can we go ahead and do that 
then. 
Based on that instruction, the advisor started processing the claim and took information from 
Mr S about the date and time the accident occurred. After answering, Mr S said can I just 
ask, on this policy, I dont know if I get this or not but do I have protected no claims or how 
does this affect my no claims. The advisor said hed check, and Mr S clarified that he didnt 
think he had protected his no claims.
The advisor apologised for going quiet, he said he was searching for the information. Mr S 
said not to worry and that it can be discussed at the end of the call. He said it was just 
something that came into my head there. 
The advisor said Ill check the years once its loaded, but if its not protected then youll lose 
three years, or two years sorryso say for example youve got five years no claims, itll go 
down to three. Mr M responded to say Ive got ten years so thats quite good.
I agree with our investigator that the information given by the advisor was misleading. Whilst 
its clear hes giving an example, he has implied that one claim will result in a two-year 
reduction. And when Mr M responded that he had ten years NCD, the advisor didnt clarify that this would mean hed lose seven years and be left with three. It was obvious there was a 
misunderstanding here and the advisor didnt take any action to correct it.
Im not persuaded Mr S only made this claim because of the misleading information he was 
given. Hes told our service that hed contacted UKI specifically to enquire about the impact a 
claim would have on his NCD and that hed made the decision to scrap the car if he was 
going to lose it all. But from the conversation he had with UKI, quoted above, I dont think 
that was the case here. 
Mr S was clear on the call that his concern was paying the policy excess. And once this was 
clarified, he asked to proceed with the claim. When he asked about his NCD, he said it was 
something that had just come into his head. And he was prepared to wait until the end of the 
call, after the claim had been processed, before he was told about the impact on his NCD. 
From the information Ive seen, Mr S raised his complaint after hed seen the impact this 
claim had on his policy premium. And whilst some of that increase will be down to his 
reduced NCD, it will largely be as a result of making a claim  especially as this is 
considered a fault claim as there is no third party to hold responsible and recover costs from.
That said, taking a holistic view of everything thats happened, Im persuaded the information 
given to Mr S on the call was misleading. And the advisor wouldve been reasonably aware 
from Mr S reaction that a misunderstanding had taken place. As a result of this, Mr S didnt 
have the full information about his decision to make a claim prior to making it. I wouldnt 
expect him to have to go and re-read the policy documents when he asked an advisor for 
guidance. I think he would have continued with the claim regardless, but Im mindful of the 
impact this misinformation caused. 
Mr S is happy to accept the additional £100 compensation recommended by our investigator 
to resolve his complaint. And I think that fairly reflects what went wrong here. So this is what 
Im directing UKI to pay. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im asking U K Insurance Limited to pay £100 compensation 
in addition to the £55 it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman