DRN-3246662
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly without doing sufficient 
affordability checks or properly evaluating his financial situation when he was already 
struggling financially.  
What happened
Mr H was given a single loan by Bamboo. The main loan details are as follows:
Date taken Date repaid Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsLoan amountTypical monthly  
repayment
6 November 
2018May 2019 60 £4,000 £194.36
When Mr H complained to Bamboo it didnt uphold the complaint. Bamboo said it made a fair 
lending decision and approved the loan after carefully considering Mr Hs circumstances and 
affordability. Bamboo did however offer a payment of £100 as a gesture of goodwill in order 
to settle the complaint quickly.
Mr H didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and he felt that this was a complaint 
we should uphold. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it mainly said that the loan 
was provided for the purpose of debt consolidation and this is what Mr H appeared to use it 
for. Bamboo said its loan helped Mr H improve his overall financial situation as evidenced by 
an updated credit report it has sent us in response to our investigators view which shows 
that Mr Hs debt had decreased from around £26,000 at the time of the application to a little 
over £6,000 more recently.  
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman review so the complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
And its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be affordable 
a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say 
what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate 
checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left 
to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the 
loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate 
check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take 
further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Hs complaint. 
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and verified this by doing an online check. Bamboo obtained a credit 
report to find out about Mr Hs credit history. It also asked Mr H what he paid for his housing 
and relied on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses would be 
for someone in Mr Hs particular circumstances based on national UK averages. 
Mr Hs monthly take home pay was recorded as £2,718. After reviewing the information on 
the credit report it obtained and taking into account what it thought Mr H would likely need to 
spend each month, Bamboo worked out that Mr H should have a cash surplus each month 
of more than £900. So Bamboo concluded that the monthly repayment for this loan 
shouldve been affordable for him. On this basis, Bamboo concluded at the time that it was 
fair to provide this loan to Mr H  and it still thinks this. Bamboo says that not only did Mr H 
repay the loan early, his reliance on credit is now very substantially reduced which all points 
to the loan being sustainably affordable for him and helpful to him.  
Ive carefully taken into account everything Bamboo has said  including comments it made 
in response to our investigators view and the information shown on the updated credit report 
it has sent us. I agree that this shows a big reduction in the amount of expensive credit Mr H 
owes high cost credit providers. But overall I see things differently to Bamboo. I agree with 
our investigator that Bamboo didnt make a fair lending decision when it agreed to provide 
this loan to Mr H based on the information it had in front of it. And I dont feel I've seen 
enough to be able to say that improvement in Mr Hs financial situation is attributable to the 
loan Bamboo provided. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
Bamboo was able to see that Mr Hs outstanding balance owing on loans at the time was 
over £15,000 and he owed around £3,700 on cards. I think, given Mr Hs particular 
circumstances, this did appear to be a lot of unsecured debt for someone who was 
supposed to have around £900 surplus income each month. And I think Bamboo could see 
from its credit checks that the outstanding loan balance Mr H already owed related to what 
appeared to be two high cost unsecured loans he had taken out within the last few months  
one of them just a month earlier in October 2018 with £12,973 owing. 
Mr Hs need to use credit of this sort to this extent wasnt explained either by what he had 
told Bamboo about his financial situation or the other information Bamboo had independently 
gathered. I think Bamboo shouldve realised that the information it had recorded about 
Mr Hs finances was significantly at odds with what its credit checks showed and that it 
couldnt safely rely on what Mr H had told it about his financial situation or how he spent his 
money. All this leads me to think that Bamboo should have carried out a complete review of 
Mr Hs finances and done more to verify what he had declared to ensure a more 
thorough understanding of his financial circumstances. So, Ive looked at what I think 
proportionate checks would likely have shown.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr H which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding his overall financial situation at the time. And I think, if Bamboo had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was 
going to be sustainably affordable for Mr H. 
Mr Hs pay in the months running up to him taking this loan fell significantly short of the 
figure Bamboo had relied on in its affordability assessment. Mr Hs actual average pay over 
the previous three months was around £2,472  almost £250 less than the amount Bamboo 
used in its affordability calculations.   
And I can understand why Bamboo chose to draw on statistical information when assessing 
affordability. But it is apparent that Mr H was regularly paying around £480 to support family 
members which wasnt a cost reflected in the statistical data Bamboo relied on when 
assessing affordability. This alone accounted for more than half the disposable income 
Bamboo thought Mr H had available. So I think its fair to say that Bamboo significantly 
underestimated Mr Hs regular monthly committed expenditure. 
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
Bamboo had calculated, in reality Mr H was often struggling to his keep his bank account in 
credit. He was frequently overdrawn for long periods (often by a four figure amount) and 
regularly paying arranged overdraft fees. 
As well as this, had Bamboo carried out what I consider wouldve been a proportionate 
check, it would likely have found out that in addition to the two loans it saw on its credit 
checks, Mr H had also just taken out another £5,000 loan with a different provider of high 
cost credit less than two weeks before taking out this loan with Bamboo.
I think the overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive credit and 
already unable to afford the cost of his debt without borrowing to fund repayments. So I think 
that Bamboo shouldve realised that having to pay around £194 for this loan didnt look 
sustainably affordable.  
Mr H had told Bamboo that he intended to use this loan for debt consolidation  in other 
words, to pay off other debt. But I think the scale of his debt overall compared to the much 
smaller value of the loan, and the extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive 
credit, would suggest that he would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I dont 
currently think Bamboo should have agreed to give this loan to Mr H.
I've carefully taken into account everything Bamboo has said about the evidence on its 
updated credit report showing a substantial overall reduction in Mr Hs total debt. And I can 
see that he did make a lump sum payment of £3,240 to another creditor just three days or so 
after taking out this Bamboo loan. 
But I dont feel I can fairly say that I've seen enough to make me think that Bamboos loan 
helped Mr H to improve his financial situation. I say this because Mr H effectively moved part 
of his debt to Bamboo and he was able to clear the loan (and other debt) using two 
substantial cash advances totalling nearly £8,000 from family members in May 2019. This 
was twice the amount of Bamboos loan, enough to make a real impact on his outstanding debt  and so far as I can see, it wasnt a loan with a strict repayment schedule or costly 
interest charges. I think this looks like the main reason it proved possible for Mr H to reduce 
his dependency on borrowing from expensive high cost credit providers.  
So I dont agree with Bamboo when it says its loan directly helped Mr H. It cost him extra in 
interest payments over the year it was running and he wouldnt have incurred that additional 
expense if Bamboo hadnt agreed to provide this loan to Mr H. For these reasons, I am 
planning on upholding Mr Hs complaint that he should not have been given the loan.
As Mr H has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges a loan that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr H some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
I thank Bamboo for its detailed responses to this complaint. But for all the reasons I have 
explained above, as things stand, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to take the 
following steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr Hs representative has confirmed he would like to accept my provisional decision. 
I have heard nothing further from Bamboo and the deadline for responses has now passed 
so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr H for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But in line with this Services approach, Mr H 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If Bamboo has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Bamboo should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr H made should be deducted from this amountif this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Hs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to take the steps I've set out above to put 
things right for Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman