DRN-4013925
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with KGM Underwriting Services Limiteds handling of a claim she made 
on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K made a claim on her policy when her campervan was involved in an accident. She 
says KGM asked her to obtain an estimate for the repair work. Mrs Ks garage estimated that 
the repairs would cost over £40,000. KGM deemed the van a total loss and offered to pay 
£10,000 in settlement of the claim, less the policy excess.
Mrs K didnt accept its offer and complained, but KGM said it couldnt adjust its offer as it 
was in line with the value stated in the policy documentation. Mrs K also complained that 
there was water damage to her van while it was with the garage. However, KGM said it 
wasnt responsible for the way the garage stored the van because it was Mrs Ks chosen 
garage. It also said it would only pay storage charges for the van until 8 July 2022, and any 
further charges would be Mrs Ks responsibility because she wouldnt let the garage release 
the van to it. 
Mrs K brought her complaint to our service. She said she was left without transportation for 
two weeks, and she had to take out a loan to buy a new car. Mrs K said she would like a fair 
settlement for her van, and for KGM to take responsibility for the water damage to it. She 
doesnt think she should be held responsible for storage costs and says KGM took an 
unreasonable amount of time dealing with her claim. Mrs K also complained that KGM didnt 
provide her with a courtesy car.
Mrs K later informed us that after getting her local MP involved in the case, KGM increased 
its settlement offer to £18,000, but it still refused to pay the storage costs. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He consulted motor valuation 
guides and said KGMs offer was over the values he obtained from the guides, so he thought 
the offer was fair. He also said KGM tried to collect the van on 8 July 2022, but it couldnt 
because Mrs K didnt want the garage to release it. So, he didnt think it had to continue 
paying the storage costs. Our investigator said the policy entitled Mrs K to a courtesy car. 
Regarding the water damage, our investigator said he could understand why KGM said it 
wasnt responsible for the damage caused by the garage.  
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators view for the following reasons: 
She doesnt think it should have been left up to her to find a garage and arrange a 
quotation for the repair work. 
She says KGM was meant to contact the garage for a valuation, and when she 
contacted the garage, they sent the quotation the following day. 
She says she tried to replace her van and the cheapest replacement she could find 
was £20,000.
Mrs K says after she contacted her MP KGM increased its offer to £18,000. She 
thinks in doing so it acknowledged its initial offer was unfair and unreasonable. 
Mrs K says KGM did not give instructions for the van to be stored undercover which 
she says would have cost more per day for the storage. So, she thinks it was 
negligent and wholly responsible for the water damage to the van. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 February 2023 in which I said: 
 I intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive taken everything thats been said into 
consideration, but I havent addressed it all here. Instead, Ive focused on explaining what is 
key to the decision Ive reached. 
I note on 3 October 2022 Mrs K sent an email to KGM accepting its increased valuation of 
£18,000 for her van. As Mrs K already accepted this offer, I wont comment on whether I 
think it is fair. Instead, Ive focused on her complaint regarding the storage charges and the 
claims handling issues.  
Storage charges
I would normally expect KGM as the insurer to cover the vehicles storage costs as part of a 
claim it settles for its policyholder. KGM says Mrs K wouldnt allow it to minimise the storage 
costs because she wouldnt consent to the garage releasing the van. It therefore doesnt 
think its responsible for costs incurred from 8 July 2022 onwards. So, Ive thought about 
whether it acted reasonably here. 
Although I'm satisfied I don't need to make a finding on the final value it placed on Mrs Ks 
van, due to the way KGM initially calculated its valuation, I find it caused unnecessary delays 
to the settlement of the claim. I'll explain why. 
Under the terms of Mrs Ks policy, KGM must pay her the market value of the van at the time 
of the loss.
The market value is defined in the policy as: the cost of replacing your vehicle with another 
of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, 
up to the value stated in your policy schedule. 
KGMs engineer valued the van at £18,000, however it offered to pay £10,000 as this was 
the value stated in the policy schedule. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it 
resulted in a fair outcome for Mrs K. I say this because, KGM hasnt shown that the 
ramifications of the value stated in the policy schedule was highlighted and made clear to 
Mrs K when she took out the policy. So, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for KGM to 
have relied on this to limit its offer to her.
Furthermore, the policy provides for the market value of the van. Ultimately, KGM needs to 
cover the loss and the cost of replacing Mrs Ks van, and I dont think she would have been 
able to replace her van for the £10,000 it originally offered her. So, I dont think its initial offer 
was fair. 
Mrs K didnt accept KGMs initial offer and she says she didnt think it would continue to deal 
with the claim if the van was released to it. I think thats a reasonable concern, especially as I can see KGM wasnt willing to amend its offer at the time. Had it offered a fair settlement 
initially, I think it could have settled the claim quicker and mitigated against the additional 
storage costs incurred. And as I said above, I would expect KGM to cover the storage costs 
as part of the claim it settles for Mrs K. So, I dont think it is fair or reasonable for KGM to 
hold Mrs K responsible for these costs.
I must also highlight that while I accept Mrs K wouldnt allow it to release the van, the garage 
informed KGM it wouldnt release it until its costs had been settled. As neither party was 
taking responsibility for paying the additional costs, even if Mrs K gave her permission for the 
van to be moved, I think its unlikely the garage would have released the vehicle to KGM any 
sooner.
Water ingress damage
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy state: If you have Comprehensive cover, it may 
be suitable for your vehicle to be repaired through our own Approved Repairer Network.  
Alternatively, you may nominate your own repairer.
KGMs notes state that Mrs Ks van was repairable, but the repair work wasnt something its 
approved repairers would do. And it asked Mrs K to find a garage to provide the estimate for 
the repair work, which she did. KGM says Mrs K chose to use her own repairers but I dont 
agree, I cant see that it gave Mrs K a choice here. Had it done, I think its likely Mrs K would 
have opted to use a KGM approved repairer. I would expect it to take responsibility for any 
damage caused to her van while in the care of an approved repairer in its network or any 
firm acting as its agents. So, while I accept KGM isnt directly liable for any damage caused 
by Mrs Ks garage, but as it was at its request that she used an alternative repairer, I think 
its fair it takes responsibility for this. 
The repair garage provided an estimate for the repair work which was a significant amount 
above the value of the van. KGMs engineers subsequently deemed the van a total loss and 
I think thats reasonable. 
Ive looked at the estimate the garage provided. The estimated costs for the roof of the van 
(which is what it says was damaged in the incident) totals approximately £8,500. As it valued 
the van at £18,000, this works out to 47% of the vans value. The estimate shows it would 
cost approximately £25,000 to repair the damage to the interior of the van caused by water 
ingress. So, I think the van would likely have been economical to repair had it not been for 
the further damage it incurred in storage. 
Usually when things go wrong, we expect an insurer to put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in had things gone as they should have. But I think its more difficult to 
do so here because of the level of damage Mrs Ks van sustained which resulted in it being 
written off.
Mrs K says she wanted to keep her van and I can see she informed KGM of this, but she 
later conceded and agreed to the full settlement. Even if the van wasnt written off and had 
been economical to repair, by it paying the pre-accident value, KGM would in effect have 
paid the cost of replacing it with a similar one. So, I dont think Mrs K has lost out financially. 
While its unfortunate the van was deemed a total loss, Im satisfied its offered the next best 
alternative and I think thats fair. However, I think KGM needs to compensate Mrs K for the 
upset the situation caused her.
Customer service
Mrs K says it didnt carry out a physical inspection of the van, but I dont think it needed to. It is for KGM to decide whether a physical inspection by its engineers is needed. Its engineers 
reviewed photographs of the van and reviewed the estimate it received from the garage who 
inspected the car. It said the van was uneconomical to repair, and considering the estimated 
repair costs was £40,000, I dont think what it said was unreasonable. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy and Im satisfied it didnt provide for 
a courtesy car. So, I dont find KGM was required to supply her with one, but I think it 
needed to have told her this when she asked. Its notes show Mrs K was promised a phone 
call to discuss the courtesy car, but this didnt happen, and I think this will have been 
frustrating.
Mrs K first reported the incident on 15 May 2022, but KGM didnt ask her to find her own 
repairers until 10 days later. It phoned the garage on 25 May 2022 to confirm they were 
happy to accept the van on their site and to provide an estimate for the work. But the van 
wasnt delivered to the garage until 31 May 2022, which is almost a week later. KGM didnt 
ask Mrs K for the estimate until around three weeks later, and I cant see it attempted to get 
an update regarding the estimate before this date. 
I can see KGM sent the garage an email on 31 May 2022 in which it asked it for an estimate 
for the repair work. While Im satisfied it made it clear to the garage that it required an 
estimate. I find there were some avoidable delays here and I think KGM could have asked 
for an update from the garage sooner than it did. So, I think its fair it compensates Mrs K for 
the delays caused. 
I think it would have been upsetting for Mrs K to learn of the further damage to the van while 
it was in storage with the garage. I also find KGMs overall handling of the settlement of the 
claim could have been better. Mrs K says once she raised her complaint, it didnt respond to 
her emails regarding the claim. I think its also important to highlight KGM didnt increase its 
offer until Mrs K involved her local MP, and I think this would have been an additional 
inconvenience to her. 
In light of all this, I intend to tell KGM to pay Mrs K £300 in compensation. I think this is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience it caused and for any additional costs she 
may have incurred due to the delays. It should pay the £18,000 it agreed to in settlement of 
the claim, less the policy excess. Mrs K says its yet to pay the claim, so I require it to pay 8% 
simple interest per annum on the settlement amount it pays from the date of the claim until 
payment is made. If any part of the settlement has been paid, then it should pay the 8% 
simple interest from the date of its initial payment until the increased payment is made
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K accepted my provisional decision, and KGM did not respond with any comments. So, 
as neither party provided additional information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said provisionally.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I require KGM 
Underwriting Services Limited to: 
Settle Mrs Ks claim by paying the agreed valuation of £18,000 less the policy 
excess. It should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount it pays her from the date 
of the claim until the settlement payment is made to her. If any part of the settlement 
has been paid, then it should pay the 8% simple interest from the date of its initial 
payment until the increased payment is made.*
It should also pay £300 in compensation.
*If KGM Underwriting Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman