DRN-3951707
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt reimbursed him after he 
fell victim to an investment scam.
Background
In 2017, Mr F fell victim to an investment scam. A friend recommended he put his money in 
a betting syndicate. He was told that he could double his investment within a year and that 
this would be without any risk to his upfront capital.
He was persuaded it was genuine because there were multiple testimonials from people who 
had earned generous returns from the syndicate. In 2019, the underlying reality of the 
syndicate was revealed. The company running it became insolvent and in May 2019, a court 
order was issued to wind up the company. The director of the company is now personally 
bankrupt and, as I understand it, the company owes over £50 million to its investors.
Mr F began investing in March 2017. He made six payments between then and May 2018 
and the total value of the funds he transferred was £28,000. Once he realised that hed fallen 
victim to a scam, Halifax was notified. It investigated but didnt agree to reimburse him. It 
didnt think that the payments were so unusual that it ought to have intervened to question 
them with Mr F. It also pointed out that the payments predated the introduction of the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and so its 
provisions didnt apply.
Unhappy with the response from Halifax, Mr F referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that, while Halifax 
was expected to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that might 
have been fraudulent, she didnt think that these payments were out of character. There 
were several payments of a similar size around the same time as the scam payments. As a 
result, Halifax hadnt done anything wrong by not intervening.
Mr Fs representatives responded and pointed out that, although there were similar sized 
payments, these had features that meant they shouldnt be taken into account when 
assessing the fraud risk of the payments he made to the syndicate. Because no agreement 
was reached between the parties, the case was passed to me to consider and come to a 
final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Mr F is generally liable for payments that hes authorised. 
Its common ground between the parties that these six payments were authorised and so 
Mr F is presumed liable at first instance.
All of these payments were made prior to the introduction of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code and so it doesnt apply here. However, good industry practice required 
the bank to be on the lookout for transactions that were unusual or out of character such that 
they might demonstrate a fraud risk. On spotting such a risk, Id expect it to take steps to 
protect its customer from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.
Halifax says that there wasnt any clear indication of fraud risk from the activity on Mr Fs 
account. Im not entirely persuaded by that argument. Although there were other payments 
around the same time that were of a similar or greater value, these were obviously of lower 
risk  for example, one such payment was a debit card payment Mr F made to his mortgage 
provider. Several others were regular transfers he made to his company bank account.
I dont think these have the same risk profile as a £5,000 payment made to a new payee. I 
think the first payment Mr F made required the bank to take some action to protect him. 
However, that doesnt automatically mean his case should be upheld. It isnt enough to 
identify that the bank ought to have intervened  I must be persuaded that its failure to 
intervene caused Mr Fs loss. I emailed his representative to explain my concerns:
We know now, with the benefit of hindsight, that this was likely a fraudulent 
operation. The man running the betting syndicate appears to have been running a 
Ponzi scheme  paying out winnings to existing clients by drawing on funds provided 
by newer ones. The problem is that none of that wouldve been apparent when [Mr F] 
started investing in 2017. There was no negative information about the company or 
owner online. It wasnt until 2019 when the director filed for bankruptcy that negative 
details about the company became available. This isnt particularly surprising - by 
their very nature, Ponzi schemes dont tend to look like scams until the point that they 
fail.
I dont think the bank wouldve had any reasonable grounds in 2017 to suspect that 
this was a scam. Clearly investing money in a betting syndicate is high risk, when 
compared with a conventional investment. [Mr F] must surely have been aware of 
that at the time. It seems like the fact that his acquaintance had earned good returns 
persuaded him this was a reasonable course of action to pursue. And in any event, it 
wasnt the banks responsibility to give [Mr F] advice on how to manage his money, 
just to take reasonable steps to protect him from a clear fraud risk.
Mr Fs representatives responded with several points and drew reference to a different case 
which also concerned a loss to a betting syndicate, but which was resolved in its clients 
favour. It noted that the Financial Conduct Authority issued a warning in 2016 about the 
problems posed by Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). Although such 
schemes are not unlawful, their promotion is a regulated activity. The operator of the betting 
syndicate was clearly not regulated by the FCA for those purposes.
Ive considered these further representations carefully and Im not persuaded to depart from 
the position I set out in my earlier email. I cant know for certain if the betting syndicate would 
meet the regulators definition of a UCIS  more would need to be known about the way it 
operated. Nonetheless, I accept that its possible it did and, if so, the operator of the 
syndicate will have failed to comply with the FCAs rules regarding their promotion. 
However, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to expect an employee of the bank 
to make the connection between a betting syndicate and a UCIS in a short exploratory 
conversation. Even if the bank did make that connection, I dont think it couldve framed any 
warning to him in such a way that it wouldve prevented him from making the payments. 
The information would not have been enough for it to have definitively warned that Mr F was 
transferring his money to a fraudster. And I think if it had accurately summarised the concerns (i.e. that the betting syndicate could be considered a UCIS and that such schemes 
cant be promoted by anyone without FCA authorisation) I think this wouldve seemed like an 
obscure observation and would be unlikely to have prevented Mr F from going ahead, 
particularly in view of the very generous returns his friend had already earned and that the 
company seemed to be, broadly speaking, operating legitimately. 
Ive also considered the other case Mr Fs representatives drew my attention to. Every case 
that is referred to this service is decided on its own merits. Despite that, the facts of Mr Fs 
case are quite distinguishable for several reasons, not least the fact that the scheme Mr F 
thought he was investing in didnt claim to rely on unlawfully obtained inside information from 
individuals working in the horse-racing industry.
Overall, while I think the bank ought to have intervened and discussed the payments with 
him, Im not persuaded that its failure to do so caused Mr Fs loss because I dont find that 
the bank wouldve had good grounds for being concerned that Mr F was falling victim to a 
scam.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman