DRN-2445892
The complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr C took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 2000. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it. 
Mr C increased the cover under his policy when he took out further advances in December 
2002, July 2003, September 2003 and February 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr C had to agree to take it out. Mr C 
says he was told the PPI was essential to be approved for the mortgage. I cant know what 
was said or how the PPI was presented, so I have considered Mr Cs comments carefully 
and looked at the available paperwork from the sales.
On his mortgage application form Mr C indicated that he wanted PPI, and the options to 
select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. He then completed a separate PPI 
application form. Similarly on his further advance application forms the options were given to 
select or decline PPI and Mr C indicated that he wanted the cover. Again, he completed 
separate application forms and direct debit mandates for the PPI. I can find nothing on any 
of these forms that I think could reasonably have led Mr C to believe the PPI was mandatory.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr Cs comments are his honest recollections of the sales, I also have to
take into account how long ago they were, and what the documentary evidence from the 
sales show. Overall, on balance, I think for each sale Lloyds made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Mr C agreed to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr C says he
was entitled to six months sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work
benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also
gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr C said had around £3,600 in savings but 
the PPI would have allowed him to use these for other living expenses whilst not working, or 
to keep them intact for his future needs. He also said his parents would have helped. But 
thats not suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Cs circumstances were such at the time he took out 
the further advances that the PPI was no longer suitable for him. 
Mr C borrowed large sums over a long period, secured on his home. So the effects of
not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI
would have been useful for Mr C if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr C all the information he needed before deciding to buy
PPI. I dont know when the costs were first made clear, but the cover was reasonably priced 
for the benefits it offered and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed 
out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve 
changed his mind about buying it.
Ive also thought carefully about the points Mr C raised in response to the adjudicators view, 
but they dont change my conclusion. Ill explain why.
Mr C says he told the bank about a change to his circumstances in January 2002 and was 
told to continue paying for the PPI. But this doesnt affect my assessment as its not relevant 
to his circumstances at the date of any of the sales. This complaint only considers what 
happened at the time of the sales, not any ongoing policy management issues during the 
term of the cover. If Mr C wants to pursue this further, he must first complain to the bank so it 
can respond. He can of course bring the complaint to us if he is not happy with the response.
Our adjudicator has already confirmed that his probationary period in 2003 didnt make him 
ineligible for the policy. And finally, I cant consider his point that the increased borrowing 
should have been indicative of someone with financial difficulties as part of this complaint. If 
he feels the loans given were not affordable for him, he should complain to the bank. Again, 
he can bring the complaint to us if he is not happy with the banks response.
It follows I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problem with these sales.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman