DRN-2403450
The complaint
Mr E says Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) was unreasonable in closing his Stocks 
and Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) due to his United States (US) tax payer 
status; that HSDL did so with poor notice to him; and that HSDL did so as an act of 
discrimination (direct discrimination) against him on the grounds of race (his US nationality).
What happened
Mr E submits, mainly, as follows:
He received an email from HSDL on 19 September 2019. [A copy has been shared 
with this service, it refers to previous correspondence sent to him on 9 September; to 
HSDL no longer being in a position to  provide the appropriate level of service  
to him in relation to his ISA and because of his US tax payer status; to notice of his 
options (to clarify, with evidence, if he was not a US tax payer, or to transfer his 
ISA/shares to another provider, or to liquidate the ISA and close it himself, or to gift 
his shares and close the ISA himself); and to notice that essentially said if he did not 
exercise an option by 21 October his ISA will be liquidated by HSDL and closed.]
He is aware that HSDLs decision relates to the tax reporting obligations it had under 
the United Kingdoms Treaty with the US, and with regards to the US Foreign 
Account Tax Compliance Act 2010 (FATCA), whereby it had to provide particular tax 
reporting for US tax payer account holders to HMRC (in order for HMRC to pass 
such information to the US Internal Revenue Service).
Nevertheless, he considers that the reason behind HSDLs decision is his US 
nationality, that he was therefore subjected to less favourable treatment  that is, 
being deprived the ISA account service  because of his nationality, that such 
treatment amounts to direct race discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 (EA), 
and that nationality (in the category of race) is a protected characteristic.
There is an argument that HSDL undertook no extra responsibilities for him 
personally as a US tax payer  it gave him no tax advice and he undertook his own 
US tax reporting and payments  and that FATCA can also apply to non-US citizens 
who hold US securities; but there is also an argument, which he acknowledges, that 
 the administration of Share Dealing ISA accounts to US citizens is likely more 
problematic (and possibly more costly to Halifax) compared to non-US citizens. 
Nevertheless, it remains the case that the EA prohibits the direct race discrimination 
that HSDLs decision against him amounts to and a comparison can be made with 
any additional difficulty and costs a firm faces to make adjustments for disabled 
customers. Factors like costs and difficulty would not justify a firms refusal to give 
service to a disabled customer so the same should apply in his case.
He seeks recovery of a financial loss that arose from HSDLs liquidation and closure 
of his ISA, in addition to compensation for injury to feelings.
HSDL disputes the complaint. It says it made a reasonable and legitimate commercial 
decision to terminate accounts held by US tax payers because the scope of its International 
Trading facility was limited, in terms of Withholding Tax rates matters, and it concluded that it 
could no longer provide an appropriate level of service for such accounts. It also notes that 
its right to apply such account closures is reserved in the terms agreed for the accounts and 
that it gave Mr E more than the requisite one months notice, over the course of four notices 
it gave him about the closure of his ISA.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed with HSDLs position and, 
broadly, with its points. He concluded that the complaint should not be upheld, that any claim 
Mr E had under the EA would be for a court to address and that, overall, HSDL had complied 
with the regulators principle for firms (Principle 6) which requires customers to be treated 
fairly.
Mr E disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In the main and 
with regards to the complaint issues, he said:
HSDLs compliance with the terms for the account does not address its culpability for 
breaching the EA by directly discriminating against him on the grounds of his 
nationality/race.
He only received HSDLs email of 19 September, he did not receive the other three 
notices it claims to have sent. In addition, the unprofessional presentation of the 
email (and its contents) made it arguably inadequate.
The investigator was wrong to say HSDL had refunded him all commissions and 
foreign exchange charges after the ISA closure. It refunded only the sale 
commissions and exchange charges but not the purchase commissions and 
exchange charges.
The EAs prohibition of race discrimination in the context of service provision 
captures his claim against HSDL. This is the feature of his complaint.
HSDLs claim about no longer being able to provide an appropriate level of service to 
his ISA does not withstand scrutiny, given that the claim has not been explained and 
given that it had serviced the ISA in the period (years) before its decision in 2019 and 
there was no material legal or regulatory changes at the time to prompt its decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Closure of Mr Es ISA
As has been previously noted  by HSDL and the investigator  there is an express clause in 
the terms agreed for Mr Es ISA account which said HSDL was entitled to  close any 
account at any time by giving one months notice  Mr E confirms that he received HSDLs 
email notice of 19 September. That gave him a little over a months notice of the deadline of 
21 October, by which HSDL was to proceed to liquidate and close his ISA if he had not 
exercised one of the available options. 
I am not persuaded that it is necessary to explore whether (or not) the other three notices 
that HSDL has referred to were sent to, and/or received by, Mr E. The email of 19 
September satisfied the contractual requirement for notice and he received it.
I do not consider that the email of 19 September was inadequate. Its title read  Urgent  
We will be closing your Halifax Share Dealing Account in 4 weeks. That was a reasonable 
clear message. The same clarity existed in the four options given within the emails contents 
and in the concluding notice that the account will be liquidated and closed if no action was 
taken by 21 October. Those recipients who wanted more information were invited, within the 
email, to contact HSDL through their online accounts or on a prescribed telephone number. Overall, I am satisfied that proper and meaningful notice about the closure of his ISA was 
given to Mr E within this email. 
HSDLs decision has been reasoned. It appears to have lacked the capacity or facility to 
continue to service ISA accounts for US tax payer account holders and it applied this 
decision to all accounts that fitted the relevant description. Mr Es suggestion  or assertion  
against this is somewhat defeated by his own acknowledgment, as I quoted above, that the 
administration of ISAs for US tax payers was likely to have been more problematic and 
costly for HSDL. 
HSDL appears to have transparently declared that it was no longer capable of delivering a 
particular service  the service to ISAs held by US tax payers. Overall and on balance, I am 
not persuaded that it was wrong to have terminated the relevant service in such a context. 
The argument could be made that it would have been unreasonable for it to do the opposite 
and to continue a service it knew it could not deliver (or could not properly deliver). It is 
arguably irrelevant to say regulations and laws related to the service had not changed at the 
time. The key points appear to be that HSDLs reasonable commercial considerations 
changed, as a result of that it terminated the service and it was entitled to do so. 
Overall, on balance and in isolation, HSDL was not wrong to have liquidated and closed     
Mr Es ISA. It appears that he had not exercised any of the four applicable options by the 
deadline of 21 October; he had slightly over a months notice of the need to do that; and he 
had the same notice that his ISA would be liquidated and closed if he did nothing.
Race Discrimination
I understand the investigators finding that Mr Es claim in this respect is better or best suited 
to the courts. However, Mr E has clearly stated that this is the feature of his complaint. 
Whilst I endorse the investigators application of the regulators Principle 6 (a firms 
obligation to treat customers fairly) to this matter and his conclusion, it might help Mr Es 
understanding to note the following observations:
As Mr E says, the EA prohibits discrimination in the context of service provision  
section 29 does that. The EA also defines the protected characteristic of race as 
being inclusive of nationality and national origins  section 9 does that.
A number of prohibited acts are listed in the EA. Mr E says the provisions for direct 
discrimination (direct race discrimination in his case) apply to his claim. As the 
investigator said, such a claim is for the courts to address, but in the context of the 
present complaint and this decision, I disagree. Those provisions refer to 
discrimination because of the relevant protected characteristic. Mr E therefore 
needs to show that the liquidation and closure of his ISA happened because he is an 
American  that is, because of his nationality. He has not shown this. Available 
evidence is that the service termination that, alongside his inaction, led to the 
liquidation and closure of his ISA was based on an ISA holders US tax payer status. 
The service withdrawal in his case was because of his tax paying status in the US  
not directly and only because he is an American. I also note his acceptance that the 
effects of FATCA could apply to non-US citizens who hold US securities. 
If, instead, he considers that the EAs provisions for indirect discrimination apply to 
his claim, I consider that an alternative which has not necessarily been established. 
The EA provides that indirect discrimination can only be concluded where it cannot 
be shown that the conduct in question was a  proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim  section 19 (2) (d). On balance, and as I addressed above, I 
consider that HSDL made a reasonable and legitimate commercial decision to 
withdraw its service for ISAs held by US tax payers; and, as I also noted above, the 
relevant submission from Mr E about problems and costs in that service would suggest he recognises an argument in favour of HSDL in this respect. Its reasonable 
and legitimate commercial concerns, and decision, about this would potentially be, in 
reverse, HSDLs proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim under the EA.
Mr Es comparison point about a firms duty to make adjustments for disabled 
customers is not supported by the EA. The EAs provisions for reasonable 
adjustments exist only for the protected characteristic of disability, it does not apply 
to race or any of the other protected characteristics.
Mr Es claims for compensation
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint, so it follows that the matter of compensation is redundant.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman