DRN-3579684
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has declined a claim he made 
under his appliance breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has a breakdown policy for his dishwasher with D&G. In February 2022 he reported a 
fault with his dishwasher. An engineer attended and replaced the tablet dispenser, and this 
resolved the fault.
However, a week later, further faults occurred with the dishwasher and this was reported to 
D&G. An engineer attended and at the visit Mr B told them hed washed paintbrushes and 
rollers in the dishwasher previously.
The engineer said the dishwasher had been misused. D&G declined the claim on the basis 
Mr B hadnt used it in accordance with manufacturer recommendations, which was a breach 
of the policy terms, and they said this had caused the issues.
However, D&G offered Mr B £15 compensation in total for not calling Mr B back when he 
raised a complaint and for the service provided. Mr B remained unhappy and approached 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things and initially didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Mr B had breached the policy terms, and the engineer had said the damage had been 
caused by Mr B washing paintbrushes and rollers in the dishwasher. So, she said D&G 
hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim. She said D&G had paid £15 compensation and 
that was fair in the circumstances.
However, our investigator re-reviewed things and her view of what was fair and reasonable 
changed. She said that there wasnt any evidence to show that washing paintbrushes and 
rollers had actually caused the fault as the engineer hadnt inspected the dishwasher, 
instead theyd assumed that was the cause.
So, the investigator recommended that D&G should inspect the appliance to determine the 
actual cause of the fault, and to see if this was something covered by the policy. And she 
said D&G should pay Mr B an additional £35 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, taking the total to £50.
D&G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that an engineer first attended after a reported fault in February 2022. They 
replaced the tablet dispenser and the dishwasher continued working.
A week later, another fault was reported, which indicated there was a blockage and draining 
issues.
Mr B told the engineer that attended that he had previously washed paintbrushes and rollers 
in the dishwasher. D&G said the machine hadnt been used in accordance with the 
manufacturer guidelines and this has caused the issues. D&G subsequently declined the 
claim on basis of the following conditions and exclusions in the policy:
Important conditions
Your product must have been installed, maintained and used in accordance with 
the manufacturers instructions.
Exclusions
We shall not be liable for:
claims where you have breached the important conditions or failed to comply with 
your responsibilities set out in the policy
I agree with D&Gs view that washing paintbrushes and rollers in a dishwasher isnt in line 
with the manufacturers intention for Mr Bs appliance. And if that was the actual cause of the 
damage or fault with the dishwasher, then it might have been reasonable for D&G to rely on 
the policy exclusion and decline the claim on this basis. But the incorrect use of the machine 
by washing paintbrushes and rollers would need to be material to the loss/fault that occurred 
to fairly apply that exclusion.
However, the engineer that attended didnt actually inspect the appliance to determine the 
cause of the fault. Theyve solely reached their conclusion based on Mr B telling them he 
washed paintbrushes and rollers in the appliance. But theyve not shown this is what actually 
caused the fault to occur. 
The fault could have been caused by the manner in which it was used and washing 
paintbrushes and rollers in it. But it also could be the result of a number of different things, 
given it is a suspected blockage and drainage issue. But because the engineer didnt 
actually inspect the appliance, the actual cause isnt known.
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for D&G to inspect the 
dishwasher to establish the actual cause of the fault and breakdown, and reconsider whether 
this is something covered, or excluded, under the terms of Mr Bs policy based on the actual 
determined cause.
I recognise that D&G has already paid Mr B £15 compensation for the service he received 
when he complained. But I think the engineer shouldve carried out an inspection of the 
actual cause when they visited, rather than making an assumption and D&G then relying on 
this to decline the claim. With this in mind, I think Mr B should be given a further £35 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused taking the total amount to £50.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Domestic & General Insurance 
Plc to:
Inspect Mr Bs dishwasher to determine the cause of the fault, and whether this is 
something covered under his policy
Pay Mr B a further £35 compensation taking the total amount to £50Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman