DRN-1716979
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Scottish Widows Limited unreasonably delayed the execution of some 
trading instructions relating to savings he held in a personal pension.
What happened
Mr Y holds pension savings in a personal pension with Scottish Widows. In August 2019 he 
called Scottish Widows to request that the majority of his pension savings were moved into a 
cash fund. Scottish Widows accepted that instruction and told Mr Y that the changes would 
be processed at the close of business on the next working day  as Mr Y called on a Friday 
morning, he was told the transactions would proceed at the close of business on the 
following Monday. Mr Y gave his agreement to proceed, although he expressed some 
surprise and disappointment about the delay to his changes.
Mr Y has complained that following a fall in the value of his holdings, he lost a considerable 
sum of money due to the delay in Scottish Widows completing his transfers. He doesnt think 
that a delay of that length is either fair, or in line with the terms and conditions applicable to 
his pension.
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ys complaint. She didnt think Scottish Widows 
had done anything wrong in terms of when the transaction was processed. She thought that 
the processing time was in line with the applicable terms and conditions and had been 
clearly explained to Mr Y before he gave his agreement to proceed. So she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr Y didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I have looked carefully at the submissions that have 
been made by Mr Y and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
I think it would be useful initially to reflect on the role of this Service. This Service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Instead this Service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. So, bearing that in mind, it isnt appropriate for me to interfere in 
the way a company chooses to run its business. I would consider whether any applicable 
terms or conditions are clear, and whether they have been reasonably applied to a set of 
circumstances. But I wouldnt generally make any judgement on how a business has chosen 
to run its operations.
Mr Y spoke to Scottish Widows to give his instructions early in the morning on Friday 
2 August 2019. His transaction was processed at the close of business on Monday 5 August. 
Scottish Widows says that its normal approach is to process instructions received before 
12pm on the following working day, and instructions received after 12pm would be 
processed two working days later.
I think the relevant terms and conditions that relate to the sort of transaction with 
Scottish Widows that Mr Y is complaining about  that is the exchange of one holding for 
another  say the following;
The Date of Exchange will be either the day after your request is received by us at 
our main administrative office or the following day as we reasonably choose, or such 
later date as your request may state
Whilst those terms dont specifically mention working days I think that meaning should 
reasonably be inferred. It is generally difficult, if not impossible, to trade these sorts of assets 
at a weekend. So I think, based on those terms and conditions, that it would be reasonable 
for Scottish Widows to complete a transaction that had been instructed on a Friday, on the 
following Monday or Tuesday.
I have listened carefully to a recording of the call during which Mr Y gave his trading 
instructions to Scottish Widows. I dont think there is any doubt from that call that Mr Y 
understood that the transactions wouldnt take place until the close of business on the 
following Monday. Mr Y repeated the information back to the advisor at the time, albeit with a 
degree of surprise or disappointment at the timing of the transactions.
I appreciate that Mr Y says he had no alternative but to ask Scottish Widows to complete 
these transactions. And I have no doubt that is the case given his view of the markets at that 
time. But I have also seen evidence that Scottish Widows has provided to show that Mr Y 
had also previously instructed a number of other transactions on the same basis  that is 
that they were completed the following working day. So if this issue had been of significant 
concern to Mr Y before these latest transactions he could have taken action to investigate 
whether it might be more appropriate to use an alternative provider for his pension savings.
I have also considered what Mr Y has said about it being reasonable to continue with a 
transaction that he thought unfair, whilst reserving the right to complain about it later. But 
I dont think I need to make any finding on that point since I think, based on what I said 
earlier, that Scottish Widows has acted entirely within its terms and conditions for a 
transaction of this nature.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr Y. He had identified a need to 
change his investment approach, and the time it took Scottish Widows to complete the 
transactions left him with a considerable loss. But I cannot conclude that loss is because of 
something that Scottish Widows did wrong. Scottish Widows acted in accordance with its 
published terms and conditions, and the information it gave to Mr Y before the transaction 
was agreed. I dont therefore think that Scottish Widows did anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman