DRN-3233409
The complaint
Mr T complains BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services 
(BMWFS) have treated him unfairly by continuing to pursue him for a balance on a hire 
purchase agreement which he had already paid.
What happened
Mr T entered a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a motor car in July 2018, which 
was due to last 30 months and therefore due to end in January 2021. The cash price listed 
on the agreement was £14,000 and Mr T paid a £1,000 deposit, so the agreement was for 
£13,000. Mr T was expected to make 29 monthly repayments of £301.41, followed by a final 
repayment (balloon payment) of £7,128.65 should he wish to keep the car.
Originally, Mr T made his monthly payments by direct debit. After September 2019 he paid 
by sending BMWFS cheques. BMWFS didnt receive a cheque from Mr T in April 2020 and 
on 21 May 2020 it received a request from him to defer repayments due to COVID-19. A 
three-month deferral was agreed, to end on 21 September 2020. No payments were 
registered on the account then until 17 November 2020 when a cheque of £1,277.36 was 
paid, then 10 December 2020 when BMWFS noted another cheque of £337.27 had been 
paid, leaving the balance at £1,241.50 in arrears at the end of 2020. BMWFS received 
another cheque for £337.27 from Mr T on 14 January 2021.
Mr T says he sent a cheque for the balloon payment of £7,128.65 to BMWFS on 21 January 
2021. It was signed for on 25 January 2021 but was not registered as a payment on the 
account. Mr T made no further payments and BMWFS began to send him notices telling him 
the account was falling into arrears. Mr T entered into correspondence with BMWFS over 
this, telling the company repeatedly that he had paid the balance by cheque so it was wrong 
of them to keep sending him notices. On 29 April 2021 BMWFS emailed Mr T to say it hadnt 
received the cheque and offered a bank transfer as an alternative means of payment. Mr T 
responded with the evidence the cheque had been signed for, to which BMWFS apologised 
and said they were unable to find the cheque. They suggested Mr T cancel the cheque if it 
had not left his bank and send BMWFS another one, or alternatively make a bank transfer. 
Mr T replied that as far as he was concerned he had made the payment, and made a 
complaint.
BMWFS replied to the complaint in July 2021. They accepted Mr T had sent a cheque by 
recorded delivery, but they hadnt cashed this and didnt have it. So the money was still in 
Mr Ts account and hadnt been paid to BMWFS, and it therefore hadnt been wrong to send 
him notices saying he was in arrears.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr T referred the matter to this service for an independent 
review, where it was looked into by an investigator. He didnt agree that it could be said that 
Mr T had made the payment in question. A cheque had been sent, but it hadnt been cashed 
and so no transfer of funds had taken place. There were a number of emails between Mr T 
and our investigator on this issue but ultimately no agreement could be reached and so the 
case has been passed to me to decide. During the course of correspondence with our 
investigator, Mr T also questioned why BMWFS were saying the outstanding balance was 
more than the £7,128.65 he claimed to have paid by cheque.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main question I have to answer in this case is quite a simple one. By sending a cheque 
of £7,128.65 to BMWFS, and obtaining confirmation that it had been signed for, did Mr T pay 
BMWFS £7,128.65?
As our investigator explained, a cheque is a written instruction from a person to their bank, to 
pay a named beneficiary a specific amount of money on demand. It is not a payment in itself. 
The beneficiary can present the cheque for payment, but this does not mean it will be 
honoured. If a cheque has been stopped or the payer has insufficient funds in their account 
for example, then their bank may decline to honour the cheque. It is not like sending 
someone cash.
The simple answer therefore, to the question above is that sending a cheque to someone, or 
a company, is not the same as paying them. Mr T did not send a payment of £7,128.65 to 
BMWFS, he sent a cheque which BMWFS could present for payment but with no guarantee 
it would be honoured. It doesnt appear BMWFS ever presented the cheque for payment, 
and they have been unable to find it, so it seems most likely they received and subsequently 
lost the cheque. Clearly, BMWFS shouldnt have lost Mr Ts cheque, but it doesnt mean his 
liability to pay the amount of £7,128.65 has disappeared along with the cheque. Or that it 
would be fair to say BMWFS should write off this amount because it lost the cheque. That 
would be obviously disproportionate.
Ive thought about the possibility that BMWFS presented the cheque for payment, received 
the funds but did not allocate them correctly to Mr Ts agreement. If this had happened then 
the money would have moved from Mr Ts bank account to BMWFSs bank account. Our 
investigator asked Mr T if the amount of money had left his bank account. Mr T replied that 
he had no evidence to suggest that the payment has not left the account. I dont think this 
was a satisfactory answer. If a payment had been made from Mr Ts account, there would be 
evidence of the payment leaving the account which should be simple to obtain. Mr T has not 
provided this evidence.
So where does this leave matters? BMWFS say they never presented a cheque for 
payment, no payment has been registered on Mr Ts hire purchase agreement, and no 
evidence has been provided to show the money has left Mr Ts bank account. The 
conclusion I have to make is that Mr T has not made a payment of £7,128.65 to his hire 
purchase agreement and so it was not wrong of BMWFS to send him notices informing him 
he was in arrears, or to continue requesting this amount from him.
Customer Service
BMWFS did initially tell Mr T that it hadnt received a cheque. This wasnt accurate but it 
apologised and corrected itself when Mr T provided the evidence of a signed-for receipt. It 
offered Mr T an alternative method for making payment  specifically it provided him with 
instructions for making a bank transfer. This was reasonable. It meant Mr T wouldnt need to 
pay for postage a second time. Ive thought about whether BMWFS should have offered to 
cover the cost of stopping the lost cheque, but it appears Mr Ts bank would not have 
charged for this service and so he wouldnt have been put to any expense. In the circumstances I think apologising and offering an alternative payment method went far 
enough.
Outstanding balance
Mr T has more recently queried the balance he is being quoted by BMWFS, which is higher 
than the £7,128.65 he said he had paid. This dispute over the balance didnt form a part of 
the complaint Mr T originally brought to us and so its not something I will make formal 
findings on. However, I observed Mr Ts outstanding balance was greater than £7,128.65 at 
the point he sent the cheque. In fact, he appeared to be several payments behind (perhaps 
as a result of the payments being deferred). It seems possible that this accounts for the 
higher than expected balance. Its also possible that, had the cheque been paid, a rebate of 
interest would have been applied to the account which would have brought the balance 
down further. However, as Ive said, I make no findings on this point.
Now that the dispute about Mr Ts cheque has been decided, I would suggest BMWFS 
breaks down and explains the outstanding balance for him so this is clear, and lets him know 
what options he has to repay what he owes. If there are further disputes about the balance 
which are unrelated to the cheque then Mr T would be able to make another complaint to 
BMWFS.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman