DRN-3229471
The complaint
Mr C complains that his Zopa Bank Limited account statements are inaccurate.
What happened
Mr C says his August 2021 Zopa credit card account statement is incorrect. He says the 
balance ought to be £280.47 and not £280.46. Mr C says the following months statements 
are also inaccurate by £0.01 and Zopa should ensure the statements are accurate. Mr C 
says Zopa should make changes to its systems and says the statements are legal 
documents which would be dismissed as evidence in court proceedings if not accurate.
Zopa says it calculates interest using eight decimal figures and rounds the figure which 
appears on the statement. It accepts that can result in a slight discrepancy in the statement.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Zopa had provide Mr C with an explanation for the interest calculation.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says the statements are not true and says they are a 
slap in the face for education.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Zopa has fairly explained to Mr C the reason, for what I think is a very slight 
difference, in the interest calculation. I dont think the difference of £0.01 has any impact on 
Mr C and can see that Zopas calculations mean that Mr C owes it £0.01 less than Mr C says 
he owes. We are not Zopas regulator and so its not our role to direct it to change its interest 
calculations or amend the information it records on its customers account statements. If 
Zopa wishes to round down an interest calculation, then Im satisfied that its entitled to do so 
when exercising its commercial judgement.
I appreciate Mr C says Zopas actions are an affront to education and that a court would 
dismiss the statements as evidence. Those are not matters I can fairly comment on.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman
