DRN-3032255
The complaint
Ms Ks complaint is about a claim she made on her buildings insurance policy with Society of 
Lloyds (SoL). She is unhappy that after delays and false promises to start repairs to her 
property, SoL then said it wouldnt do the repairs at all. In addition, the cash settlement it has 
offered doesnt cover the cost of underpinning the property or include VAT, and it has offered 
her no compensation for its poor administration of the claim.
What happened
Mrs K arranged an insurance policy with SoL in the spring of 2017. During that summer she 
noticed some cracks appearing around her home and made a claim to SoL in 
September 2017.
SoL instructed a firm of loss adjusters to investigate the claim. Following the loss adjuster 
inspecting the property, it was thought the problem was likely clay shrinkage subsidence 
caused by nearby trees. Further investigations were commissioned and by December 2017 
it had been confirmed the loss adjuster had been right about the cause of the damage, 
although it was thought leaking drains might also be contributing. At this point further 
information was needed  which trees were the cause  and monitoring of the property for 
movement was to be started. 
By February 2018 it had been determined that there were leaking drains and theyd been 
repaired. In addition, expert opinion concluded that the cause of the subsidence was a 
nearby oak tree. The expert initially said the tree should be removed, but later said that due 
to it having been there when the houses in the area were built, reduction of its size and 
ongoing management might be a better option. 
Shortly after the expert identified which tree was causing the problem, SoL completed 
searches to identify who was the owner of the property in which the tree was located. SoL 
wrote to the owner (hereafter referred to as the neighbour) toward the end of February 2018 
explaining the situation and asking for the removal of the tree. 
It wasnt until April 2018 that the neighbours son contacted SoL. It was explained to SoL that 
the property was tenanted and there were problems with the property and the tenant  that 
his mother wasnt receiving rent at that time. It was confirmed that she liked the tree and 
didnt want to remove it, but in any event, she didnt have the money to remove or reduce it; 
Mrs Ks insurer would need to fund any works that were done. 
SoL continued to write to the neighbour about removing the tree, but the matter didnt move 
forward. The neighbour asked that SoL speak to her insurer, but her insurer wouldnt discuss 
the matter with SoL. SoL continued to write to the neighbour about having the tree removed 
until September 2018. However, in August 2018, given the neighbour wasnt co-operating 
and the damage to Mrs Ks home was getting worse, the engineer recommended that SoL 
consider alternative ways of stabilising the property. 
Throughout this period Mrs Ks property continued to subside and the damage to the 
property got worse. During the spring and summer of 2018 Mrs K had difficulties opening her 
back door. She also raised concerns about the damage to the kitchen wall, as the household 
boiler was located on it. SoL completed some temporary repairs to the cracks and attempted 
to ease the back door.
During the autumn of 2018, further investigations were undertaken into alternative options to 
stabilise the property, including looking into underpinning the property and SoL paying for 
the removal of the tree. Mrs K also started raising concerns about the amount of time the 
claim was taking. A heave calculation was also discussed to assess if the removal of the tree 
would cause further damage to surrounding properties, including Mrs Ks.
In the middle of September 2018 the neighbour contacted SoL and it forwarded copies of the 
relevant documentation to her insurer. However, it was not until October 2018 that the 
neighbour agreed to the tree being removed. This was scheduled for December 2018, but 
SoL cancelled it. Although its not clear from the file, it would appear this may have been due 
to SoL waiting for confirmation that removing the tree wouldnt cause heave and additional 
damage to the surrounding properties. 
By this time Mrs K wanted her home repaired and decided SoL should be underpinning it in 
order to allow repairs. It was also highlighted that shed been told a heave assessment was 
going to be done, but she hadnt been contacted about it and was assuming this was no 
longer happening.
The tree was removed in February 2019. SoL apologised to Mrs K about the amount of time 
the claim was taking. It confirmed the new damage Mrs K had reported would be included in 
the repairs. It was also explained that now the tree had been removed, the clay would 
naturally rehydrate and it would monitor the situation to ensure stability before the repairs 
were done. 
In April 2019 a schedule of works was drawn up and put out to tender. SoL appointed a 
contractor and works were pencilled in for October 2019. During this process the engineer 
explained to Mrs K that as the tree had been removed, which would lead to structural 
stability, there was no need for the property to be underpinned. It was also confirmed that a 
certificate of structural adequacy would be issued upon completion of the repairs. 
Unfortunately, the property didnt stabilise in the timescale expected and it was still 
recovering during the latter part of 2019 and into 2020. The engineer explained this to Mrs K 
and he was hopeful the wet winter weather would finish that process. He also confirmed that 
until the property was stable, it was not sensible to complete the repairs. Mrs K complained 
about the timescales for the repairs. 
Shortly thereafter SoL opted to settle the repair part of the claim in cash, rather than 
completing repairs as it had previously said it would. Mrs K confirmed she didnt want a cash 
settlement and wanted SoL to repair. SoL confirmed that it was not willing to do so. 
In relation to the cash settlement offer made to Mrs K, she rejected it  she still wanted 
repairs done. However, if a cash settlement was to be made, she wasnt persuaded the offer 
was enough to do all the repairs she believed were needed, which included underpinning. 
There were various discussions about the amount that should be offered and by the middle 
of February 2020 SoL sent Mrs K a cheque for £42,000 and it told her the claim was closed 
as far as it was concerned. Mrs K acknowledged receipt of the cheque and confirmed that it 
wouldnt be cashed.
The loss adjuster issued an initial response to the complaint on SoLs behalf. It said it had 
responded to Mrs K earlier concerns about the delays that had occurred. It said when the new complaint had been received the matter had been referred to SoL and it had instructed 
that the claim was to be cash-settled. It also confirmed the policy excess would be waived. 
SoL later responded to Ms Ks complaint, but it didnt uphold it. SoL said it was its decision 
under the policy terms and conditions to decide how to settle a claim; by means of repair or 
paying in cash. SoL had decided to cash settle the claim and it was satisfied it was able to 
do so. SoL acknowledged that the claim had taken a long time to reach its conclusion, but 
said subsidence claims are complex and often involve lengthy and inconvenient 
investigations. It didnt accept that it had done anything wrong in the course of the claim or 
any unnecessary delays had been caused. 
Mrs K didnt believe SoL had addressed her complaint and she asked this service to 
consider it. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it 
be upheld. 
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Her representative commented that the 
offer of settlement didnt reflect the true cost of the repair as it didnt include VAT. It said that 
this was not acceptable as the insurers own contractors quotations were all subject to VAT. 
As such, it considered the settlement should be increased by at least 20%. 
Our investigator explained why VAT wouldnt be paid until it was proved that it had been 
incurred. Mrs K remained unhappy. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the 
complaint should be passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2021 setting out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below are excerpts. 
I believe it would be appropriate to explain an insurers obligations in relation to a 
subsidence claim. Under the terms and conditions of an insurance policy, an insurer is only 
required to repair the damage caused by an insured event. So technically, all the policy 
would require of SoL is to repair the cracks in the above ground structure (superstructure) of 
the property. However, the insurer is also required to provide a lasting repair. This means in 
real terms the insurer needs to stop the subsidence before it can repair the superstructure, 
or the repairs will fail quickly thereafter. It will only be required to complete structural 
stabilisation works (such as underpinning) if there is progressive movement in the property 
that cant be stopped by other means. The insurer is not expected to complete preventative 
works, designed to stop any possibility of movement in the future.
I would also explain that most buildings will move slightly throughout the year due to 
seasonal changes in the ground beneath the foundations. This is called seasonal movement 
and because the amount of movement is small and not long-standing (there will be 
movement down and back up again), it doesnt cause damage to the fabric of the building or 
its foundations. This type of movement is normal and doesnt require the building to be 
structurally reinforced below ground level. Indeed, doing so when its not needed can create 
problems of its own.
When a claim is made for subsidence damage, the insurer will investigate its cause and 
assess whether the property is moving and, if it is, why. These investigations will often 
involve establishing the type of ground the property has been built on, whether there is 
vegetation nearby and if there are any faults with the local drainage system. This is to 
establish what the cause of the subsidence is/was. Level monitoring will also often be done 
to establish if the property is moving. If a property is moving, the insurer will carry out works 
to stop the movement. These works wont necessarily involve making alterations to the 
structure of the property (such as underpinning). Often subsidence will be caused by an 
external factor, such as vegetation dehydrating clay soils or leaking drains washing away small particles from the soil. If the external factor is removed, then the subsidence will 
usually stop, and that is all the insurer is required to do in such circumstances. 
I note that SoL asked for quotes for underpinning the property when it wasnt clear that it 
would be able to stop the movement by the removal of the tree. However, the tree was 
removed. This should allow the property to stabilise and given the consistent upward 
movement recorded in the monitoring reports after the tree was removed, the subsidence 
had clearly stopped and the ground was recovering. As such, at the time the complaint was 
referred to this service, there was no need for additional stabilisation works to be done.  
Unfortunately, there was a lot of movement in Mrs Ks home and this means there was a 
high degree of dehydration to the ground beneath the foundations. It can take a notable 
amount of time for ground to rehydrate and it tends to predominantly happen over the winter 
months. So while it may have seemed that SoL wasnt doing anything for a long period of 
time after the tree was removed, there were reasons for this. If a property is repaired and 
then a significant amount of recovery happens, as would be expected at Mrs Ks home, 
additional damage can be caused. In general, where there is evidence of a continued 
recovery, it wouldnt be appropriate for an insurer to repair a property, so I cant fault SoL for 
not moving to repair immediately after the tree was removed. Nor for not doing so when it 
had initially anticipated doing so, as the property was still recovering.
I note that the cost of a form of underpinning was included in the cash settlement offered to 
Mrs K, but I see no reason for it to have been, as underpinning didnt appear to be 
necessary at that time. I believe this inclusion may have caused some confusion, especially 
in light of the fact the engineer had previously explained to Mrs K that her home didnt need 
underpinning. 
Mrs Ks main point of complaint is that she wants SoL to complete the repairs to her home, 
as it indicated it would, but it is now unwilling to do. I would explain at this point that when an 
insurer commits to settling a claim by repairing a property, it is considered to have entered 
into a contract to repair, outside of the existing insurance contract. An insurer can only exit a 
contract to repair if the consumer consents to it doing so, or the consumer frustrates that 
contract. By this I mean that the consumers behaviour is such that it makes it impossible for 
the insurer to fulfil the contract it has entered into. 
In this case, SoL completed drainage repairs and removed the offending vegetation in order 
to stabilise the property. It then moved to source a contractor to complete the works on its 
behalf and appears to have appointed one. It is clear that SoL told Mrs K that it was going to 
repair her home. I am satisfied that by taking these actions SoL entered into a contract to 
repair Mrs Ks home. 
However, Sol later informed Mrs K that it would be cash-settling the claim. It is very clear 
that Mrs K didnt consent to this happening, so it would only be reasonable for SoL to have 
taken this action if Mrs K had effectively prevented it from repairing her home. Whilst Mrs K 
questioned SoL about the repairs it was going to complete, and appears to believe that the 
property should be underpinned, I dont consider this frustrated the contract to repair. 
Consumers questioning stability and wanting a property to be underpinned are very common 
questions and requests in subsidence cases and ones that SoL and its loss adjusters would 
have experience in dealing with. Nor do I consider complaining about the timescales 
involved in the complaint represent frustration of the contract. As such, I dont consider that 
SoL acted appropriately when it moved to cash-settle this claim. 
I would also comment that it is good industry practice for an insurer to repair a domestic 
property that has suffered subsidence, as it is such a technical area and getting the repairs 
right is essential. As such, I consider that, if it is confirmed that Mrs K didnt cash the settlement cheque, which SoL can easily do, SoL should complete repairs once the engineer 
is satisfied the property is stable. If Mrs K did cash the cheque, she would need to return the 
funds to SoL before repairs could commence. For clarity, once the engineer has confirmed 
the property is stable, underpinning wont be included in the repairs SoL will be completing.
There have been numerous comments made about the amount of the cash settlement, but 
as I have found that SoL should be repairing the property, I consider these questions fall 
away. I will now, therefore, consider the matter of the timescales involved in this claim. 
The claim was made in September 2017 and all seemed to go as would be expected with 
the investigations. However, progress on the claim stalled when it came to the tree works, as 
the neighbour was difficult to contact and agreement for the tree removal wasnt readily 
given. Indeed, it was confirmed as early as April 2018 that the neighbour couldnt afford to 
complete works to the tree, be that crown reduction or removal. 
When a claim is dependent on the actions of a third party, as was the case here, the insurer 
should move the claim forward in a constructive way in a timely fashion. If it cant obtain 
consent to remove vegetation in a reasonable period of time, it should move to looking at 
alternative options to stabilise a property. In this case, SoL knew in February 2018 that the 
tree needed to be worked on or removed. It was also aware within two months of knowing 
that, that the owner was a person who couldnt afford to do anything with the tree and didnt 
really want it removed completely. However, it was a further five months before SoL appears 
to have acted on this information and started looking at alternative ways to move the claim 
forward. I dont consider that was acceptable. 
It was shortly after this period of delay that the neighbour contacted SoL about the tree 
removal again. It would appear that agreement was given, if the removal was at SoLs 
expense, and works were scheduled for early December 2018. However, they were 
cancelled by SoL and delayed by around two months. This delay appears to have been for a 
good reason  for the heave assessment to be received. However, the engineer had 
recommended that this assessment be done several months earlier. Whilst a complicated 
assessment, I find it unlikely that it would have taken months for the relevant calculations to 
be completed. So again, this time period would appear to be an unnecessary delay.
Once the tree was removed, it would be normal for monitoring to continue and for the ground 
beneath the foundations to recover from the dehydrating effects of the tree. Had the tree 
been removed in December 2018, that recovery would have started at the beginning of 
winter, when significant rainfall would have been expected over a prolonged period. 
However, the tree removal was delayed until the end of winter, when there would still be 
some expected rainfall but not the prolonged period that would have been available with the 
earlier tree removal date.
I note that SoL started the preparation for repair a short time after the tree was removed. 
This was appropriate and it appears that SoL anticipated that the recovery of the ground 
under Mrs Ks home would have ended within six months of the tree being removed. 
However, as the engineer explained to Mrs K sometime later, the property needed to be 
given the chance to fully recover before the repairs were done. Unfortunately, in this case, 
given the amount of movement that had occurred, the property took longer than anticipated 
to recover. Indeed, the property was still experiencing upward movement throughout the 
wetter months at the end of 2019 and into 2020. As Ive said above, if the repairs were done 
before the property had fully recovered, there was the possibility of further damage purely 
because it had been repaired before it should have been. So although I can understand 
Mrs Ks frustration that the repairs werent done in 2019 after the trees were removed, the 
evidence shows that SoL was right to delay the repair. SoL waived the policy excess as compensation for Mrs Ks experiences during the claim. I 
have identified that there were around seven months of delays in the claim handling and the 
later delay in removing the tree may have meant the recovery took longer than it otherwise 
would have, thereby delaying the repairs. In addition, there is the upset that Mrs K has 
suffered because SoL reneged on its promise to repair her home. I have carefully 
considered all of these factors, and I consider, in addition to waiving the policy excess, SoL 
should pay Mrs K an additional £700.
I am satisfied that SoL entered into a contract to repair Mrs Ks home and should complete 
the repairs needed to her property. If Mrs K cashed the cheque SoL sent her, she will need 
to return those funds to SoL before repairs are started. 
In addition, SoL should waive the policy excess and pay Mrs K £700 compensation.
Ms K accepted my provisional decision.
SoL didnt accept my conclusions. It said that it hadnt entered into a contract to repair, it had 
simply sought quotes for the works. SoL said that a contract to repair is a concept that only 
applies once works begin, which is when insurers become liable for the total costs of the 
repair work. It was entitled to cash settle under the insurance policy terms and conditions 
and that is what it sought to do. This would not have prejudiced Ms Ks position. In addition, 
it pointed to the issues that have arisen, and Mrs Ks approach toward it, as the reason why 
it sought to cash settle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SoL has said it didnt enter into a contract to repair when it told Ms K that it would repair her 
home or when it appointed a contractor to do so. It explained that it didnt consider a contract 
to repair would exist until the contractor physically started work on Ms Ks home. I have 
considered this, but I cant agree. I am satisfied that in taking the actions SoL did, it entered 
into a contract to repair Ms Ks home. Indeed, even if I agreed with SoL that physical repairs 
needed to be started for a contract to repair to have been entered into, I would point out that 
SoL completed temporary repairs to the property while it was pursuing the mitigation works. 
In relation to SoLs comments about the reason it chose to cash settle when it did, I would 
refer it back to my consideration of this point in my provisional decision. It hasnt added 
anything to the argument and as such I remain satisfied that Ms Ks actions and questions 
were not enough to be considered to have frustrating the contract to repair.
Having considered SoLs further comments, my conclusions in this case have not changed. 
Putting things right
I am satisfied that SoL entered into a contract to repair Mrs Ks home and should complete 
the repairs needed to her property. If Mrs K cashed the cheque SoL sent her, she will need 
to return those funds to SoL before repairs are started. 
In addition, SoL should waive the policy excess and pay Mrs K £700 compensation.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to undertake the 
actions detailed above in putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman