DRN-2757140
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy about costs they incurred when a buy-to-let (BTL) property 
purchase fell through. They say National Westminster Bank Plc should have asked more 
questions as then it would have been clear the property wouldnt meet its lending criteria as 
it was set up as a House in Multiple Occupation (HMO).  
What happened
Mrs and Mr M had an existing BTL mortgage with NatWest and they redeemed the mortgage 
on 29 May 2019 when they sold the property. Theyd been told they had four months to 
complete on a new purchase if they wanted to port the product and reclaim all (or part) of the 
early repayment charge (ERC).
 
Mrs and Mr M found a property and applied for the BTL mortgage on 25 July 2019. After 
issues with Mrs and Mr Ms income were resolved, the valuation was instructed in August. 
The valuation was undertaken on 13 August and the surveyor noted that the property wasnt 
suitable security for the mortgage because The property is a house in multiple occupation 
and occupied by more than two unrelated households who pay rent and share amenities. 
As this didnt meet NatWests lending criteria the application was turned down. 
Mrs and Mr M complained to NatWest but this wasnt registered and their emails werent 
replied to. In response to Mrs and Mr Ms complaint, NatWest offered to refund the £442 
valuation fee in recognition of the poor service in dealing with the complaint, but it didnt 
uphold the underlying matters theyd complained about. 
Mrs and Mr M referred the complaint to us. They said they only sold their previous BTL as 
theyd been assured in late-2018/early-2019 that there would be no problem porting the 
mortgage. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint that Mrs and Mr M only sold their BTL property 
due to misinformation from NatWest. But she did think that NatWest should have asked 
questions about the nature of the property in the application call in July 2019 and had that 
been done Mrs and Mr M would have been told a few weeks sooner that the property wasnt 
suitable security for a NatWest mortgage. 
For that omission the investigator felt a further £200 compensation was fair for the trouble 
and upset that was caused. Mrs and Mr M didnt agree so it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr M have said they only sold their property because they were led to understand 
by NatWest in late-2018/early-2019 that porting would be a seamless transition of the 
mortgage, rather than them needing to apply for a whole new mortgage. 
Unfortunately, theres no record of those earlier calls. Mrs and Mr M said it is astonishing 
that NatWest cant find the calls and it should go back and look properly. As our investigator 
explained, NatWest searched its records using both Mrs M and Mr Ms mobile numbers and 
their landline number. Despite doing that for the months spanning the period Mrs and Mr M 
said, NatWest cant find any calls. 
Our investigator gave Mrs and Mr M three months to provide further information - such as 
another phone number they may have called from, or call records to show when the call(s) 
were made and from what number(s)  but nothing was forthcoming. That means there was 
nothing further NatWest could do to try to trace any earlier call. 
In any event, this complaint doesnt necessarily turn on those calls. I say this because even 
if Mrs and Mr M werent told specifically about the HMO exclusion in those earlier calls, I 
wouldnt say that was an error on NatWests part. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs and Mr Ms application didnt meet NatWests lending criteria. 
Mrs and Mr M say NatWest should have told them the types of properties it doesnt lend on. 
But its not as simple as that. In Mrs and Mr Ms case the mortgage was turned down 
because the property was unsuitable, but there are many other facets to NatWests lending 
criteria other than the property being an HMO which may affect an application. 
If NatWest was to go into all the property and occupancy types it didnt consider as suitable 
security, that means it should also go into all the other reasons why it might not lend. Thats 
just not reasonable, or indeed feasible. 
Mrs and Mr M said we were unaware it was an HMO as defined by NatWest and As far as 
we know it was not registered as an HMO as the estate agent had never mentioned this to 
us. 
I would assume Mrs and Mr M had viewed the property before putting in an offer to buy it. I 
would also have expected them to have asked questions (for example, about how it was 
currently rented out and for how much as part of their due-diligence over the potential rental 
yield they could expect) again before putting in an offer to buy it. It should have been 
apparent from either of those that this was a HMO property; and to be clear this isnt about 
what NatWest defines as a HMO, it is what it is legally defined as (information about that is 
available on the www.gov.uk website). 
NatWest had no responsibility to tell Mrs and Mr M about all the reasons a potential 
application might not be successful, of which there are many. For example, this application 
wasnt immediately accepted due to issues with Mrs and Mr Ms proof of income not tallying 
with what was declared, and then because NatWest had concerns that the proofs showed 
their incomes had fluctuated. Whilst NatWest agreed to proceed after receiving further 
information from their accountant, it is possible the underwriter may not have been happy 
with the explanation for the fluctuation and their incomes, and declined the application for 
that reason. Its unfortunate Mrs and Mr M were unaware that some lenders dont lend on HMOs, and it is 
unfortunate the estate agent didnt tell Mrs and Mr M that either. But even if we could trace 
an earlier call before Mrs and Mr M sold their previous property and that showed NatWest 
didnt specifically warn them about HMOs not being suitable, I cant hold NatWest liable for 
not asking about a scenario it would have no reason to suspect might become an issue here. 
A lender cant anticipate all the possible reasons why an application might be turned down 
and incorporate all of them into its documentation or questions. What it can do is make it 
clear that any application is subject to a satisfactory valuation and underwriting, and that 
simply accepting an application isnt a guarantee it will lend. 
But where I do think NatWest could have done more is when the application was made in 
July 2019. It is usual when an application is made for a lender to ask about the nature of the 
property being purchased, such as whether it is brick-built with a tiled roof. When asking 
about the potential rental income at that time NatWest could have asked about the nature of 
the rental agreement (eg whether it was rented out on anything other than an Assured 
Shorthold Tenancy to an unrelated third-party). Had that happened NatWest could have told 
Mrs and Mr M that the property wasnt suitable about four weeks sooner than it did. 
Mrs and Mr M have said NatWest didnt suggest an obvious solution, such as them buying 
the house without the existing tenancy agreement and tenants and instead letting it out on a 
non-HMO basis. But again, thats not something I would expect NatWest to propose. All 
NatWest had to do was consider the application Mrs and Mr M put forward, which is what it 
did and it declined it. 
It may be NatWest wouldnt have considered an application to buy it on a non-HMO basis 
without the property being converted back to a normal family home (that is, one - for 
example - without individual rooms with locks) and seeing that there was a sustainable rental 
demand for that sort of property. None of which Mrs and Mr M could do without first buying it, 
converting it back and renting it out. Under NatWests lending criteria it wont lend on HMO 
properties, or properties which may be classed as HMO. Even if the tenancies had been 
ended, the fact the property was still set up in a way that it could be used as an HMO and 
hadnt been rented out as a normal family home means it likely would still not have been 
considered suitable security by NatWest. 
Ive carefully considered whether I think Mrs and Mr M could have found another property to 
purchase, and get that purchase completed by 29 September 2019 (the four-month window 
they had to get a refund of the ERC), if theyd been told about the HMO restriction when they 
applied, rather than four weeks later. Having done so, Im not persuaded  on balance  of 
the likelihood that they would. 
Mrs and Mr M have told us that they spent months researching and viewing properties to find 
this property. The fact they didnt find this one until two months after theyd sold their 
previous property despite all that searching doesnt make me think it most likely that they 
would have found another to purchase and managed to get the purchase completed all 
within two months to meet that ERC refund deadline. As Mrs and Mr M are the ones bringing 
the complaint against NatWest, to uphold this part of the complaint I need to be persuaded 
that it is more likely than not that a replacement property could have been sourced and a 
purchase completed within those two months. Having considered everything, Im not 
persuaded it is more likely than not and so I cant uphold this part of the complaint. 
I agree with our investigator that Mrs and Mr M were put to some trouble by not being told 
when they applied that the property wasnt suitable. NatWest has already refunded the 
application and valuation fee, so theres nothing further for it to do there, and I agree with our 
investigator that a further £200 is fair compensation.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay £200 to Mrs 
and Mr M. I make no further order or award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman