DRN-2869272
The complaint
Miss F complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have declined her claim for treatment 
provided to her dog M.  
      
What happened
Miss F purchased a pet insurance policy from Allianz for her dog M on 14 December 2007. 
The policy was renewed every year and no claims were made until 2013, when Miss F made 
a claim for treatment for diarrhoea.  Following this claim, an exclusion was applied to the 
policy for Diarrhoea and conditions causing the clinical signs of diarrhoea from 28.04.14.
 
In May 2019, M was treated at the vet for diarrhoea which was eventually diagnosed as 
being related to food allergies. This settled and there were no further attendances at the vet 
for intestinal problems until June 2020. 
In December 2020 Miss F took M to the vets with a loss of appetite and loose stools. M was 
given a blood test and referred for a scan. A presumed diagnosis was given of inflammatory 
bowel disease, but tests were inconclusive. M was given steroid injections and showed 
some improvement. Miss F submitted a claim on 2 January 2021 for the treatment. 
However, unfortunately, M deteriorated and after a sudden decline on 12 January 2021, she 
was put to sleep. 
Allianz rejected Miss Fs claims. Initially she was told it was because the condition had 
started with diarrhoea, and the policy excluded conditions causing the clinical signs of 
diarrhoea from 2014 following the treatment in 2013.  
Miss F complained to Allianz that diarrhoea is a symptom of many conditions and the 
exclusion is unfair as the illness in 2013 wasnt linked to Ms illness in 2020. This was 
confirmed by Miss Fs vet. 
Miss F asked for the claim to be reassessed. Allianz contacted Miss Fs vet again for further 
information as part of the reassessment process and again declined the claim. 
Miss F submitted a complaint to us on 29 January 2021.  
Allianz issued a final response on 23 February 2021. They confirmed that the claim was 
rejected because the inflammatory bowel condition was first noted and treated on 20 May 
2019 and the information received from the treating vet was that the 2020 issues are likely to 
be related to the 2019 episode. As Miss Fs policy only covers a condition for 12 months 
from first symptoms, any claims after 20 May 2020 are excluded. 
Allianz did offer £75 compensation for Miss F being given incorrect information in January 
2021 when she was advised that the decline was linked to the diarrhoea in 2013. 
Miss F was unhappy with this outcome and she asked us to look into it.  
One of our investigators looked into Miss Fs complaint and he thought the outcome was fair.   
Miss F disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
In Miss Fs policy, the terms and conditions make it clear that it is time limited. In other 
words, each condition only has cover for a period of time after it is first noticed. In this case, 
cover is for 12 months. The policy says:
Your policy provides cover on a time limited basis. This means that each injury and
illness is only covered for 12 months, starting from the date the injury happened or 
the clinical signs of the illness were first noticed. After this time all cover for that injury 
or illness will stop. To continue to claim for the 12-month period you must keep your 
policy in force and continue to pay your premiums
I think this term is clear and that having held the same policy for 12 years, I think Miss F 
would have been aware of this term. 
I note that the start date for the 12-month period is the date on which clinical signs of illness 
were noticed, not when a diagnosis was made. This means that even if symptoms were not 
identified as related to a particular condition until later when a diagnosis is made, the clock 
has started running in terms of the cover.
The question in this case is then whether Allianz have acted fairly and reasonably by starting 
the 12 month period of cover from 20 May 2019, thereby excluding any treatment from 20 
May 2020. 
I have viewed Ms clinical records, and I can see that there was an attendance at the vets for 
diarrhoea on 20 May 2019 and a further attendance on 18 June 2019. Various medicines 
and changes to diet were tried to resolve the issue, but it was subsequently diagnosed as 
food allergy following testing. There is then no further attendances for intestinal issues until 1 
June 2020, followed then by 19 October, 10 December, and several more continuing until M 
was put down on 12 January 2021. 
On 19 December 2020 the vet notes that adv of the results of the spleen aspirate  
splenitis/splenic abscess is likely to originate from inflammation in another organ, most likely 
the GIT as they were also thickened on the scan. The high amylase is likely a chronic 
pancreatitis due to inflammation of the gut as well. Most likely overall due to IBD, poss as a 
result of chronic inflammation/irritation due to the food allergy.    
As part of the reassessment process, on 25 January 2021 Allianz asked Miss Fs vet 
whether the diarrhoea in 2019 was connected to the diarrhoea in 2020. Miss Fs vet 
responded. On review of the history and the diagnostics carried out at this time, it is likely 
that this episode is related to the current episode and it has been a longstanding issue  we 
diagnosed a food allergy which likely developed further to IBD/lymphoma hence causing the 
deterioration of the clinical signs. 
I find that in view of the clinical advice received from the treating vet in January, together 
with the contemporaneous note from 19 December 2020, Allianzs decision to treat the 12 months of cover as commencing on 20 May 2019 is reasonable, as this was the date on 
which the intestinal problems were first noticed, and they unfortunately continued and 
deteriorated from that point on.  
This means that cover would end on 20 May 2020, and the claim for the treatment in 
December 2020 and January 2021 was correctly declined.   
I note that in her response to our investigators view Miss F has commented that it is difficult 
to change insurer as a dog gets older as many insurance companies refuse to take on dogs 
after a certain age. I accept that changing insurer may not have been an option for Miss F, 
but unfortunately it doesnt make any difference to my decision.  
 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss F as she has lost a much-loved pet and 
has also incurred significant expense in trying to treat her in the last days of her life, but I 
hope that my explanation of the reasons for not upholding her complaint helps her to 
understand my decision.
  
My final decision
My decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc do not need to do anything further.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman