DRN-4306224
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, couldnt take payments he 
wanted to make to his credit card account.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr B called Halifax to pay the balance outstanding on his credit card but was 
unable to do because of an issue with Halifaxs payment system. Mr B wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
A few weeks later, in August 2022, Mr B was contacted by Halifax who apologised for what 
happened and offered £42 to Mr B for the trouble and upset hed incurred. But when Mr B 
tried to pay his credit card balance later that month, he was still unable to do so. The Halifax 
agent that Mr B was speaking with when he couldnt make the payment explained that 
someone from Halifax would call him about his unresolved complaint, but nobody did. 
The following month Mr B was again unable to pay his credit card balance, and his credit 
card was also declined on several occasions when he tried to use it. Exasperated by what 
was happening, and with Halifax apparently not re-considering his complaint, Mr B referred 
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Halifax and Mr B. Upon 
review, Halifax accepted that they hadnt reopened Mr Bs complaint when they should have 
done. Halifax also confirmed that the reason Mr Bs payments were being rejected was 
because of a mismatch between the details held for the credit card and the debit card that 
Mr B was attempting to make the payments from, and that while it had previously been the 
case that such mismatches could be overridden, changes to security protocols meant this 
was no longer the case.
Halifax therefore recommended that Mr B confirm that the name and address held on his 
Halifax credit card match that of the debit card hes using to make the payments. However, 
because of the poor service Mr B had experienced, Halifax offered to refund the interest 
charged on the account since 28 July 2022 and remove the adverse credit file reporting Mr B 
had incurred, as well as pay a further £200 compensation to Mr B.   
Our investigator felt Halifaxs offer was reasonable. But Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
There are two primary points of consideration regarding this complaint. The first is why Mr B 
couldnt make the payments that he wanted to make. And the second concerns the service 
Mr B received from Halifax surrounding his being unable to make the payments.
Regarding why Mr B couldnt make the payments, Halifax have confirmed that this is 
because of a mismatch between the details held for the credit card that Mr B was trying to 
make payments to, and the debit card that Mr B was attempting to make those payments 
from. This mismatch could be a difference in the name or address, or it could be a 
discrepancy in Mr Bs name so that its different on the two cards.
Halifax have also confirmed that it used to be the case that such mismatches could be 
manually overridden by the agent taking the payment over the phone, but that because of 
changes to their security protocols this is no longer the case. 
Its for a business such as Halifax to set its security protocols, and it isnt within the remit of 
this service to instruct a business to change them. And given that these protocols apply to all 
Halifax customers and not just to Mr B, I dont feel that Mr B has been treated unfairly by 
being subject to them.
Mr B doesnt believe that there is any mismatch between the two cards, and hes provided 
details of his name and address as listed on his bank account which he feels demonstrates 
this. However, the name and address details Mr B provided appears to have been for a 
different account to the one from which he tried to make the payments from. And as such, I 
dont feel that it does confirm that there is no mismatch between the account details of the 
two relevant accounts. And, given that Halifax have confirmed that the issue stems from 
such a mismatch, I feel its reasonable to conclude that this is most likely the case. 
Accordingly, if Mr B would like to make payments to the credit account from the debit card 
hes recently been unable to use, I can only encourage him to identify the mismatch that 
Halifax have confirmed is preventing this, and to make the necessary changes to rectify it. 
Regarding the service Mr B experienced when he raised his concerns about his inability to 
make payments from the debit card, Halifax have acknowledged that this wasnt to the 
standard that they aspire to. 
When a business accepts that it hasnt acted fairly, as Halifax have in this instance, it would 
generally be expected by this service that the business would look to take the steps 
necessary to return the complaint customer, as much as reasonably possible, to the position 
they should be in, had the unfair act never occurred. 
I think that Halifaxs offer to reimburse the interest accrued on the account because the 
payments werent made, and to remove the relevant adverse reporting from Mr Bs credit 
file, achieves this. And so, I wont be asking Halifax to take any additional action beyond this.
I also feel the offer of £200 further compensation by Halifax does fairly compensate Mr B for 
the trouble and upset hes incurred here. In taking this position Ive considered the frustration 
and inconvenience that Mr B has experienced, but also that there are several other channels 
available to Mr B to make the payments to his credit card, including by direct debit or by 
faster payment. And Ive also considered the general framework which this service uses 
when assessing compensation amounts  details of which are on this services website. And 
having taken all these factors into account, I feel that Halifaxs offer of a further £200 is fair. All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct Halifax to take the corrective action that theyve already offer to take.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Halifax must reimburse the interest thats accrued on Mr Bs account from 28 July 2022 and 
remove the adverse reporting from Mr Bs credit file from that same date, as they relate to 
the monthly payments Mr B was unable to make on his debit card.
No further reimbursements or amendments will be required from Halifax beyond these and it 
will be for Mr B to then ensure that payments are made to the credit account in line with his 
contractual obligations. 
Halifax must also make a payment of £200 to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman