DRN-3636806
The complaint
Mr Q complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) blocked his account.
What happened
RBS received a fraud report from another bank and blocked Mr Qs account. Mr Q contacted 
RBS and it wouldnt give him much information. A call was also terminated. Mr Q was unable 
to access money in his account and was told to borrow money off friends and family.
Mr Q was told he could visit a branch to access cash, but he went to a branch a few times 
and it wouldnt allow him to take money. Mr Q was able to access cash over the counter at 
times, but couldnt make payments to people he needed to pay.
Mr Q complained to RBS and it sent three final responses. In the first response it said a 
phone call had cut out due to technical reasons and he should have been able to draw cash 
at a branch. RBS said the fraud team didnt take calls but offered £100 for the inconvenience 
Mr Q had been caused.
The second response broadly repeated what was contained in the first. The third response 
explained regular payments were still debiting Mr Qs account but he couldnt send faster 
payments. RBS paid Mr Q £150 for the inconvenience and some poor communication.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Q brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Qs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought RBS was allowed to block Mr Qs account and it had given him a 
chance to explain the payment hed received. The investigator accepted RBS had provided 
some misinformation but felt the £150 it had paid was enough to compensate for this.
Mr Q explained hed been a customer for some considerable time and had been the victim of 
fraud. Mr Q had been turned down three times in branch when trying to access money and 
felt it wasnt possible the investigator had considered everything.
Mr Q asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen RBS fraud notes and Im satisfied a payment into Mr Qs account was raised as 
fraudulent. Because of this RBS blocked Mr Qs account.
RBS is allowed, under its terms and conditions, to block Mr Qs account. And looking at why 
RBS blocked Mr Qs account I think it was a reasonable decision to take. To protect Mr Q 
and RBS from any further potential loss I think RBS was fair in blocking Mr Qs account.
I realise this block caused Mr Q some considerable inconvenience and distress, but this 
flows from what I think was a reasonable decision to block his account. Since I dont think 
RBS did the wrong thing in blocking Mr Qs account, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the 
inconvenience and distress this caused.
But RBS could have handled things a little better. Mr Q had money in his account from his 
salary and other regular payments, and RBS agreed to release this to him. But when Mr Q 
visited a branch, he wasnt allowed to withdraw the money.
RBS added some notes, and it seems Mr Q was able to access some of the money but not 
all of it. Mr Q had to contact RBS again to agree a further withdrawal, and this was 
inconvenient for him. And there were wasted journeys to the branch.
Mr Q says RBS terminated a call, but RBS says this was caused by a technical issue. Calls 
do disconnect at times, and Mr Q was able to have further phone conversations with RBS 
so, on balance, I think its more likely the call disconnected accidently.
Mr Q said hed been told to borrow money from friends and family as he couldnt access 
what was in his account. I dont think this was a wholly unreasonable thing for RBS to say. 
Mr Q needed money, but his account was blocked, so RBS offered a possible solution.
Mr Q also said hed been the victim of fraud. RBS contacted Mr Q to explain the payment 
hed received. Mr Q said hed sold an item and posted it out to the buyer, but the buyer 
claimed they hadnt received it and said the payment theyd made was fraudulent.
Mr Q didnt have anything to show hed posted the item out, but RBS believed him. Although 
RBS returned the money to the sender, it unblocked Mr Qs account and allowed him to 
continue to use it. RBS could have decided to close Mr Qs account.
I dont think RBS believes Mr Q did anything wrong here. Mr Qs said hes been a customer 
of RBS for some time, and it should treat him better. I think RBS considered the length of 
time Mr Qs held the account as part of its fraud review.
And fraud reviews consider lots of factors, so Id expect them to take a bit of time. Mr Qs 
fraud review took 12 days to complete, and Mr Qs account was blocked during this time. In 
the circumstances, I think this was a reasonable amount of time to take.
Since I think RBS was right to block Mr Qs account, and it didnt take too long to complete 
its review and unblock the account, I dont think RBS needs to compensate Mr Q for his lack 
of access to the account.
But RBS didnt handle everything well, it sent him to branch to collect cash and he was 
turned down, on several occasions. And Mr Q was given conflicting information by RBS a 
few times. There were wasted branch journeys and several calls to RBS.
But RBS has paid Mr Q £150 to compensate for the poor service he received. In the specific 
circumstances of Mr Qs complaint, I think this is a fair amount to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Qs complaint, but RBS has already compensated him a fair 
amount, so I dont think it needs to do more to resolve things.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman