DRN-3406170
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society 
surrounding the switching of her current account to Nationwide.
What happened
Mrs V was an existing Nationwide customer and opened a new Nationwide current account 
online. Although Mrs V already had an existing Nationwide customer ID number, a new 
customer ID number was created for her during the application process, which meant that 
she had two such customer ID numbers. This led to Mrs V encountering problems when 
trying to associate the newly opened account with her existing Nationwide accounts.
Mrs V then instructed a current account switch to the newly opened account to take 
advantage of an incentive being offered by Nationwide at that time which promised a 
payment of £125 for newly switched account holders, so long as certain conditions were 
met. But Nationwide didnt pay the incentive to Mrs V, and they didnt apply the interest rate 
to the newly opened account that Mrs V felt they should have. So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs Vs complaint. They confirmed that Mrs V hadnt met the terms of 
the current account switch incentive and as such didnt qualify for the incentive payment. 
Nationwide also didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs V either in how a new 
customer ID number had been created, or in regard to the interest rate applied to the newly 
opened account. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Mrs V wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that 
Nationwide had acted unfairly towards Mrs V, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs V remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mrs V might be unhappy that her application for a new Nationwide 
account resulted in a new customer ID being generated for her when, as an existing 
customer, she already had a customer ID that was associated with her previously existing 
Nationwide accounts.
Nationwide have explained that the reason for this was that Mrs V didnt apply online for the 
new account while logged in to her existing Nationwide profile, but instead made the 
application while not logged in, which resulted in the creation of a new customer ID number.
Nationwide have also explained that under such circumstances, where a customer has two 
different customer ID numbers, their process is that the customers accounts are merged, 
and the newly created customer ID number is retained. 
It must be noted that this service isnt a regulatory body, and as such it isnt within the remit 
of this service to instruct Nationwide to change its operational policies. What this service can 
consider is whether the application of a process by a business has led to an unfair outcome 
for a customer in a specific instance. 
But in this instance, given that the result of Nationwide applying their process is that all of 
Mrs Vs accounts are now associated with the same (newer) customer ID number, I dont 
feel that an unfair outcome has arisen here. And while I appreciate that Mrs Vs merged 
profile didnt show the correct membership start date for a period of time, this issue has now 
been corrected and I dont feel that it merits the upholding of this complaint in this instance.
In her correspondence with this service, Mrs V has stated that shes certain that she did 
apply for the new Nationwide account while being logged into her existing Nationwide profile. 
However the information that Nationwide have provided to this service shows that the 
application was received from their website via a source that wasnt logged in to an existing 
account profile, and so Im satisfied that in all likelihood Mrs V wasnt logged in to her 
existing profile when making the new account application such that the creation of the new 
customer ID number by Nationwide, in line with their polices, wasnt unreasonable or unfair.
When considering whether Mrs V fairly qualifies for the current account switch incentive 
payment as she feels that she should do, I note that Nationwides criteria for this incentive 
includes that the switch must include the transfer of at least two direct debits to the newly 
opened account at the time of the current account switch.
But in this instance Mrs V didnt transfer any direct debits during the switch process, but 
instead moved direct debits to the new Nationwide account later, after the switch process 
had completed. 
As such, Im satisfied that Mrs V didnt fulfil the criteria required by Nationwide for the switch 
incentive payment to be paid. And while I appreciate that Mrs V may feel that by transferring 
the direct debits at a separate time the end result was the same as if she had instructed the 
transfer during the switch, I feel that Nationwides criteria for the incentive were clear and 
included that the transfers had to be made at the time of the switch in order for a customer to 
be eligible to receive the incentive payment. And I dont feel that it would be fair to instruct 
Nationwide to pay the incentive payment to Mrs V when she didnt fulfil the published criteria 
required by Nationwide in order for the incentive payment to be paid.
Finally, Mrs V feels that Nationwide have applied a less beneficial rate of interest to her 
newly opened account than should have been the case. However, its clear from 
Nationwides website that the beneficial rate of interest wouldnt apply in instances where a 
customer has held the same type of account that Mrs V had opened before. And, in this 
instance, Mrs V had held that same type of account before, and as such Im satisfied that her 
new account didnt qualify for the beneficial rate of interest as she believed.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonable towards Mrs V here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs V was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman