DRN-2499543
Complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with them. Theyve also said they were misled into believing that 
Ms B was only acting as a guarantor on this agreement rather than agreeing to be a joint 
borrower.
Mr B and Ms B are being assisted in this complaint by Ms Bs mother Mrs I.
Background
In January 2018, Vauxhall provided the finance for a used car, which Mr B was to be the 
registered keeper and main driver for. The purchase price was £16,175.00. Mr B and Ms B 
paid a deposit of £200 and the remaining £15,975.00 was funded through a conditional sale 
loan from Vauxhall. The loan had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 10.2% and was due 
to be repaid in 1 instalment of £481.86 followed by 59 monthly instalments of £332.68 and a 
final instalment of £481.68 which included an option to purchase fee. 
In September 2018, the vehicle was voluntarily surrendered to Vauxhall after a number of 
payments had been missed as well as only partial payments being made some months. 
Vauxhall sold the vehicle and reduced the remaining balance while seeking to recover the 
remaining amount for Mr B and Ms B. As a result of being unhappy with this Mrs I made a 
complaint to the seller of the vehicle and the concerns were eventually passed on to 
Vauxhall, as it was responsible for the finance. 
Vauxhall didnt uphold Mr B and Ms Bs complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the 
finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. It also said that it didnt believe that 
Mr B and Ms B were misled into believing that Ms B was a guarantor, rather than a joint 
borrower on the agreement. Mrs I, on behalf of Ms B and Mr B, was dissatisfied at Vauxhalls 
response and referred the complaint to our service.
Mr B and Ms Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think the 
checks Audi carried out before providing the finance were reasonable and proportionate. But 
he also thought reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt have shown Mr B and Ms B 
couldnt afford to make the monthly payments. And he didnt think that Ms B had been 
misled into believing she was a only a guarantor on the agreement too. This all led to him 
concluding that Mr B and Ms Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs I, on behalf of Mr B and 
Ms B, didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr B and Ms Bs complaint. 
Vauxhall needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Vauxhall needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr B and Ms B could sustainably repay what it was lending before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as an impaired credit history  suggested the lender 
needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Vauxhall says it agreed to this application after Mr B and Ms B provided details of their 
monthly incomes and it carried out a credit search on them. It says the income information 
Mr B and Ms B provided together with most of their existing commitments being up-to-date 
and being paid well showed that theyd be able to comfortably make the repayments they 
were committing to. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. On the other 
hand, Mrs I says the payments were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs I, on behalf of Mr B and Ms B, and Vauxhall have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Vauxhall carried out did go far enough. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement 
and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have expected Vauxhall to have found out 
more about Mr B and Ms Bs regular living expenses as well as their existing credit 
commitments. I was also very surprised to see that Vauxhall appeared to take no steps to 
verify Mr B and Ms Bs monthly incomes. 
As Ive not seen anything here to suggest that Vauxhall did do anything to ascertain            
Mr B and Ms Bs regular living expenses and take any steps to verify their income, Im not 
satisfied that the checks it carried out before entering into this conditional sale agreement 
were reasonable and proportionate. 
That said, even though Vauxhall may not have carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks this doesnt automatically mean that Mr B and Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. 
After all, if such checks would merely have shown Mr B and Ms B would more likely than not 
have been able to make the required repayments, Vauxhalls failure to have carried them out 
wont have made a difference here. 
So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate check would more 
likely than not have told Vauxhall that Mr B and Ms B would not have been able to 
sustainably make their repayments. In considering this matter, Ive mainly relied on the 
information Mrs I has provided about Mr B and Ms Bs circumstances.
The information Mrs I has provided does appear to show that when Mr B and Ms Bs living 
expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from their monthly income, they did 
have sufficient funds remaining, between them at least, to sustainably make the repayments 
due under this agreement. Mrs I has queried the salary Vauxhall recorded for Ms B as well 
as our investigators decision to take payments she received from her ex-partner into 
account, when another lender said it wasnt prepared to include these payments in its 
assessment of whether it was prepared to lend. 
But Ive not relied on the income figure Vauxhall used in its assessment  especially as 
Vauxhall itself has confirmed it didnt check this. Equally, while some lenders might not have 
been prepared to have taken the payments Ms Bs ex-partner was making to her into account, as she was receiving these payments, I dont think its unfair to include them as 
these funds were available to her. 
Indeed it would be unfair to exclude these payments when Ms B had access to these funds 
and they were available to make the payments to this agreement. I accept that Ms B may 
have also used an overdraft but again, I dont think that this in itself means Vauxhall wouldnt 
have, or shouldnt have, provided the finance when it appears that between them Mr B and 
Ms B did have sufficient funds to be able to make the repayments.  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, even though I think that Vauxhalls 
checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr B and Ms B didnt go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out such checks wouldnt have stopped Vauxhall from 
providing the funds, or entering into this agreement.
Ive also thought about whether Ms B was misled into thinking that she was only a guarantor 
to this agreement rather than a joint borrower. I dont know what was discussed at the time 
at the time of the application. But everything the parties have provided and said points to   
Mr B having had a sole application for the funds to purchase this car declined by Vauxhall 
and Ms B being asked to support a second application. As Mr B was the registered keeper 
and the main driver and Ms B was asked to support the application, I cant rule out the 
possibility that she might have believed that shed only be helping Mr B, rather than being 
jointly responsible for the agreement. 
However, having looked at the documentation  especially the credit agreement  I can see 
that it clearly lists Ms B as a joint applicant and theres no mention of a guarantee on any of 
the paperwork from the time. So while Ms B might herself have formed the impression that 
she was acting as a guarantor and not jointly liable for the agreement from the outset, the 
rest of the evidence from the time doesnt corroborate this being the case. And, in these 
circumstances, there simply isnt enough here for me to uphold the complaint on this basis.  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Vauxhall acted unfairly 
when entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr and Ms B. Although Im not 
upholding this complaint, Id like remind Vauxhall of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it 
intends to collect the outstanding balance remaining on the account and its the case that   
Mr and Ms B are experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr B and Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman