DRN-3480909
The complaint
Mrs H complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) refused to remove a default marker on her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs H took out a personal loan with BPF in 2016 and following a marital separation she 
experienced some financial difficulties, but managed to make arrangements with BPF at that 
time. However, following the Covid pandemic Mrs H says her income was affected and she 
missed some of her loan account payments. 
Mrs H says this culminated in BPF registering a default on her credit file and in addition BPF 
also incorrectly marked her credit file with missed payments when in fact these were paid. 
Mrs H says despite promises from BPF that it would contact her when she complained about 
this issue, it failed to do so. Mrs H also says BPF previously told her in a telephone call that 
once her account was made up to date the default would be removed. 
Mrs H says the Covid pandemic was the main cause of her financial problems and while she 
accepts BPF werent obliged to provide her with a Covid payment holiday, because of 
previous arrears on her loan account, given what it knows now and that she has brought the 
loan account up to date, it should now agree to remove the default from her credit file, even 
if it was correct to do so at the time. 
BPF says it wouldnt have been able to have agreed to a Covid payment holiday even if Mrs 
H had asked for one, as it was acting under the guidance given by The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) at that time. BPF says it has now correctly amended Mrs Hs credit file to 
reflect a payment plan was in place, however the default was correctly marked and will 
remain on her file for six years. BPF says it is obliged to record factual information with the 
credit reference agencies. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with BPFs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says BPF werent obliged to provide a Covid payment holiday given the previous 
arrears on the loan account. Additionally, the investigator says BPF had acted correctly 
when it registered the default on Mrs Hs credit file and isnt able to tell it to remove it now 
the arrears have been brought up to date. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand Mrs H has gone through a difficult period over recent years and this has 
been made even more challenging for her following the Covid pandemic. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if BPF acted fairly when it registered a default 
on Mrs Hs credit file, and whether or not given the loan account arrears have been made up 
to date, it should now agree to remove that default.
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
Mrs H says she wasnt happy with the way her complaint was handled by BPF, but I should 
point out its not the role of this service to scrutinise BPFs complaints process or to tell BPF 
how it should deal with complaints more widely. I would add that Mrs H did chase BPF at 
one point while the case was under investigation with this service, so that could be why she 
didnt get a response from them.
Its worth mentioning here that Mrs H isnt suggesting that BPF should have agreed a Covid 
payment holiday, as she accepts she wouldnt have been eligible for such at the time. While 
Im not being asked to consider this point, what I would say is the FCA under its guidance in 
April 2020 to businesses like BPF, stated that they had no obligation to provide a Covid 
payment holiday if previous arrears had been recorded. In any event I cant see that Mrs H 
ever requested this from BPF at that time. 
Mrs H also accepts BPF were within its rights to register the default on her credit file when it 
did in June 2020. Mrs Hs complaint centres around the fact she was given the impression 
by BPF, once the arrears had been brought up to date, as it has, the default marker would 
be removed. Additionally, Mrs H feels BPF still havent correctly amended her credit file to 
reflect that some of the missed payments recorded, were in fact paid on time.
Mrs H feels BPF should now, knowing what they know about her circumstances and how 
Covid affected her financial situation and that she has made up the arrears on her loan 
account, remove the default marker on her credit file. Mrs H says this credit marker will 
cause her severe financial problems for a number of years to come and feels that it is unfair 
in the circumstances. 
I have listened to a number of call recordings and that has proved helpful, but I wont be 
commenting on each call as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to an impartial 
decision here.  
What I would say, having listened to several phone call recordings, there is no evidence to 
suggest BPF ever agreed to remove the default once the arrears were made up to date and 
so on balance its reasonable to suggest it would not have agreed to such an arrangement, 
unless it had made an error in registering it in the first place  which it didnt.   
Mrs H is unhappy that her credit file has been marked with a default marker each month, 
which doesnt truly reflect the situation as her account has been brought up to date. Mrs H 
has provided an up to date extract from her credit file and this shows an arrangement was in 
place in March and April 2020 and from June 2020 the account was defaulted. From what I 
can see that is what was agreed and the default has been correctly marked from June 2020, 
and the default marker showing each month thereafter, which Mrs H doesnt feel truly 
reflects the fact her account has been brought up to do date.  While I understand what Mrs H is saying here, BPF are not responsible for the way in which 
certain credit reference agencies report default markers and this particular agency seems to 
record it this way. So, if Mrs H feels strongly about this point I would suggest she contacts 
the relevant credit agency directly to clarify this.  
As far as the default recorded on her credit file in June 2020 is concerned, as I mentioned 
before Mrs H isnt disputing Barclays were entitled to register this at the time, as she had 
missed a number of payments leading up to this and BPF issued a formal default notice in 
writing on 5 May 2020, in the way I would expect. What Mrs H is asking here is for BPF to 
reconsider this, given her current financial position, the fact she was affected by the Covid 
pandemic through no fault of her own, and that she has paid up the arrears on her loan 
account. 
While I can sympathise with Mrs Hs position here, its not my role to tell BPF it must now 
retrospectively remove the default registered against her, when it had been correctly marked 
for the reasons I have given. Its also fair to say businesses like BPF have a responsibility to 
record its customers account activity with the relevant credit agencies and I am satisfied it 
has done that here. 
While Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BPF here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman