DRN-3744230
The complaint
Mr W has complained about QIC Europe Ltd. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as QIC are 
responsible for it Ive primarily referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr W made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he had an accident in his classic 
car. When QIC looked into the claim it thought it would be difficult to repair the car, which 
had previous repairs, and thought that costs may spiral so it wrote off the car and offered Mr 
W the market value of his car in line with the policy. And it also offered to pay Mr W a cash in 
lieu (CIL) payment if he wanted to keep the car or Mr W could keep the car and it would 
deduct the salvage value of the car from the settlement.
But Mr W didnt feel that QIC had acted fairly. He thought it should have offered a higher 
amount as a CIL payment and that its other offers werent fair. So, he complained to QIC 
and then this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W but she felt that QIC had acted fairly. Although 
she sympathised with Mr W she thought QIC had acted reasonably by offering the market 
value of his car. And she thought that QICs offer for Mr W to retain the salvage of his car or 
to be paid a CIL payment was fair.
As Mr W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and   
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think QIC acted unfairly in the way it approached settling Mr Ws 
claim by a CIL payment. However, having looked at the overall valuation of Mr Ws car I 
dont think its offer of £14,000 as a market value is enough. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ws position, as he clearly feels QIC should pay a higher amount as a 
CIL payment in order that he can fully repair his car. But QIC has looked into the cost of 
repairing his car and thought that it would cost about 60% of the market value of the car to 
repair it. And it was very mindful that the repair costs would rise given the age of Mr Ws car, 
some previous repaired damage, and the difficulty it would face in getting parts. I know Mr W 
doesnt agree with the CIL offer but it has also offered to settle his claim by paying the 
market value of his car which would allow Mr W to buy a similar car which seems fair, 
although I accept it would be difficult to buy a similar car given its age.
Furthermore, QIC have also given Mr W a third option which is to keep the car, deduct the 
cost of the salvage from the settlement and not to place any salvage marker against the car. 
As Mr Ws car is a classic this seems a fair offer in the circumstances of the case and this is 
in line with the general approach I would expect it to take.
Turning to the valuation of Mr Ws car. Mr W feels that the way QIC has valued his car would 
also leave him out of pocket. As our investigator explained, this Service has an established 
approach to valuation cases like Mr Ws. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by 
an insurance company I consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the 
valuation is fair in all the circumstances.
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the 
particular car.
Usually I would pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars alongside any 
other evidence provided by both sides. But in this instance the trade valuation guides dont 
provide a guide price as Mr Ws car is too old and so there is very little selling data to 
support a valuation. So, I have had to focus on the evidence provided from both sides and, 
in particular, the engineers evidence and valuation. The condition of the car at the time of 
the incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only 
order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I have considered all of the available information and the most persuasive evidence I have 
comes from the engineers that QIC used to consider the claim damage and place a value on 
the car. While QIC has relied on an engineers suggested value of £14,000 in valuing Mr Ws 
car there is a further report that suggests the value was £15,950. Our investigator asked QIC 
about this discrepancy but QIC didnt really provide a response but just reiterated the 
£14,000 figure. But without any explanation otherwise I think it would be fairer to consider 
this valuation that has been documented by QIC. So, I think it should pay Mr W a market 
value of £15,950 as opposed to the £14,000 it has offered, and it should pay 8% simple 
interest.
In relation to the salvage I understand that QIC has suggested the car would be worth about 
£5,600. I note that our investigator has also asked QIC to clarify how it reached this figure, 
but it hasnt really responded in any detail. So, Ill ask QIC to respond to this provisional 
decision with some clarity around this. And to maintain the salvage of the car is worth that 
much I would expect it to provide evidence of how the salvage figure was reached and that it 
would sell the car as salvage for this amount.
Finally, I note that Mr W has faced a difficult time with his health and that all this has caused 
him a fair degree of stress and inconvenience. However, he could have accepted QICs offer 
and have gone on to dispute the overall value of his car with QIC and then this Service. This 
would have allowed him to get his car back on the road or to buy another car and to move 
on. But I do feel that QICs low valuation of his car has caused him some additional stress 
and inconvenience so it should pay him £150 compensation.
Given all of this, Im satisfied QIC adopted a reasonable approach to settling Mr Ws claim, 
but its valuation of his car was low. So, Im presently minded to lift the valuation to £15,950 
plus 8% simple interest for the time he has been without any money owed. And Ill ask QIC 
to verify the salvage position and to pay Mr W £150 in compensation.Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr W reiterated that he thought QIC made 
a mistake in how it read the repair quote which meant its CIL offer was low. And he felt it 
compounded its error by being unwilling to consider or acknowledge that a mistake had 
been made. Mr W said again that he thought all this had affected his health. He said the 
stress and frustration QIC caused him in the way it dealt with his claim led to a series of 
panic attacks and affected his health. And he said again that he couldnt have accepted 
QICs offer and got his car back on the road as its CIL or write off offer options were low, and 
he had no other funds to cover the cost of the parts involved. 
While QIC said that it did respond to the queries raised. It said it couldnt provide the 
evidence we would usually see because of the age of Mr Ws car and the lack of trade 
valuation guide data. So, it asked for the position and information to be considered again.
QIC also said Mr W left long periods when, despite chasing him, that he failed to engage. 
And so, it felt Mr W delayed settlement and prolonged the 8% simple interest award period. 
It felt it did its best to try to reach a settlement solution and that it shouldnt be penalised by 
Mr Ws delay. So, it thought either the compensation should be awarded or the 8% simple 
interest, not both. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is to partly uphold this complaint. 
I say this as the evidence provided by QIC clearly shows a valuation from its engineer of 
£15,950. I have asked QIC about this, given it offered £14,000 in line with a separate 
valuation, and it hasnt explained why the valuation of £15,950 was given by its engineer. 
And without any real explanation about the difference in valuations and why the lower figure 
was chosen I think it should pay the higher valuation. As such, I think it shouldve offered this 
amount at the beginning and had it have done so Mr W may well have accepted this as the 
difference is around £2,000, so I think it should pay him 8% simple interest for the time hes 
been without the money.
I know Mr Ws health has suffered recently and Im sure all of this has impacted him and 
caused some stress and inconvenience. But I havent been provided with anything to say 
that all this has been the only cause or main cause of Mr Ws recent poor health and making 
an insurance claim inevitably causes some stress. So, I think the £150 compensation I have 
suggested feels fair taking everything into account. 
Finally, I asked QIC if it could clarify the position surrounding how it got to the salvage figure. 
And our investigator asked about this as well. But it hasnt commented on this in response. 
However, as Ive decided that it should lift the value of Mr Ws car I dont propose to interfere 
with this. I say this as the percentage of the salvage value has been reduced because of the 
increase in valuation, so I think this represents a fair salvage value if Mr W chooses this 
method of settlement. And I note QIC told Mr W the salvage value was £5,520 in its final 
response letter so I dont propose to interfere with that now.
Given all of this, I still think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for QIC to increase the valuation of Mr Ws car to £15,950 plus 8% simple interest and Mr W can decide how he wants to settle the claim. Additionally, it 
should pay Mr W £150 compensation 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require QIC 
Europe Ltd to
increase the valuation of Mr Ws car to £15,950;
and to allow Mr W to choose how he wants the claim to be settled - either pay the 
CIL settlement it offered originally; or the market value of his car (£15,950); or the 
market value of his car and allow him to keep the salvage, at a cost of £5,520, - as 
per Mr Ws wishes deducting any excess due;
adding 8% simple interest to any settlement figure from the date of the incident until 
the date of payment; and 
pay £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman