DRN-1948690
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr M says he bought the PPI policy alongside a credit card in 1995. The PPI wouldve 
helped him with his credit card repayments if he was unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr M have all paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But where I have limited information 
about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on everything I have seen. 
This includes both Lloyds and Mr Ms testimony. 
Mr M says that Lloyds added the PPI without his consent. Mr M adds he has never agreed to 
PPI on any of his financial products which he believes demonstrates he wouldnt have 
agreed to it on his credit card either. But Lloyds says the optional nature of the PPI wouldve 
been made clear and only added to his account if hed agreed to it.  
Lloyds has provided a sample copy of the application form it was using in 1995 when Mr M 
believes the PPI was added. This shows customers had to tick a box requesting cover  so it 
looks like the policy was set out as optional and customers had to select cover. Mr M says 
his form was completed by a branch employee and he simply signed the form. But I wouldve 
expected him to have looked over the form before signing it and confirming the selections 
made. 
Weve also seen a number of cases from 1995 through to 2000 and from what weve seen of 
those cases, the optional nature of the PPI was usually made clear by Lloyds and only 
added to their customers accounts after they agreed to it. 
While I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling regarding this, and have thought carefully about 
his testimony, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely the policy was presented as 
optional to Mr M and he agreed to take it knowing he had a choice. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that it was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he was 
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. He also seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr M was employed and says he had three months sick pay provided by his employer. But 
he adds this couldve been extended at the discretion of his employer  but it seems to me 
that this wasnt a contractual right he was entitled to. And in any event, this policy wouldve 
paid out on top of his sick pay and any other employee benefits he mightve had, and for up 
to 12 months  so I still think he couldve found it useful had he found himself unexpectedly 
out of work. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman