DRN-3553079
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed its business 
account and didnt explain why. 
Mr C, who is a partner of C, brings the complaint on its behalf. As Mr C has provided all the 
commentary on behalf of C, Ive referred to him throughout.
What happened
Mr C is one of two partners in a business partnership, who opened a business account with 
Lloyds. In September 2020, Lloyds gave Mr C notice that it would be closing the business 
account. It acknowledged that he currently had some loans which were being paid using the 
account. So, it explained it would open a loan servicing account instead, so Mr C could 
continue to make the monthly loan repayments. But it explained the loan servicing account 
shouldnt be used for any business trading.
Mr C was unhappy with this and complained to Lloyds. He said Lloyds hadnt given him a 
specific reason why it had decided to close the account. He said he felt he had been 
subjected to racial discrimination and the action taken was a breach of his human rights. He 
also said his business had been affected as a result. Lloyds didnt think it had treated Mr C 
unfairly. So, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Shortly afterwards, Lloyds 
acknowledged there had been a delay in opening the loan servicing account, meaning that 
Mr C had incurred £73.20 in charges. It refunded these and also paid Mr C £150 for the 
inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. In summary, he outlined that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Cs account meant that Lloyds could close a customers account, provided it 
gave two months notice  which he thought it had. He later acknowledged the delay in 
Lloyds opening a loan servicing account, meaning that Mr C was unable to make loan 
repayments, but pointed out that Lloyds had taken steps to refund Mr C for the error made.
Lloyds didnt dispute our investigators view, but Mr C did and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. He also pointed out that whilst Lloyds said it would be closing the account, the 
account in fact remained open and he was incurring charges as a result. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the complaint has been with this service, and following our investigators view, matters 
have progressed. As I understand it, Mr C has raised additional concerns  namely that the 
business account had remained open for some months, following Lloyds decision to close it, 
and he had incurred more charges as a result. Ive noted that these additional concerns 
have been addressed in separate final response letters, the latest of which was issued after 
our investigator initially addressed matters. So, I consider it appropriate for these matters to 
be considered separately and therefore I make no comment on these subsequent complaint 
points in this decision. It therefore follows that my decision will only focus on Lloyds decision 
to close Mr Cs account. 
 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account say that Lloyds can close an account by giving 
at least two months written notice. Lloyds wrote to Mr C on 2 September 2020 to explain 
that it would be closing his account. Ive also seen a contact note from September 2020, 
outlining that further correspondence was sent to Mr C. The note outlines that Lloyds 
explained that the terms and conditions allowed the bank to close an account with a 60-day 
notice to close period.
I know Mr C wants to know the reason why Lloyds decided to close his account. But its 
important I explain that Lloyds isnt obliged to give a reason about why it wants to stop 
providing an account to a customer. The terms and conditions of the account state that 
Lloyds is entitled to make the decision it did, much in the same way that Mr C was entitled to 
close his account if he wanted to. 
Mr C told Lloyds he felt it had discriminated against him because of his race. I need to clarify 
that this service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes discrimination 
as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal free alternative to the 
courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out 
within the Act. 
However, I can consider whether the business has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, 
and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 2010, into 
consideration. Our service asked Mr C why he felt Lloyds had discriminated against him and, 
following a conversation with an investigator, Mr C ultimately asked for this question to be 
put in writing. It doesnt appear Mr C has ever responded to provide this detail by any of the 
deadlines given. 
With that in mind, Ive proceeded with the information available to me. And, whilst I dont 
dispute what Mr C says or how he feels, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Lloyds has 
treated Mr C unfairly with regards to the closure of the account. I say this because Lloyds 
has provided its terms and conditions, referred to above, and I am satisfied it relied on them 
when closing Mr Cs account. Therefore, in the absence of any further supporting evidence, I 
cant say Lloyds has treated Mr C unfairly with the decision it made.
As I understand it, Mr C says his account was blocked which prevented payments being 
made to and from the account. Lloyds has told this service Mr Cs account was blocked after 
60 days had elapsed. In correspondence with this service, as I understand it, Mr C has 
suggested his account was blocked some time in October or November 2020. 
From the evidence on file, the exact date that the account was blocked is unclear to me. In 
correspondence with this service, Lloyds itself has acknowledged an error that occurred 
around the time the account was blocked which resulted in Mr C being charged £73.20. And, 
in response, Lloyds refunded Mr C this amount, and it also paid him an additional £150 
compensation in recognition of any inconvenience caused at the time. 
So, whilst the exact date the account was blocked is unclear, I think Lloyds has already fairly 
put Mr C back in the position he wouldve been in, had an error not occurred around the 
time. And, I think it has paid him a reasonable amount to recognise any distress or 
inconvenience he had been caused around the period in question. Taking this into account, I 
find Lloyds actions to be reasonable, and therefore wont be asking it to do anything 
differently.Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to close Mr Cs account and I cant say that it has 
treated him unfairly with the decision it made to do so. So, whilst I acknowledge that this will 
be disappointing for Mr C, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman