DRN-4295798
The complaint
Ms D complains about the transfer of her pre-paid funeral plan to Dignity Funerals Limited. 
Shes unhappy about a delay in receiving documents and that Dignity hasnt refunded her 
the money she paid to the original provider. 
What happened
To summarise, in 2017, Ms D bought a funeral plan from a company Ill call P. The total cost 
of the plan amounted to £3495. When Ms D bought her plan, the sale and administration of 
pre-paid funeral plans wasnt subject to compulsory regulation. But this changed in July 
2022, when it became a requirement for firms in the pre-paid funeral plan industry to be 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. P originally applied to become regulated, but 
later withdrew its application and went into administration. Customers were contacted with 
details of a transfer arrangement that Dignity was offering, or the option of a partial refund. 
In October 2022, Ms D sought a full refund from P, but by this stage P was in administration. 
Ms D transferred her plan to Dignity, mindful that the window for doing so was time-limited. 
Ms D wasnt happy that the initial information from Dignity didnt confirm her transferred plan 
would offer the same benefits. She felt she had no choice but to sign, even though she 
hadnt seen the full terms. She wrote to Dignity saying:
I have signed the transfer form providing once the transfer has taken place 31 
October 2022 a new plan will be then drawn up with Dignity and I will be given a 14-
day period to decide if to sign the new plan or receive a full refund £3495.
Ms D didnt receive emails sent by Dignity enclosing plan information. So it wasnt until 
January 2023 that she got the welcome pack with plan documents.
In March 2023, Ms D wrote to Dignity asking to cancel her plan and receive a full refund. 
Dignity attempted to contact Ms D, leaving a voicemail to explain it had yet to receive any 
funds from P, so was unable to cancel her plan. 
Ms D complained about the delay in receiving documents and the lack of cancellation and 
refund. Dignity upheld her complaint regarding the delay in receiving documents and 
apologised for any inconvenience caused. But it didnt uphold her complaint about wishing to 
cancel and be refunded, reiterating that Dignity had not received any funds from P, but 
would contact customers when it did.  
Ms D remained unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked into things but didnt think Dignity needed to do anything 
more. She reviewed Dignitys terms and was satisfied Dignity was only responsible for 
refunding any monies, once received from P. 
Ms D disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be disappointing news for 
Ms D and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points and evidence I 
consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, 
its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of 
the complaint. 
Unfortunately, Ms D, like all Ps customers, was put in an unenviable position, with limited 
options, when P left the funeral plans market. Through no fault of her own, Ms D has had to 
deal with uncertainty, inconvenience and upset. I acknowledge this has been a difficult time 
for her. My role is to look at the actions of Dignity and decide whether its acted fairly towards 
her. I appreciate Ms D thinks that Dignity accepted transfer of her plan, so is responsible for 
issuing her a full refund. But having looked at the terms relating to the transfer and 
cancellation, I disagree.
Ms Ds welcome pack included the plan terms and conditions. Under the cancellation 
section, it says:
Upon receiving your notice of cancellation, we will refund all the money paid within 
30 calendar days of us receiving your notification. For the avoidance of doubt, where 
your plan was previously held by another provider, the refunded sum shall be capped 
at the amount of money received by us in relation to the plan from your previous 
provider and any subsequent payments made directly from you to us.
The transfer of the plan offered Ms D continuity of funeral provision at the time of need, 
when the only other options available were to be without any pre-paid funeral provision and 
to wait to see what refund might be obtainable via Ps administrators, or purchase a 
replacement plan from another regulated provider at full market cost. But the terms of that 
transfer allow Dignity to refund not payments made by the customer, but payments received 
from the previous provider. The terms reflected the commercial agreement made between P 
and Dignity to offer continuity of provision to Ps customers. Having seen the terms, I think 
Dignity is entitled to rely on them to say its not in a position to make any refund until funds 
are received from P.
  
Finally, Ive seen there was some delay in Ms D receiving her plan documents. But Dignity 
accepted this and apologised, which I think was a fair response in the circumstances. 
So overall, I think Dignity has acted fairly in acknowledging any inconvenience caused by the 
delayed receipt of plan documents, setting out the cancellation position to Ms D and 
explaining that any refund would be limited to payments received from P. So Im not going to 
ask Dignity to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Once again, Im sorry to send unwanted news to Ms D.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman