DRN-3888974
The complaint
A limited liability partnership, which Ill refer to as W, complains that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc failed to provide reasonable restructuring proposals and rejected restructuring 
proposals put forward by W. 
W is represented by one of its designated members, who is in turn represented by a claims 
management company. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all statements of the claims 
management company or the member as those of W. 
What happened
In 2005, W lent just over £11m to a company in the USA. In the same year, W borrowed 
£7m from RBS as a bridging loan, to be repaid in six months, secured by two of its members 
personal guarantees. 
The USA company failed, without repaying W. Ws members were assigned some US 
intellectual property (IP) assets. 
From 2006 onwards, RBS extended their lending and W made part repayments, roughly 
halving the debt by 2009.
In 2009, RBS transferred the management of Ws accounts to their Global Restructuring 
Group (GRG). There were further renewals and extensions of the lending. As security for the 
guarantees, the two members assigned to the bank their rights to the proceeds from the sale 
of the IP. The members also proposed a partial refinancing with another bank, which RBS 
rejected. 
The sale of the IP did not complete and in 2013, the bank formally terminated the IP sale 
agreement. W made further settlement proposals, which werent accepted by RBS. 
In 2014, the bank formally demanded repayment. Discussions continued and the debt 
remains outstanding.
W referred the current complaint to us in 2020, after the bank had reviewed their case under 
the voluntary GRG review scheme. The bank issued their final conclusions under that 
scheme in July 2020, after their initial findings had also been considered by the Independent 
Third Party, which was the appeal stage of the scheme. RBS did not uphold Ws complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
the complaint. He said the bank had shown material forbearance in allowing time for the sale 
of the IP, so he didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
W disagreed with our investigators opinion and made the following points, in summary:
The bank had failed to give the assistance that would have been good business 
turnaround practice. 
Our investigator found that the bank hadnt failed to provide restructuring proposals, 
but he hadnt identified any proposals provided. 
A loan extension wasnt a restructuring proposal. 
In August 2009, another bank had offered to refinance £2m of Ws debt. RBS had 
acted unreasonably in rejecting this proposal. 
The bank didnt make any contact with either partner between 2014 and 2016. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I know W has said that the bank made no contact with its members from 2014 to 2016. 
But I cant see that this was part of the original complaint to the bank so I cant consider it 
here.  
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account any relevant law and 
regulations, but also what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. The 
loan in this case is unregulated, so this complaint chiefly revolves around what I believe 
constituted good turnaround practice, bearing in mind the circumstances of W. 
W was established as an investment property business, but by 2009, it had sold all its 
property. It wasnt trading in any meaningful sense and its only activity related to the RBS 
loan. 
Where a trading business encounters a difficult trading period and there are reasonable 
prospects for recovery, then I might expect a bank to assist it in turning around, for example 
by coming up with a restructuring plan commensurate with its cashflow. But this wasnt the 
position in Ws case. With no income and no assets on offer except some shares held by 
one of the directors and the IP, there were a very limited number of levers available. I dont 
think its reasonable to expect the bank to have come up with a repayment proposal in this 
scenario. 
I do think it was good practice for the bank to allow some time for Ws members to carry out 
their own plan and to maintain a regular dialogue whilst this was going on. The evidence 
shows that this is what happened. RBS allowed time for W to explore refinancing elsewhere 
and to try and achieve the sale of the IP. The bank did this by renewing Ws loan for short 
periods (as it was originally hoped that the sale wouldnt take too long). Everything Ive seen 
suggests this is what W wanted at the time.
In August 2009, I can see that W wrote to RBS to inform it that they were in talks with other 
lenders about refinancing Ws debt. W said it had asked one bank to consider advancing 
sufficient funds to settle the existing RBS W debt. It went on to say that Whilst our 
discussions are ongoing, we believe [the other bank] may get to £2.8m  in other words, not 
the whole amount outstanding. W asks whether this would be acceptable to the bank. RBS 
replied that this wasnt acceptable as the bank expects proposals to support repayment of 
the term loan in full. 
In 2009, W was newly in GRG, having achieved some debt reductions over the previous 
years. I dont think it was unreasonable of the bank not to want to accept a £800,000 write 
off at that stage and to see if the proposal could develop into something more palatable for 
the whole amount. Its also clear that the banks initial response didnt call a halt to the plan. Rather, discussions 
continued with the other lender. RBS internal records from September 2009 record that 
Heads of Terms now expectedimminently. The remaining balance of c.£800k is to be 
refinanced via secured personal term loans. This suggests that W was telling RBS that a 
proposal was likely to be put forward for the whole amount and they were waiting to see 
what emerged. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests that it was W, rather than the bank, which then moved 
away from this idea. Ive seen no evidence that any Heads of Terms ever materialised. By 
December, although Ws members were still in talks with the other lender, they appear to 
have been more actively pursuing sales of shares and the IP as their preferred option, with 
the refinancing more of a back-up plan. 
In the years after 2009, W continued to pursue the asset sales, giving the bank positive 
updates on progress throughout 2010 and 2011. Both sides clearly saw this as the best way 
forward during this period. Im satisfied that short term renewals of the lending would be 
normal market practice in this situation. 
By 2013, its clear that the bank had lost faith in the IP sale solution, telling W that there was 
no credible basis to argue as to why the bank should continue to renew this loan. Im 
sure it was frustrating to Ws members when RBS cancelled the sale agreement, but given 
the amount of time that had passed, I dont think this was unreasonable. Despite this, the 
bank hadnt demanded repayment, so it was still effectively giving W more time. In August 
2013, RBS wrote that our current preference would be to work with you to reach a mutually 
acceptable solution.  
At the end of 2013, the banks records show that W sent an email with a once and for all 
walk away offer, comprising cash of £750,000 plus a 50% interest in any eventual IP sale. 
The bank acknowledged the proposal promptly, saying that they would provide a formal 
response by the end of January 2014. W also provided asset and liability statements for its 
members, which the banks internal records show were taken into consideration. The bank 
replied on 10 February 2014, declining the offer but leaving the door open for a revised 
proposal by the end of February. I cant see that any further proposals were ever made after 
this point. The bank transferred W to their Recoveries department in April 2014. 
In summary, I think the bank showed considerable forbearance to W, expressing more than 
once their desire to find a mutual solution and allowing plenty of time for more proposals to 
emerge. I am satisfied that the banks actions were in line with turnaround practice at that 
time and I therefore dont intend to require the bank to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman