DRN-3484421
The complaint
Mr D is upset that Volvo Car Financial Services UK Limited (VCFS) didnt approve his 
finance application.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
It's not for our service to determine what processes VCFS use to decide whether to provide 
credit. Thats a business decision they are entitled to make and where one lender may be 
prepared to provide credit another may not  often because their risk profiles are different. 
The information a lender will ask for will vary depending on the lender and the type of credit. 
I can see that Mr D is upset the business didnt ask him about his home ownership or 
earnings but the information a lender will ask will vary and I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest VCFS were obliged to ask for that information.
The Standards of Lending Practice set out by the Lending Standards Board says that when 
a consumer asks for a reason why credit hasnt been advanced the business should provide 
the main reason. We wouldnt expect them to set out their reasoning in detail as that could 
be commercially sensitive.
Here, VCFS have explained that the main reason they didnt advance credit to Mr D was 
because the application didnt meet their risk parameters.
So, whilst I understand Mr D is upset VCFS wouldnt lend to him despite his good credit 
position, I dont think they had to. I think they followed a fair process when deciding to lend 
and when they advised Mr D of their reasons.
Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman