DRN-2188931
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the payment options he was offered by Morses Club PLC 
(Morses Club) when it was unable to send an agent to collect payments as a result of the 
pandemic. He says he wasnt able to make payment at the post office with the barcode 
provided and had to try different places before it was accepted. So Morses Club should 
compensate him. 
What happened
Mr N had a home credit loan with Morses Club. His payments were usually collected by a 
Morses Club agent. However, the onset of the pandemic prevented Morses Club from 
sending an agent to him. After a discussion with Morses Club, Mr N was provided with a 
paypoint barcode to make payment. But he found it difficult to do so and eventually 
complained to Morses Club. 
Morses Club didnt offer Mr N any compensation. Mr N remained unhappy and referred his 
complaint to us. Mr Ns complaint was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt 
think Morses Club had done anything wrong, or treated Mr N unfairly. So she didnt think    
Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. Mr N disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything provided Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
I can understand why it would have been more difficult for Mr N to make his payments when 
Morses Club became unable to send an agent to collect them from him. But this was as a 
result of an unprecedented situation. And I dont think Morses Clubs inability to send 
someone round to collect Mr Ns payments itself was unfair as it offered him a number of 
reasonable alternatives to make his payments. 
 
As I understand it, Mr N was offered three options for making payment. Mr N was offered the 
option of making payment online, the option of making payment over the phone and finally 
the option using a paypoint code to do so at any post office. I know that Mr N wasnt able to 
use all of these options because he didnt have access to the internet. Ive also seen that   
Mr N didnt want to make payment over the phone either because hed previously had 
difficulties when making payments to other providers. 
So Mr N chose to make his payment using a paypoint code at the post office, as it appeared 
to be the most convenient of all the options offered to him. I appreciate that Mr N had 
difficulties with the paypoint barcode being read at the first post office he visited. But as Mr N 
was able to make payment with the same code at the next place he tried, it seems to me that 
any difficulties were due to the post office Mr N visited, rather than the paypoint code Morses 
Club provided. So, in these circumstances, I dont think that Morses Club was responsible 
for Mr Ns difficulties or that it did anything wrong. 
Im also mindful that Morses Club didnt add any further interest even though there was this 
delay in it receiving Mr Ns payment  it was received after date Mr Ns early settlement 
payment needed to be cleared for him to receive an interest rebate. As this is the case and 
bearing in mind what Ive already said about the payment options it offered Mr N, I think that 
Morses.Club did treat Mr N fairly and so Im not upholding the complaint, or requiring it to 
pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman