DRN-2090212
The complaint
Mr T complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender, lent him money he couldnt 
afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Mr T seven loans between June 2013 and May 2019. Mr T says that Mr 
Lender didnt do enough checks to see whether he could afford the loans. He says he was 
reliant on other short term borrowing at the time.
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out through affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Ts employment and says based on the information it gathered 
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked what the loans were for and Mr T gave 
reasons that didnt include repaying other debts.
Our adjudicator didnt think that he had seen enough to say that loans 1,2,4 and 5 shouldnt 
have been provided. However, he thought that Mr Ts borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern by loan 3 and this loan shouldnt have been provided. There was a break in the 
chain of lending between loan 3 and 4 and loan 4 and 5. But Mr T had struggled to repay 
loan 5 and our adjudicator thought that loan 6 and 7 shouldnt have been given as by this 
point Mr Ts borrowing and repayment pattern suggested he couldnt sustainably afford 
these loans.
Mr Lender didnt accept the adjudicators view and in summary said that there were 
significant gaps in the borrowing which broke the chain of lending. Mr Ts requests to defer 
repayments were in line with guidance applicable at the time and it confirmed with Mr T the 
reasons for the requests which suggested short term issues and no financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1,2,4 and 5 should not 
have been provided. Mr T hasnt disagreed with what the adjudicator has said about these 
loans, so I dont think I need to say any more about them as they dont appear to be in 
dispute.
At the point of taking out loan 3 Mr T had been borrowing from Mr Lender for over a year 
barring a break of around two months between loans 1 and 2. Mr T asked for loan 3 on the 
same day as loan 2 was repaid for three times the amount borrowed. This would suggest 
that Mr T couldnt afford to pay back what he had borrowed without borrowing again. 
Although Mr Ts deferrals were within the guidelines applicable at the time, at the point of 
loan 3, I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Ts borrowing pattern was a cause for concern 
and suggested he couldnt sustainably afford to borrow again. So, I dont think Mr Lender 
shouldve given Mr T loan 3.  
There was a significant gap between Mr T paying off loan 3 and taking out loan 4 which was 
long enough for Mr Lender to conclude that any difficulty may have passed. There was a 
further significant gap between Mr T paying off loan 4 and taking out loan 5. I agree with the 
adjudicator that loan 5 is the start of a new chain of lending. Mr T borrowed £350 on 4 April 
2018. He told Mr lender his income was £2200, and his outgoings were £1120. The highest 
repayment on this loan was £189.46 so the repayment seemed easily affordable. Mr T 
applied to defer his first and second repayments of the capital. At the point his third 
repayment was due he told Mr Lender he was struggling as his outgoings had increased and 
a repayment plan was set up for Mr T to clear the loan. 8 days after this loan was repaid Mr 
T asked for loan 6 for £300.At this point I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to look more closely at Mr Ts finances 
given his delayed repayment of the previous loan and the fact that he was asking for another 
loan so soon. For this loan Mr T said he had a monthly disposable income of £1000. This 
seems inconsistent with his struggle to repay the previous loan. Mr T deferred the capital 
repayments on the loan on two occasions. After this loan was repaid there was a gap of 
around two months and then Mr T asked for loan 7 for £800. This was a significant increase 
and by this point I think that Mr Ts borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and 
suggested that he wasnt using this credit sustainably. The highest repayment on this loan 
was £325 and given the difficulty in repaying the previous loan I dont think Mr Lender 
shouldve given Mr T this loan either. Mr T asked his bank to chargeback the final repayment 
of loan 6 and before the first instalment was due on loan 7, he told Mr Lender he was in 
financial difficulty. This further suggests that loans 6 and 7 were unsustainable for Mr T.
    
Putting things right
I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr T loans 3,6 and 7. Mr T 
has had the benefit of that money, so I think it is only right that he pays it back. But all 
interest, fees and charges should be refunded. If Mr Lender has sold the debt to a third 
party, it should buy the debt back before doing what Ive set out. If it doesnt want to buy the 
debt back it should liaise with the new owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr T having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr T. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr T.
E. Any adverse information on Mr Ts credit file about these loans should be removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr 
Lender should put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 7 
December 2020.
 
Emma BoothroydOmbudsman