DRN-2862598
The complaint
Mr S complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S had an annual travel insurance policy with URV. Cover 
began on 28 May 2019. Mr S booked a trip with intended departure and return dates of  
8 June 2020 and 15 June 2020 respectively. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. That advice remained in place at the time of Mr S intended 
departure. 
On 16 May 2020, Mr S airline cancelled his flights because of Covid-19. Mr S made a 
claim against his policy in relation to unrecovered accommodation costs. URV declined 
his claim. It said that what happened here wasnt covered by the policy. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
What happened here isnt an insured event under the terms of the policy. So, I dont 
think that URV was at fault in declining Mr S claim.
Ive looked beyond the cancellation provisions of the policy. In the particular 
circumstances here, there are no grounds on which I could fairly direct URV to deal 
with Mr S claim. 
Mr S says that the documentation provided by URV was misleading as the Insurance 
Product Information Document doesnt set out whats excluded from the policy. I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect a summary document to set out 
everything thats not covered by the policy. I think it was for Mr S to satisfy himself 
that the policy met his needs. URV provided sufficient information to enable him to do 
that. 
In this decision, Im looking at the actions of URV. Mr S says that he was misled by 
the broker. The investigator has explained what Mr S needs to do if he wishes to 
pursue a complaint against the broker. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman