DRN-2635442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with their 
application for a further advance on their mortgage. They say that delays and mistakes by 
HSBC caused the value of their home to fall by about £50,000, as a result of which they 
couldnt get the mortgage product they wanted. Mr and Mrs S want HSBC to compensate 
them for their financial losses, which they estimate as being over £10,000 in additional 
interest payments, as well as compensate them for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
What happened has been set out in detail in the correspondence between Mr and Mrs S and 
HSBC, and with our investigator, so I wont repeat the details here. Its important that I dont 
include in this decision any information that might identify Mr and Mrs S, because our 
decisions are published. For this reason, I will provide only a brief summary of the events.
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with HSBC under its FirstDirect brand, taken out in 
November 2016. They borrowed £164,240 on a capital repayment basis. In early 2020 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to take out a further advance, increasing their total borrowing to 
£204,000. Mr and Mrs S estimated their property to be worth at least £277,000, which would 
give them a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of under 75% - and access to products at interest rates 
which only applied for LTVs of 75% or lower. HSBC required a valuation to be carried out, 
and an independent surveyor was instructed on 30 March 2020.
Unfortunately, due to the pandemic, it wasnt possible for the valuation to be carried out until 
May 2020. 
In error, HSBC put the estimated value of the property at £204,000 on the instructions to the 
surveyor. The valuation of the property came back at £225,000. HSBC let the surveyor know 
it had made a mistake in the instructions. The surveyor noted this but didnt change the 
valuation from £225,000. 
Mr and Mrs S challenged the valuation of £225,000 as being inaccurate. They provided 
details from property websites showing other properties in the area which, they said, proved 
HSBCs valuation was incorrect. The surveyor looked at these but didnt change his opinion 
on the valuation of the property. He explained that the details from property portals were not 
valuations, and noted significant differences in the types of properties Mr and Mrs S had 
highlighted.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at the length of time taken by HSBC, first in relation to the delay 
in the application, and then in challenging the valuation. Mr and Mrs S had wanted to contact 
the surveyor direct, but this wasnt possible.
HSBC looked at whether or not Mr and Mrs Ss application could go ahead at a higher LTV 
than 75% but on the product they originally wanted (which was for LTVs of under 75%). This 
wasnt possible. HSBC offered another product, which was at a higher interest rate, due to 
the increased LTV of 90%. Mr and Mrs S accepted the new product and the mortgage 
completed in August 2020.
Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC about delays, and about the valuation. HSBC accepted 
there had been delays at the outset and paid compensation of £100 for this. HSBC also 
acknowledged its mistake on the instructions to the valuer and accepted the length of time 
the application had taken was too long. The bank offered a further £150 for this.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs S contacted the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They are unhappy at what they say is an inaccurate valuation, and 
believe that the delays by HSBC in dealing with their application meant their property fell in 
value by £50,000. Mr and Mrs S want HSBC to compensate them for the additional interest 
theyre paying on their mortgage due to the higher LTV, and to compensate them for the 
stress and upset theyve been caused.
An investigator looked at the complaint but was satisfied that the compensation offered by 
HSBC was fair and reasonable. The investigator explained to Mr and Mrs S that HSBC was 
entitled to rely on the opinion of its surveyor, and that reasons had been given by the 
surveyor as to why Mr and Mrs Ss challenge didnt succeed. Overall, the investigator 
thought the compensation offered by HSBC (£250 in total) was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Whilst they acknowledge they accepted the product at a 90% LTV, Mr and Mrs S 
feel the compensation offered by HSBC is too low. They consider £450 to £1,000 to be more 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator. These are my 
reasons.
Ive looked at the timeline of events. I see that the initial enquiry was made in late January 
2020, when an agreement in principle was issued. An application was begun, but I see that 
further documentation was needed for income verification before it could proceed. I also note 
that Mr and Mrs S had unsecured credit that affected the amount HSBC was able to lend. As 
a result, Mr and Mrs S decided to pay off those creditors. Mr and Mrs S werent able to 
confirm this had been done until 9 March 2020. The application proceeded the following 
week. 
On 30 March 2020 HSBC paid Mr and Mrs S £100 because theyd complained about delays. 
But from the banks contact records, it seems to me that the application took some time 
during this initial phase due to Mr and Mrs S needing to verify income and resolve the 
position with their unsecured creditors, rather than any errors by HSBC.
The application was ready to proceed after that, but, unfortunately, due to the pandemic, 
things took much longer than anticipated. This was outside the control of HSBC. There was 
also a delay in the mortgage offer being issued because Mr and Mrs S challenged the 
valuation  as they were entitled to do. But this resulted in a back-and-forth of emails which 
held up the process even further. 
In relation to the valuation, this was carried out by an independent third party, not a member 
of HSBCs staff. The bank isnt an expert in property valuations, so I think it was reasonable for the bank to instruct a qualified surveyor. HSBCs role was to ensure that the valuer was 
properly qualified. The valuation was carried out for HSBC by an independent surveyor, a 
Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. As such, Im satisfied HSBC was 
entitled to rely on his expert opinion. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the surveyors opinion. But I note that, in response 
to their challenge, the surveyor provided a response as to why he disagreed with the 
comparable properties Mr and Mrs S had put forward. As the surveyor stated, information 
from property portals is not the same as property valuations. So although I understand why 
Mr and Mrs S thought their property was worth more than the valuer stated, the evidence 
they provided for this didnt satisfy the surveyor that this was the case. 
Ive also been provided with no persuasive evidence that any perceived delay by HSBC in 
processing the application between January 2020 and May 2020 (when the valuation was 
carried out) resulted in the property falling £50,000 in value. 
Im satisfied that HSBC acted reasonably in putting forward Mr and Mrs Ss challenge for the 
surveyor to answer. But ultimately HSBC was entitled to rely on the surveyors expert 
opinion on the valuation of the property. In the circumstances, I dont think HSBC has acted 
unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs S accepted the 90% LTV mortgage offer, although I note they regret having 
done so and have said it was because they needed the money. But it was open to them to 
have rejected the offer and gone to another lender, if they thought they could raise the 
money they needed at a 75% LTV.
HSBC has offered a further £150 for trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs S by the length 
of time the application took. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and 
Im not ordering HSBC to pay anything else or reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the difference in 
interest theyre paying on their 90% LTV mortgage product as against the 75% LTV product 
they wanted, but ultimately didnt qualify for.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S were expecting, but I hope my explanation 
clarifies why I think HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc (£100 already paid and an offer of a further 
£150) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs S to 
decide if they want to accept this in full and final settlement of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman