DRN-2022977
The complaint
 Mr L complains that he was mis sold a motorbike insurance policy by Saga Services Limited 
trading as Bennetts. (Bennetts) The policy included a compulsory garaging requirement 
which Mr L says didnt suit his needs. Mr L also complains that policy document wasnt sent 
to him by post as he had requested, and so he was unable to check the policy terms.       
 
What happened
 In June 2018 Mr L used a comparison website to obtain quotes for the new motorbike he 
was buying. One favourable quote was from Bennetts, so he telephoned them to discuss the 
policy further and make a purchase.  
In the first call Mr L made to Bennetts, he advised them that the motorbike was not going to 
be garaged as he lives in a mews property and the garage is often blocked, so it would not 
be practical to garage it. He also discussed various locks and his no claims discount. Mr L 
did not purchase the policy during that call as there was a query over his no claims discount 
that he wanted to clarify. He was advised to check it and request a new online quote. 
Mr L made a second call to Bennetts a couple of days later to discuss the policy when he 
had the no claims information. However, he did not complete the purchase as he did not 
have the registration number of the vehicle. 
On 23 June 2018, the day Mr L was collecting the motorbike, he made a call to Bennetts 
during which he purchased the policy. During that call Mr L asked to make two amendments 
to the policy. The first was to increase the mileage allowance, and the second was that the 
motorbike would be stored inside the property. He made a further change towards the end of 
the call to include a pillion rider. A quote was provided on that basis, and Mr L accepted and 
paid for the policy over the phone. Mr L asked for the policy documents to be sent to him by 
post and the adviser agreed.  
The documents were not sent by post but were e mailed to the e mail address that Mr L had 
provided. 
In October 2018 Mr Ls motorbike was knocked over outside his property by a neighbour, 
and he rang Bennetts to obtain a further copy of his policy document as he hadnt received 
the postal copy. With his consent, a further copy was e mailed to him. This claim was a no 
fault claim. 
In April 2019 Mr Ls motorbike was stolen from outside his property between the hours of 
10pm and 6am. Bennetts refused the claim due to the motorbike not being garaged in 
accordance with the terms of the policy. 
Mr L complained to Bennetts that he had been mis sold the policy as he wouldnt have 
agreed to it if hed realised that the bike needed to be garaged. He said that he wasnt fully 
aware of the terms as he hadnt received the policy documents by post as requested. He 
also complained that he was given misleading information in October about whether he 
could receive a postal copy of the policy, and that his cancellation rights were not explained 
to him.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ls complaint and recommended that Bennetts 
pay Mr L £50 in respect of not providing the policy documents by post as requested.
However, he didnt think the policy had been mis sold. He thought that Mr L was aware of 
the garaging requirement in the policy from the telephone calls with Bennetts and that hed 
received an e mail copy of the policy which contained the details about the term.  
  
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im only dealing with the mis selling and related issues, not the decision to refuse the claim. 
I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether Bennetts have mis sold the policy. I need to look at what 
happened when the policy was taken out, and whether the information provided to Mr L was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
I also need to consider whether Bennetts highlighted the exclusions and limitations of the 
policy to ensure Mr L was fully informed of them. 
I have considered the documents provided by both Mr L and by Bennetts and Ive also 
listened carefully to the calls that Mr L made when he was considering purchasing the policy, 
including the call in which he made the purchase. 
In the first call that Mr L made to Bennetts, he told them that he would not be keeping the 
motorbike in the garage, and described the impracticalities of this because of his garage 
being blocked. The initial quote he received was provided on that basis. 
However, in the call on 23 June 2018  when he purchased the policy, Mr L specifically told  
the adviser that he wanted to make a change to the policy because he will now be keeping 
the motorbike indoors. He said We have decided that we are going to pull it inside now so it 
will be garaged. He further describes that the front doors are double doors as it is a mews 
property and the motorbike will be inside them. The policy is discussed further, and then the 
adviser read out the terms of the policy to Mr L. She read out the endorsements, including 
the compulsory garaging term. She told him that the policy would not cover him for theft 
unless between 10pm to 6am the vehicle is kept in a locked building. Mr L acknowledged 
what he was told by responding Yes.  
In view of this, I am satisfied that Mr L wasnt mis sold the policy. Mr L actively requested the 
change to the policy to include the compulsory garaging term, and the effect of that term was 
described to him during the call. I consider that the information provided to him was clear 
and fair and consistent with the request hed made about the change to the policy. 
Mr L did request that the documents were sent by post, and this didnt take place. However, 
he was sent an e mail copy on two occasions, and whilst this wasnt his preference, he was 
in possession of a copy of the policy and could have reviewed the terms if he wished. Mr L 
has said that because he didnt have a paper copy of the policy he was unable to review the terms. Had he done so, he believes he would have reflected on it and considered it too 
restrictive. 
Whilst Mr L may have reflected on the policy after it was purchased and cover commenced, 
it doesnt affect my decision that at the point of the sale the policy was sold appropriately and 
fairly. I also dont agree that Mr L was unable to review the policy if he wished to do so. He 
had an e mail copy, and he could have asked again for a paper one but didnt do so until the 
first incident some months later. At that point he was provided with another e mail copy 
which he could have read and considered.  
I do agree, however, that Bennetts have made an error in not providing a paper copy when 
it was requested and I also consider that they provided incorrect information about the 
availability of a paper copy in October 2018. 
I understand that following our investigators recommendation that £50 should be paid in 
respect of this issue, Bennetts have already made that payment. I consider that this payment 
is sufficient to reflect the inconvenience caused by not having a paper copy, and by having 
to request it, so I do not propose to award anything additional. 
The final point raised by Mr L is that his cancellation rights were not properly explained to 
him. Again, I have listened to the call from 23 June in which the policy was purchased, and 
the adviser clearly reads out the cancellation rights and charges. I am satisfied that this 
explanation was full and as required by regulations.   
My final decision
 I will not therefore be asking Saga Services Limited trading as Bennetts to do anything 
further. 
They have paid £50 to Mr L in respect of their failure to provide a paper copy of the policy 
when requested, and I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman