DRN-3475113
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has refused to provide cover for a legal 
expenses claim he has made under his home insurance policy. 
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Aviva I mean both the underwriter and any agents 
acting on its behalf.
Background
In June 2021 Mr J brought a case against his previous employer to the Employment Tribunal 
the costs of which he successfully claimed for under his legal expenses insurance. The 
Employment Tribunal didnt find in Mr Js favour and he lost his case. In January 2022 Mr J 
contacted Aviva again as he wanted to appeal the Tribunals judgement and claim under his 
policy again to cover the legal costs linked to the appeal. 
Aviva declined Mr Js claim in January 2022 as it said it was linked to the same issue that it 
provided cover for in June 2021. It said the policy only provided cover for a single claim 
regarding the same issue and so he wasnt entitled to claim a second time.
Mr J disagreed with Aviva and said that the second claim was a different case and that he 
was entitled to a second indemnity amount. He believed the appeal would be successful and 
involved a different argument and so should be treated as a new and separate claim. 
Aviva continued to say Mr Js claim was excluded under its policys terms and conditions and 
refused to provide him with cover under the policy.
Unhappy with Avivas decision Mr J brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Js complaint and found that Aviva had applied the exclusion 
fairly and that the policy didnt provide him cover for the appeal. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so the case has been passed to me for consideration. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably in declining Mr Js January 2022 
claim. I know this has been an extremely difficult and distressing time for Mr J and his family 
and I want to assure him I understand how important this issue is for him and how 
disappointing this decision will be. 
In order to decide whether or not Aviva has acted reasonably and applied the terms of its 
policy fairly, Ive considered what exclusion it has relied on and why.
The legal expenses cover included in Mr Js Home Insurance policy sets out various 
exclusions where cover will not be provided to policy holders. Within that section it says the 
following:
Legal Services Cover Exclusions 
The following are excluded from this cover, so we will not be liable for: 
d. claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this policy 
happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on your schedule. You 
can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the same incident.
Aviva has said that Mr Js appeal is linked to the same dispute he brought against his 
previous employer in June 2021. As such it says that the claim is excluded due to the above 
wording which limits claim holders from making more than one claim for disputes linked to 
the same incident. 
Mr J believes that the first claim was linked to the first hearing and that the appeal is a 
separate and different hearing, and so the above exclusion shouldnt apply. 
I understand why Mr J feels this way, its likely that the appeal hearing will take place in front 
of a different judge and there will be a different process that Mr J will need to follow in order 
for this second hearing to take place. However, the issue here isnt whether or not the 
process is different, but what the basis of the claim is. And Mr J is ultimately still bringing a 
claim against his previous employer for the same reasons and that is why he is appealing 
the initial decision. In fact, its not possible to include new issues as part of an appeal to the 
Employment Tribunal. Claimants are limited on relying on the facts as presented in the first 
hearing and no new evidence can be submitted at appeal. So, the appeal hearing will review 
the same evidence that was presented in the initial hearing and will reconsider Mr Js case 
without any changes to the facts as they were set out in June 2021.
And because the basis of Mr Js appeal is still the same, i.e. the dispute between him and 
his previous employer, it is arising out of the same issue and likely considered part of the 
same proceedings. And for that reason, I cant say that Aviva has acted unreasonably in how 
it has applied the above exclusion and I cant ask it to provide cover for Mr J in regard to his 
appeal.
I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Mr J and that his case against his previous 
employer is linked to a prolonged period of ill health and financial uncertainty. I hope that he 
understands why I have reached the outcome that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman