DRN-2371364
The complaint
Mr T complains that Starling Bank Limited closed his bank account and wont return money 
held in the account to him. 
What happened
Mr T had an account with Starling. On 5 July 2019, a faster payment for just over £4,000 
was made into Mr Ts account. The payment reference wasnt in Mr Ts name.
Starling took the view that it needed to look into the payment and how Mr T was operating 
his account. So, the bank blocked Mr Ts account whilst it did that. Starling spoke to Mr T 
and asked him about the payment. Mr T said the payment was from a friend whod owed him 
some money.  He said his friend had made a mistake and put the wrong reference name on 
the payment. Mr T gave the bank a letter from his friend and a copy of her bank statement to 
show he was entitled to the funds and it was a legitimate payment. 
Starling contacted the sending bank and were told that its customer had said theyd been 
overpaid by her employer and had to return the money to Mr Ts account. Starling reviewed 
the information Mr T had provided along with the information provided by the sending bank. 
It wasnt satisfied it showed Mr T was entitled to the money. So, it didnt release the funds to 
him.
Mr T wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. The investigator reviewed the information Mr T had 
provided and agreed with the banks assessment. He also said that Starling hadnt done 
anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr Ts account. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. And he wants his money. He explained hed suffered a great deal 
of stress, upset and financial hardship as a result of the banks actions. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats hes 
said to us and to Starling. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ts frustration, its important to point out that 
the only thing in question here is whether Starling has done what it should have done. And I 
think it has. Ill explain why.
The investigator was right to point out that Starling has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Staling may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Starling didnt 
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Starling to block Mr Ts account. Starling has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same 
situation  a payment had been made into Mr Ts account which didnt appear to have been 
meant for him. And it enabled Starling to consider how best to react to the information it had 
received from the sending bank about the payment and the information Mr T provided to the 
bank. Im also satisfied that Starling was complying with its obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr Ts account. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr T inconvenience, I cant say 
Starling treated him unfairly.
Mr T says the money going into his account on 5 July 2019, was money he was owed from a 
friend. In support of what hes said, Mr Ts provided two letters from his friend, a screen shot 
and statement of her bank account. And hes explained that his friend simply made a 
mistake and put the wrong name in the payment reference instead of his. But having looked 
at the paperwork I can understand why the bank had concerns. 
I say this because the two letters Mr T has produced have two different signatures  one 
appears to be electronic and the other handwritten. Mr T also hasnt provided a detailed 
explanation for why the payment had a different name as a reference. The sending banks 
customer also provided a different explanation about the payment to what Mr T has said.  He 
says the money was repayment for money hed lent a friend. However, the sending banks 
customer said they were returning overpayment of wages. But I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest Mr T employed the individual whod sent the payment. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr T had lent the money as hes suggested. 
It maybe that Mr T can now provide more information about the funds in his account to the 
bank.  But, in the circumstances, I can understand why Starling wanted to know more about 
the funds that were paid into his account. I can understand too why it didnt consider Mr T 
had adequately explained his entitlement to the money. So, I cant say Starling has done 
anything wrong when it decided not to release the money to Mr T. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ts account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Starling closed Mr Ts accounts without notice. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Mr T was operating his account. So, it was entitled to 
close the account as it has already done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr T when Starling blocked and closed 
his account. And didnt release funds to him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I dont believe Starling acted unreasonably or treated Mr T unfairly in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman