DRN-2037890
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited has discriminated against him by refusing to allow 
a Power of Attorney (PoA) to be registered on his account. Mr C is represented by Mr G.
What happened
Mr C says he opened a Starling account and says its website said an account holder would 
be supported under a PoA for using telephone and mobile banking. He says Starling told him 
it couldnt register a PoA and would have to close his account. Mr C says that is a breach of 
the Equality Act 2010 and that Starling is required to make reasonable adjustments. He says 
he has been caused upset and frustration and would like Starling to pay compensation and 
make those reasonable adjustments.
Starling says Mr C complained about not being able to use an application(app) that it isnt 
able to allow third party access to. It says its website says if there is a question about PoAs 
then it can be contacted by telephone or mobile banking. And says at present it cant allow 
PoAs to be registered as Mr C would like, as its systems dont allow it and so such 
adjustments would not be reasonable.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think it was our role to decide if the Equality Act had been breached and didnt think 
Starlings website was misleading. The investigator didnt think Starling had misled Mr C and 
didnt think there was any contact before the account was opened.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says we must consider the relevant law and 
says the decision to close his account must be unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Starling has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly 
he feels about what has taken place. I also make clear that I have considered the Equality 
Act but its for a court to decide if that Act has been breached.
Im satisfied that Starling has fairly explained that at present its systems dont allow it to 
authorise third party account users or to allow access to the app Mr C wanted his PoA to 
have. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration in those circumstances and I also appreciate that 
information is not made clear by Starling in its account opening process. But I cant fairly 
order Starling to change its process as Mr C would like when its clear it wouldnt be able at 
this stage to comply with such an order.
I dont think Starlings website says it does allow the type of account access Mr C wanted but 
says any queries about PoAs can be dealt with by contact via telephone or mobile banking. I 
have said that Starling could have avoided Mr Cs time being wasted by making it clear what 
its position about third party access is at the application stage or on its website. And I dont 
think Mr C was misled in those circumstances as I dont think he spoke to Starling before the 
account was opened.
I appreciate that Mr C says Starling ought to make reasonable adjustments to avoid any 
form of discrimination and I agree under the Equality Act it should. But I cant see what 
Starling could do in these circumstances to help Mr C or those in his position when at this 
stage its systems dont support such adjustments. 
Overall, I appreciate Mr Cs frustration and concern, but Im satisfied that it is not our role to 
decide if there was a breach of the Equality Act and I think Starling has fairly explained the 
reasons why it cant help Mr C any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman