DRN-1151573
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited sent him an email offering a limit increase on his 
credit card account which he thinks was misleading and unfair.
What happened
Mr C has a credit card with Vanquis Bank and it sent him an email saying that he was 
eligible to have a credit limit increase. This was subject to him qualifying for this and Vanquis 
asked Mr C to provide information so that it could assess whether an increase was 
affordable for him. 
Mr C complained as he said the wording of the email came across as misleading and was 
false advertising. He believed he was being offered an increase which he could accept, but 
when he clicked on the link in the email, he was asked to give information and was told that 
Vanquis would let him know if it would agree the increase for him within 24 hours.
Vanquis said that, although it didnt believe it had made any errors, it understood why Mr C 
found the wording it used when offering the credit limit increase to be misleading. It said that 
it wanted to make sure that customers are able to afford repayments if they spend up to the 
new higher limit. Vanquis sent Mr C a cheque for £25 as an apology for any distress he was 
caused. It said that had actioned his request to be removed from receiving any future offers 
of credit limit increases. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
said they wouldnt expect Vanquis to provide a credit limit increase without checking whether 
this was affordable for the customer. The investigator didnt think Vanquis had intended on 
causing Mr C inconvenience; but it had apologised and sent him £25 in compensation, which 
they thought was fair.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said that no other credit card provider offers a credit limit increase and then asks the 
customer to apply for it. He said this was misleading and out of line with banking regulations 
as other providers offered the increase to the credit limit for the customer to accept or reject.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about this, particularly if hes had limit increases 
offered by other credit card providers, but hasnt had to provide more information in order to 
accept this.
Ive looked at the email about the credit limit increase which Mr C was sent because of the 
way hed managed his account. This says:We want to make sure this increase is right for you now. When you contact us well ask you 
some simple questions about your income and expenses. 
And under the increased amount offered, it says this would be subject to eligibility.
It also says that he didnt need to do anything if he wanted to stay on his existing credit limit 
 giving him the option not to contact Vanquis about it, or not to click on the link within the 
email.
I dont think this is misleading in that it would lead Mr C to believe he was accepting the offer 
of a limit increase without Vanquis first asking questions to make sure it was right for him. 
Vanquis was offering Mr C access to a higher level of available credit, so I dont think the 
actions Vanquis took were irresponsible or unfair when it was looking to make sure this 
would be affordable for Mr C as it is required to do.
However, Vanquis has said that it understood why Mr C felt the wording of this email came 
across as misleading to him. And it has apologised, both over the phone and in writing, and 
sent him a cheque for £25 to recognise any distress or inconvenience this matter caused 
him. It has also actioned his request not to receive such offers in the future.
Taking everything into account, I think this represents a fair resolution to Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman