DRN-2556158
The complaint
Miss H complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) 
defaulted her account and sold it to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Miss H had a credit card from Cashplus since 2014. She was made bankrupt in October 
2016. In 2019, Cashplus defaulted her account and passed it to a debt collection agency.
Miss H complained to this service in March 2020. She said shed been made bankrupt in 
October 2016. She was being supported by Citizens Advice Bureau and she said they put 
the Cashplus debt on her statement of affairs that went to her creditors. So, the Cashplus 
debt shouldve been dealt with in her bankruptcy. She said the default registered by 
Cashplus was wrong and the debt shouldnt have been passed to a debt collection agency.
 We asked Cashplus to look into it and issue its response. In April 2020, they said they 
hadnt received any information about Miss Hs bankruptcy. They had been contacted by 
Citizens Advice  but only asking for her balance. A default notice was sent to Miss H on 30 
July 2019. On 31 January 2020, her account was sold to a debt collection agency. They said 
theyd consider backdating any actions if they saw evidence of Miss Hs bankruptcy.
Miss H bought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened. In September 2020 he said the credit card hadnt been used since February 2016 
and Miss H had stopped making repayments to the account. So, it appeared that the debt 
shouldve been written off in the bankruptcy. He said the account should be written off and 
the default date set back to the date of the bankruptcy  October 2016. This was in line with 
ICO guidance.
Cashplus initially accepted this, and then asked that Miss Hs complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has shown us the bankruptcy order dated 13 October 2016. We would normally 
expect all debts to be included in the bankruptcy  so that everything can be dealt with. Miss 
H told us that shes certain the Cashplus debt was listed when Citizens Advice put her 
statement of affairs together. She doesnt have the Citizens Advice papers. If this was the 
case, Cashplus wouldve been advised of the bankruptcy and the debt would then have 
been dealt with within it. Cashplus say they werent aware of Miss Hs bankruptcy, so they 
couldnt have done this. So, they went ahead and defaulted her account and sold it to a debt 
collection agency.
I can see that the card wasnt used for purchases after February 2016. There were no 
repayments made after then either. So, the debt was dormant. The balance in June 2016 
was £1088.77 debit. I can see that there were several calls made to Miss H in March 2016 
and April 2016. There were also letters and texts sent to her between March 2016 and June 
2016. On 16 May 2016, Cashplus records show there was a call from Miss H and a credit 
freeze was agreed. But nothing after that. We have asked Cashplus for a copy of the default 
notice that they sent to Miss H. We also asked them for the letters they received from 
Citizens Advice  which asked for the balance of the account. Unfortunately, theyve not 
sent these to us.
Where bankruptcy is concerned, the Information commissioner (ICO)s guidance is that any 
default should be registered alongside the bankruptcy order.
We know that Miss H is struggling with her health. We cannot be absolutely certain what 
happened here. But on balance Im persuaded that its likely that Cashplus were aware of 
Miss Hs bankruptcy and should have dealt with her debt at that time. 
So, I ask Cashplus to take the debt back from the debt collection agency and write it off. 
They should remove the default registered in 2019 and enter it at the new date - October 
2016. I hope that Cashplus can see that this is the most pragmatic way forward here.
Putting things right
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus should take the debt back from 
the debt collection agency and write it off. And amend Miss Hs credit file to remove the 
default in 2019  and show it as October 2016. 
We will send a copy of Miss Hs bankruptcy order to Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should take the debt back from the debt collection 
agency and write it off. And amend Miss Hs credit file to remove the default in 2019  and 
show it as October 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman