DRN-3947508
The complaint
Ms K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she lost, after she fell 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, Ms K fell victim to a safe account scam on 20 July 2022 where she transferred 
£3,403.16 from HSBC to her other bank account (subject of a separate complaint) then from 
there on to the scammer.
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. He didnt think the transaction ought to have 
led to HSBC intervening. 
Ms K did not agree. As the case couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms K was the victim of a scam and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to recover the money she has lost. Shes lost a lot of money through no fault of 
her own. But that alone doesnt mean that HSBC must reimburse her. Its important to 
emphasise that Im only considering whether HSBC, which had no involvement in the scam 
itself, should be held responsible for what happened.
Its not in debate that Ms K has fallen victim to a particularly cruel scam. The fraudsters 
made her believe her money was at risk and she needed to move it to a safe account.
From what Ms K has told us, she transferred everything she had into this scam. But as part 
of this complaint, I am only able to consider whether HSBC has any responsibility to refund 
the £3,403.16 that was transferred from Ms Ks HSBC account.
I can only compel HSBC to refund Ms K if it is responsible for the loss incurred. Having 
carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can see no basis on which I can 
fairly say that HSBC should be held liable for some or all of Ms Ks loss. I will explain why.
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Ms K made the 
payment herself. This means that it was an authorised payment, even though Ms K did not 
intend for this money to go to fraudsters.
I agree the loss did not occur directly from Ms Ks HSBC account but, taking into account the 
law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I still consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
This means that HSBC should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations 
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Ms K was potentially at 
risk of falling victim to fraud as a result of the payment, or otherwise done more to protect 
her.
HSBC did not identify the payment Ms K made as being out of character or suspicious at the 
time. When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of character, 
its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to strike between 
identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and allowing 
customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary disruptions.
I appreciate the transfer was larger than usual and the account balance reduced to zero, but 
I dont consider the payment Ms K made would have stood out enough to the bank to be 
considered unusual or suspicious. With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that the 
payment Ms K made was going to be lost to fraud. But when Ms K sent the money, this 
wouldnt have been obvious to HSBC. The payment was being sent to her own account 
elsewhere and unremarkable (although I appreciate it is a lot of money to Ms K). So I dont 
think the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC ought to have refunded the loss for any other reason, 
and in particular, whether HSBC ought to have reimbursed Ms K under the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which HSBC 
is signatory to. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. 
The CRM Code only covers scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another 
person and not to a consumers own account. In this case, Ms K sent the money to her own 
account held with another institution. This means I dont think HSBC is responsible for 
reimbursing her because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Having carefully considered everything, there is not enough here for me to think HSBC 
should have suspected Ms K might be the victim of a potential scam at the time she made 
the payment. As the funds went to Ms Ks own account elsewhere and then on from there, 
there was little opportunity for HSBC to recover those funds or find out more specific details 
about where they are now. 
I know my outcome is going to come as a disappointment to Ms K. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Ms K isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there 
are any other grounds on which I could say that HSBC should bear the responsibility for the 
loss.My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman