DRN-3615387
The complaint
Mr D complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison), trading as 118 118 Money, 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card account he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr D entered into an agreement with Madison to have access to credit with a card account 
that was opened for him in 2018. The account had an opening credit limit of £250. 
Mr D says that Madison didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says that had it done so, Madison would have seen he had a history of bad 
debt. 
Madison didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Mr Ds financial circumstances before granting him the account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Madison didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
Mr D didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Madison will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Prior to providing credit to Mr D, Madison says it carried out a credit check. Madison said the 
results of this satisfied it that Mr D could afford a credit limit of £250. From what Ive seen, I 
think Madison gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information from Mr D about 
his ability to repay his account. This included asking him about his income and regular 
expenditure, using statistical data and completing a credit check using credit reference 
agencies. These checks showed he already had around £12,000 in unsecured borrowing 
and ongoing credit commitments. It also showed hed had two defaults against him within the 
previous 12 months. 
There isnt set criteria for what a proportionate check ought to encompass. Given that 
Madison was proposing to give Mr D a modest limit of £250 which, if used, would require 
only small monthly repayments, I dont think it was essential for it to verify Mr Ds income or 
ask about his other committed expenditure (outside of the credit commitments the credit 
check would have shown). Having said that, I agree with our adjudicator that it could have 
taken such steps in light of his recent defaults. So Ill consider what it might have found. 
From the information Ive seen about Mr Ds financial situation, there isnt enough to 
persuade me that Madison would or should have seen that his circumstances were in 
such a state as to make giving him a credit facility of £250 unreasonable. The bank 
statement information Ive seen suggests that had Madison taken steps to verify Mr Ds 
income, it likely would have seen he was in receipt of monthly income of around £2,200. 
Mr D was generally in control of  managing his daily outgoings and credit commitments 
and would likely have been left with enough disposable income to be able to make 
affordable repayments on the card. 
I therefore think that had Madison carried out further reasonable and proportionate 
checks, these would most likely have shown that Mr D could afford the credit he was 
granted.
It follows that Im not persuaded that Madison acted unfairly in approving the opening of the 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman