DRN-3065252
The complaint
Mr L complains that esure Insurance Limited failed to return personal items that were left in 
his car after an accident.
What happened
Mr L had a car insurance policy with esure. In April 2020, his car was written off after an 
accident. esure settled the claim and its agent disposed of the car.
esures agent returned some personal items left in the car to Mr L. However, Mr L said that 
while two items were returned to him, several others, including sentimental items, werent. 
He emailed esure nine times in March/April 2020 to ask for their return.
esure acknowledged that it told Mr L it would call him and transfer him to its agent to discuss 
the missing items  Mr L didnt want to call the agent directly on a premium rate number  
but failed to do this. However, it didnt find any evidence that any of Mr Ls possessions had 
been left in the car and noted that Mr L was unable to provide a list of these. It offered him 
£100 to apologise for its poor service.
Mr L didnt accept this. He said it was esures responsibility to return the items to him and 
estimated the value of the missing items (CDs, Sunglasses, personal documents, 
electronics, personal mementoes) at between £200 and £250. He complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it 
would be fair to ask esure to compensate Mr L for items he couldnt list. She agreed that 
esure was at fault for not calling Mr L after promising to do this but thought its offer of £100 
to apologise for poor service was fair. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says he cant provide evidence of the missing items because they werent expensive, 
just normal items people might keep in their car. I can accept that. However, Im afraid I dont 
agree with him that esure should increase its compensation offer for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator.
Mr L was unable to provide a list of the belongings he says werent returned to him. That 
surprises me given Mr L says these items were of some sentimental value. It also makes it 
very difficult for me to try to value these items. I dont think Mr L can arbitrarily set a figure of 
£200-250 for items he cant remember.
In any event, theres no evidence these items were in the car when esures agent disposed 
of it. The photos taken by the agent arent any help here  they dont show any items in the 
car. But I think its odd that esures agent would return some but not all Mr Ls belongings, 
particularly if these werent particularly valuable and/or only of any worth to Mr L.
I agree that esure should have followed up its offer to call Mr L and transfer him to its 
recovery agent to discuss the missing items. I also think it should have replied to his emails 
on 20 and 23 April 2020. 
However, Im satisfied that esures offer of £100 to apologise for this is fair. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman