DRN-2674404
The complaint
Mr C and Ms N complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited avoided their buildings
insurance policy (treated it like it had never existed) and refused to deal with their claim. 
What happened
Mr C and Ms N took out a buildings insurance policy with Tesco through a price comparison
website. This was in 2014.
They continued to renew with Tesco each year, and in September 2019 Mr C noticed a
cracked skylight in the kitchen and some internal damage. He notified Tesco and put in a
claim. Tesco sent their expert to the house. When the report came back, Tesco declined the
claim. They said that the report confirmed the roof at Mr C and Ms Ns house as being 100%
flat, and this was unacceptable to Tesco.
Tesco said that Mr C had answered the question he had been asked about the percentage
of the roof that was flat incorrectly. And Tesco considered this to be a careless qualifying
misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid the policy from its inception date in 2014 and
refund all the premiums Mr C and Ms N had paid.
Mr C wasnt happy about this and complained to Tesco. He said that the house was a new
build in 2014, and he had asked the builder to confirm the flat roof percentage prior to taking
out the insurance, as he didnt want to give inaccurate information. The builder had
confirmed that the whole roof was low pitch with a slope of six degrees. So, Mr C answered
Tescos question by saying that none of his roof was flat. And he felt this was correct as the
builder had confirmed it had a slope. Tesco didnt change their decision. They explained that
a flat roof is any roof with a slope of less than ten degrees, therefore the whole of Mr C and
Ms Ns roof should have been declared as flat.
Mr C and Ms N brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She
said that she didnt think Mr C had answered the questions correctly when he took out the
policy in 2014. She said there had been a qualifying misrepresentation, and she agreed with
Tesco that this was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. She said that it was fair that
Tesco had avoided Mr C and Ms Ns policy back to its inception date, declined his claim and
refunded all the premiums Mr C and Ms N had paid.
Mr C and Ms N didnt accept this, so it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 25 February 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to require
Tesco to reinstate the policy and deal with the claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Tesco think Mr C and Ms N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when they took out the insurance policy in 2014. They have said that Mr C answered the
question regarding the roof incorrectly, as the house has a flat roof.
The question Mr C was asked in 2014 when he arranged the policy was What percentage of
your roof is flat? and he was provided with a range of different answers. The range started
at none and went up incrementally until the final option of over 50%. There wasnt any
additional information provided to explain what the definition of a flat roof is, or what Mr C
should consider when answering this question.
Mr C and Ms N were buying a newly built house, so at the time he was looking for a policy
some of the information wasnt known to Mr C. Prior to committing to the policy with Tesco,
Mr C asked the builder some questions about the house  one of which was what
percentage of the roof is flat? The builder replied a couple of days later to confirm that 100
per cent of the roof is low pitch (6 degrees).
Based on this information from the builder of the house Mr C answered the question on the
price comparison site as none, confirming that the roof at the house wasnt flat. I think this
is a reasonable answer for Mr C to give, considering there wasnt any further information
made available to him to confirm how a flat roof is defined. And Im satisfied that, had Mr C
been asked the question in a different way  for example, if he had been asked to confirm
what percentage of the roof sloped less than 10 degrees  he would have answered the
question correctly. By asking the builder prior to taking out the policy, Mr C has taken
reasonable care to try and avoid a qualifying misrepresentation.
Tesco have said that Mr C could have easily checked online for the definition of a flat roof if
he was unsure of its meaning. But I dont think Mr C was unsure at that point. I think he was
unsure prior to purchasing the policy, and that is why he asked the builder of the house to
clarify the information. But I think its taking reasonable care to ask the builder of the house
for the information about it, and to accept what the builder provides as accurate.
As Im satisfied that Mr C and Ms N took reasonable care not to make a qualifying
misrepresentation, Tesco need to do something to put things right. They have avoided Mr C
and Ms Ns policy back to its inception date in 2014, placed this on the insurance databases
so Mr C and Ms N have to declare it to any new insurer and refunded them the total
premiums paid of £3,042.85. Tesco also declined to deal with the claim.
To put Mr C and Ms N back into the position they would have been in had Tesco not decided
a qualifying misrepresentation had been made Im asking them to reinstate the policy from
its inception date in 2014, to its latest renewal date in December 2020. As Im saying Mr C
and Ms N should have been insured for that period of time, its reasonable to ask them to
repay the insurance premiums theyve received as a refund.
Im also asking Tesco to remove any record of the policy avoidance from any insurance
databases. Mr C and Ms N will not have to disclose this avoidance for any future insurance
policies they take.Having spoken to Mr C I know that the damage to the skylight hasnt been fixed. As I think
Mr C and Ms Ns policy shouldnt have been avoided, Tesco now need to deal with the claim
subject to the policy conditions and any relevant policy excess.
Mr C feels that he and Ms N should be awarded some compensation. Ive thought about this
but dont think its warranted in this case. Mr C has confirmed that he hasnt insured the
house since his policy with Tesco was avoided. So, even though Im satisfied Tesco avoided
the policy incorrectly, it hasnt had any financial impact on Mr C and Ms N, nor have they
suffered any detriment as a result of Tescos actions.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr C and Ms N are happy that they wont have to declare any policy avoidance to future 
insurers. But theyre unhappy they havent been awarded any compensation. Theyve said 
that theyve been without natural light for 15 months as theyve had to cover the leak in the 
skylight with plastic. Theyve also mentioned the stress of having difficulty insuring their 
house, as well as the many hours theyve spent on the complaint. Mr C would like the 
excess on the claim to be waived, if compensation isnt going to be considered. 
Tesco said they felt their decision to avoid the policy was the correct one. Theyve said that, 
as far as theyre aware, a flat roof would have been defined by the price comparison 
website. Theyve also said that, by looking at the roof on Mr C and Ms Ns house, you can 
see it meets the definition of a flat roof. Tesco think it would have been reasonable for Mr C 
to have asked his builder at the time if he was unsure as its Mr C and Ms Ns responsibility 
to know this information about their house. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained why I didnt think compensation was warranted in my provisional decision. Mr C 
and Ms N havent insured their house since this policy was avoided. That is a decision that 
theyve made, and I cant hold Tesco responsible for any stress theyve felt as a result of 
this. 
I understand Mr C and Ms Ns concern about the lack of natural light for the last 15 months. 
But they had the option to repair the skylight when the claim was declined. I cant hold Tesco 
responsible for Mr C and Ms N not doing this. 
Making a complaint can be stressful and can involve a lot of communication. I wont be 
awarding compensation for this. And the policy excess is a condition of the policy. As Im 
saying the policy shouldnt have been avoided and the claim should now be dealt with, its 
reasonable to ask Mr C and Ms N to pay the policy excess. 
My provisional decision already answers the response provided by Tesco. Ive explained the 
exact question Mr C and Ms N were asked when they took out the policy in 2014, and that 
there wasnt any additional information provided to them. Ive also explained that Mr C spoke 
to his builder prior to answering the question regarding the percentage of flat roof at his 
house, and Im pleased that Tesco agree that was a reasonable thing for him to do. 
I havent seen anything to suggest my provisional decision needs to change. 
My final decisionFor the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited must:
Reinstate Mr C and Ms Ns policy to 2014, confirming no break in insurance cover up 
until the last renewal date in December 2020, once Mr C and Ms N have repaid 
£3,042.85;
Remove any avoidance markers from any insurance databases;
Deal with the outstanding claim, subject to the policy conditions and any policy 
excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman