DRN-3377978
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) damaged their shower 
following a claim on their home emergency policy. They would like the shower repaired by a 
competent engineer and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr M has dealt with claim and the complaint so I will just refer to him in my decision. Mr M 
noticed a stain on a ceiling below his bathroom, he thought there was a leak in the pipework 
connecting to the shower. He called Aviva and it arranged for an engineer Ill call C to attend 
the next day. C says it sealed a leaking feed pipe to the shower. However, the next day Mr 
M said it was leaking again, so he called C directly. 
What happened next is disputed. C says the inlet to the shower unit itself was leaking and on 
checking as a favour to Mr M realised specialist tools were required to investigate further. It 
said as showers were not covered by the policy it left it as it was.   
But Mr M says C removed the shower and dismantled the inlet used to join the shower unit 
to the water supply without the correct tools to do so. He says C said there was damage to a 
component which would need to be replaced. Mr M says he decided to remove the inlet on 
the other side as he wanted a deeper understanding, but that this was loose and easily 
removed despite not having the correct tool. 
Mr M said the engineer had called his office and was told that showers werent covered by 
the policy and he should refit the unit, which he did. Mr M says the engineer had swapped 
the faulty part to the other side to check if this was the issue and when the water was turned 
back on both sides now leaked. 
Mr M says the leak was now so bad he had to turn off the water to the upstairs of his house. 
He says he subsequently removed the shower unit and fitted stop caps to enable the water 
to be turned back on upstairs. He said the inlet to both sides of the shower unit had now 
been damaged and more parts were required to fix it as a result. Mr M complained to Aviva 
about what had happened and sent in photographs of the shower unit.
Aviva rejected his complaint. It said that whilst the photographs did show damage to the 
fittings, as Mr M had dismantled the shower himself there was no way of knowing whether its 
engineer had caused the damage or not. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. He said he had found and used the correct tool to 
dismantle the inlet, so he hadnt caused any damage himself. He said whilst his home had 
other showers, he and his family had been inconvenienced by what happened.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said Aviva was correct that the policy Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) 
specifically didnt provide cover for showers. Our investigator said it wasnt possible to know 
exactly what happened and there wasnt any evidence to show that the damage had been 
caused by Avivas engineer. So, it would be unreasonable to hold Aviva responsible given 
Mr M had subsequently dismantled the shower himself. 
Mr M disagreed. He said it wasnt reasonable that the engineer didnt have the right tools to 
do the job and that he had been left in a worse position than before. He said the engineer 
shouldnt have done any work which the policy didnt cover. Our investigator said he agreed 
the customer shouldnt have been left in a worse position. But said the engineer might not 
have known the shower wasnt covered and there still wasnt any evidence that the engineer 
had damaged the shower. 
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr M, so 
Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms policy didnt cover every eventuality and the T&Cs of the policy are clear that it 
doesnt provide cover for showers including the shower unit itself. 
In this complaint there is clearly damage but no direct evidence of how or who caused it 
other than the disputed accounts. When there is a dispute about what happened, our service 
considers whether there is any other evidence that supports a reasonable conclusion. C 
says it checked the shower as a favour but hadnt removed it and had left the shower as it 
was as not standard tools were required.
Im persuaded by Cs account because after it reattended Mr M rang Aviva. The notes of the 
call record Mr M queried whether the policy covered the shower. He was advised it didnt 
and was given contact details of a trades database to arrange his own plumber. And, Aviva 
says Mr M made no mention of the work and damage he says had been done that day or 
that the leak was worse as a result. I think its surprising that Mr M didnt raise this issue at 
the time even if he had been advised the policy didnt cover the shower. And I note that Mr M 
didnt go on to make his complaint with Aviva until a week later.  
And, Mr Ms photos show a lot of damage to the threads of one of the inlets and lesser 
damage to the other. I think the damage would be sufficient to make a watertight seal difficult 
to achieve. I dont think its likely that a professional plumber would attempt a workaround 
that would cause so much damage to a bespoke watertight component that would need to 
be specially ordered because theyd be aware of the consequences. 
Mr M accepts that one inlet was damaged prior to removal and needed to be replaced at his 
expense but says Aviva should be responsible for the additional costs of another valve and 
the extra labour. Mr M removed one of the valves himself, which he says was only damaged 
by C refitting it with the wrong tool. But as Mr M was already aware that C didnt have the 
tools required for either disassembly or reassembly, I think he was somewhat responsible for 
any damage if this is what happened.
The additional labour involved in replacing the second valve is quite modest, being the 
reverse of what Mr M says he did to dismantle it. The shower unit would always require 
removal to repair or replace the original leaking part, and this work is specifically not covered 
by the policy. 
So, taking everything into account as there is no evidence that C damaged the shower and 
as the repair necessary isnt covered by the policy, I dont think Aviva has treated Mr M and 
Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably and it neednt do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman