DRN-1232552
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to settle a claim he made under 
his car insurance policy as a fault claim.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr S and his wife were travelling on their way to a retail park. Mr S said he 
wasnt familiar with the town. He said he travelled down a road in a nearby industrial park. 
He pulled in to allow a car coming in the opposite direction to pass his. As Mr S drove on, 
concealed bollards came up and caused damage to his car. Mr Ss car was declared a total 
loss. 
Covea contacted the third party insurer to recover the costs of the claim. But in January 
2019 the third party said they didnt accept liability. Their representative made a claim 
against Covea for damage to their property. They said Mr S hit a self raising bollard on their 
property and subsequently the bollard got stuck underneath Mr Ss car. It seems the car that 
passed Mr Ss had exited the business property - and this is why the bollards were rising as 
Mr Ss car drove over them.
Coveas legal representatives reconsidered the claim. They decided that its prospects of 
success if they pursued the claim werent high. They said Mr S was on a private road and 
travelling in the wrong direction. So in March 2019 Covea settled the claim on a without 
prejudice basis as a fault claim against Mr S. 
In April 2019 Mr S complained to Covea. He was very unhappy about its decision and the 
fact that the claim had been recorded as such on a central database. He wanted Covea to 
refund the excess he paid under the claim. He was unhappy his premium had gone up at 
renewal even though hed protected his No Claims Bonus (NCB). He wanted Covea to 
change the recording of the claim, refund the excess to him and instruct the broker to 
change the renewal premium to either the same or lower than hed paid the previous year. 
Our investigator explained that we dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But 
she thought Covea had investigated the claim and reached its decision reasonably and in 
line with the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he believes his wifes witness account and photos of the 
location and bollards carry more weight. He said he wasnt given the opportunity to provide 
further information before Covea reached its decision. He said there was no signage to warn 
him that he was on a private road, that he was driving in the wrong direction, and that there 
were bollards. He said the bollards were concealed. 
Since the incident Mr S has driven back to the area and taken further photos. He said the 
business has since put up warning signs  but there arent any signs to say it is a one way 
street or a private road. Hes unhappy that Covea  and we  havent commented on the photos he provided. Hes also unhappy that the investigator has explained her feelings on 
the complaint, which he says are therefore subjective and not based on fact. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we cannot decide liability. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. This is a subtle 
but important distinction which we make.
I understand Mr S is unhappy with the use of language by our investigator. The use of the 
word feel is informal language our investigators use when giving an opinion on whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably or not. I appreciate Mr S disagrees with this. But this is our 
approach when forming a view on complaints that we deal with.
Mr Ss policy with Covea has a very common term Ive seen in most  if not all car insurance 
policies. It says Covea can make a decision as to how to settle a claim on behalf of Mr S. 
We dont have any objection to this term, in principle, as long as the insurers treat their 
customers fairly and reasonably when they rely on it. 
Mr S is unhappy that the account given by the third party has been given more weight than 
his. Where both parties say the other one is at fault, ultimately its a decision for the insurer 
to decide whether to settle a claim on the best terms possible or continue to pursue the 
matter in court. It can decide not to take the matter to court - with the risk of significant court 
costs  if in their opinion the chances of success arent high. This is a decision the insurer 
can make, even if Mr S disagrees with it. 
Mr Ss witness wasnt an independent party as she was a passenger known to him in his car. 
For example, if a third party was involved in a collision with Mr S, a passenger that was 
known to the third party wouldnt be considered an independent witness either. 
Mr S is unhappy that the only physical evidence available  which is the photographs he 
took at the site immediately after the incident  hasnt been considered by Covea or us. And 
that the third party hasnt provided any evidence to contradict what the photos show. 
The photos show that the bollards caused damage to Mr Ss car. The third party provided 
photos showing damage to the bollards. 
Covea said it accepts that the signage may be an issue. But the legal advice it received was 
that the chances of succeeding in court was low. I know Mr S doesnt agree with this. But the 
fact that Covea received legal advice as to how best to deal with the claim shows me that it 
properly considered the claim. I dont think Covea was unreasonable in following the legal 
advice.
In January 2019 Coveas legal representative wrote to Mr S to tell him the third party held 
him at fault for the incident. It asked Mr S to contact it and if hed recalled damaging third 
party property.
The following day they wrote to Mr S again. They said they were being pressed to settle a 
claim for the damaged bollards. They wrote:We note however that you were previously to contact the owners of the site, and take up 
with them the issue of the lack of signs, advising that the bollards could rise.
They asked Mr S to contact them in the next seven days. If they didnt receive any new 
information, they would look to settle the third partys claim for the damaged bollards. They 
said as Mr S had collided with an inanimate object , to which liability cannot be attached, this 
is how the claim would be settled - unless fault with the object could be proven. 
Mr S says he didnt receive this letter. I think thats unfortunate, but I cant say that he wasnt 
given an opportunity to provide further information before Covea reached its decision in 
March 2019. And I think Coveas legal representatives explained to Mr S that it would likely 
settle the claim as a fault claim where it couldnt prove the third party at fault. Its standard 
in the industry to record a claim where recovery of costs from a third party isnt possible as a 
fault claim.
In this case, Covea has shown that it made enquiries and obtained information from both 
parties. The third party didnt accept it was at fault for the incident. Covea decided based on 
the information it had and the legal advice it received that it was better to settle the claim as 
a fault claim on a without prejudice basis. This means that Mr S can consider legal action 
against the third party if he wishes as Covea hasnt formally accepted liability for the 
incident. But he will need to seek legal advice about that. 
Mr S says he paid a higher premium at renewal even though he protected his NCB. The 
step back table in his policy booklet explains how a claim will affect the number of years 
protected NCB he has. Covea said it has been correctly applied here. Although Mr S has 
protected the impact a claim can have on the number of years NCB hes earned, this 
doesnt mean he protects the premium from any increase.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I cant 
conclude that Covea acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22  July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman