DRN-1840968
 
The complaint
Mr Q complains that a used car supplied to him under a hire-purchase agreement by FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) was of unsatisfactory quality and unfit for purpose 
contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
What happened
In December 2018, Mr Q entered into a hire-purchase agreement with FCA for a used car 
which was only six months old. The hire-purchase agreement says the recorded mileage 
was 4,500, but Mr Q says it was in fact 5,900.
The cash price of the car was £11,345. Mr Q paid an advance payment of £750, and agreed 
to pay the balance, plus finance charges of £2,781.86, by 47 monthly instalments of £176.38 
each plus a final option fee of £5,386.
Shortly after he acquired the car, Mr Q noticed there was a fault with the steering. The motor 
dealer which supplied the car to him no longer dealt in that make of car. So he contacted 
another dealer for that make of car. The dealer found damage to steering components, the 
front left suspension, and the rear axle.
The dealer said this damage fell outside the manufacturers warranty. So in May 2019, Mr Q 
complained about the damage to FCA and asked it to assist in getting the car repaired. 
However, FCA didnt accept responsibility. It offered to make a goodwill contribution towards 
repair costs.
Mr Q thought FCA was responsible under CRA for supplying a car 
of  unsatisfactory quality/unfit for purpose. As FCA had failed to repair the car when asked to 
do so, Mr Q told FCA he was exercising his right to reject the car under CRA, and 
complained to us.
Our investigator's view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that as the fault 
became apparent within six months of delivery, it was for FCA to show that the fault wasnt 
present when the car was supplied. FCA hadnt produced any such evidence.
The investigator didnt think FCA had been given the chance to repair the car. So he 
recommended that it should now fully diagnose the faults and repair the car without cost to 
Mr Q. He thought Mr Q could have continued to drive the car, and so hadnt been 
significantly inconvenienced.
He accepted Mr Qs evidence that the starting mileage had been wrongly recorded on the 
hire-purchase agreement and said it should be amended to 5,900 on FCAs systems.Mr Q responded to say that because of the delay, and his need to use the car, he had paid 
for the car to be repaired. He said he wanted FCA to pay for the spare key which wasnt 
handed over on delivery of the car, and to reimburse any other costs he had incurred.
FCA didnt respond to the investigators recommendation. So this complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a decision. 
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional view to Mr Q and to FCA on 22 April 2020. In it I said that the faults 
Mr Q complained about appeared within six months after delivery of the car to him. So under 
CRA, it was for FCA to show that they werent present when Mr Q took possession of the 
car.
FCA hadnt produced any evidence to this effect. So, like the investigator, I concluded that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality/unfit for purpose when supplied to Mr Q.
I said that I disagreed with the investigator on two points:
I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr Q to take the view that a car with steering 
faults and a faulty rear axle was unsafe to drive; and
I thought Mr Q did give FCA the opportunity to repair the car, but FCA wouldnt 
accept responsibility for the faults. It made a goodwill offer to make a contribution 
towards the repairs, which I thought Mr Q was entitled to decline.
 
So I thought Mr Q was entitled to tell FCA he rejected the car when he did so on 31 July 
2019, and he was still entitled to do so. However, Mr Q had said that his preference now was 
to keep the car, and continue with the hire-purchase agreement, subject to being 
compensated for the expenses he had incurred, the loss of use of the car, and the distress 
and inconvenience the faulty car had caused him.
Mr Q said he was able to use the car from December 2018 until 9 May 2019, although he 
was unhappy with its condition, and tried, unsuccessfully during that time, to get it repaired. 
From then until 23 October 2019 he made no use of the car, and had to buy a cheap 
alternative car to get around.
He had now paid for the car to be repaired. He had missed some finance payments because 
he had to run two cars. The spare key had never been supplied.
In these circumstances, I thought fair recompense would be for FCA to:
1. reimburse the repair costs of £1,451.12 that Mr Q had incurred. He had mentioned 
further service and repair costs which would take this figure to £1,566.29. However, I 
thought these would have been incurred anyway, and they didnt seem to be related 
to the fault;
2. Mr Q wasnt able to use the car between May and October for approximately 6 
months. So FCA should reimburse 6 months monthly payments (6 x £176.38 = 
£1,058.28) plus 6 months insurance costs (one half of his annual insurance cost of 
£1,5748 = £786.24);
3. pay for the missing spare key, or if for any reason this couldnt be produced pay for 
replacement locks and two keys.
4. to the extent that Mr Q missed monthly payments for the period May to October 2019 
inclusive, and this affected his credit file, FCA should remove any adverse entries 
from his credit file in respect of that period;5. amend the starting mileage for the car on its systems to 5,900 miles;
6. pay Mr Q interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple on the amounts it was to reimburse 
as set out in 1. and 2. above from the respective dates each amount was originally 
incurred by Mr Q until settlement; and
7. pay Mr Q an additional £750 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
FCAs failure to accept its responsibilities had caused him.
 
Because Mr Q had been able to use the car outside the period May to October 2019, I didnt 
think it would be reasonable to require FCA to repay any other sums.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Q accepted my provisional decision.
FCA asked how Mr Q had proved that the damage was there at delivery. He raised concerns 
with FCA around five months after delivery, which suggested that the damage could have 
easily been caused during the five months.
FCA thought that if the car had been faulty before delivery, Mr Q would have experienced 
the problem - that the vehicle slightly pulled to one side - right away and would have been in 
contact with FCA a lot sooner.
As FCA had already mentioned, an HPI check was carried out before delivery, and was clear 
with no accident damage. This showed the vehicle was fit for purpose at delivery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr Q did notice the fault with the steering shortly after 
he acquired the car. He went back to the motor dealer who had supplied the car, but it was 
no longer dealing in that make of car. So he contacted another dealer for that make of car, 
who repaired the damage.
The car was then still under the manufacturers warranty. But the dealer said the damage 
wasnt covered by this warranty, and Mr Q would have to pay for the repair. It was at that 
point that Mr Q approached FCA, but it wouldnt accept responsibility.
As I have previously explained, under CRA it was for FCA to show that a fault which 
appeared within the first six months after delivery wasnt present when the car was supplied 
to Mr Q. In my view FCA has failed to satisfy this onus of proof.
The fact that there wasnt any mention in the HPI check of accident damage having been 
reported in respect of the car doesnt mean it hadnt been damaged.
So all in all I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair and reasonable that FCA takes the actions I 
proposed in my provisional decision, as set out fully below.  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd to:
 
1. reimburse the repair costs of £1,451.12 that Mr Q has incurred;
 
2. reimburse 6 months monthly payments totalling £1,058.28 (6 x £176.38) plus 6 
months insurance costs totalling £786.24 (one half of £1,5748);
 
3. pay for the missing spare key, or if for any reason this cant be produced pay for 
replacement locks and two keys;
 
4. to the extent that Mr Q missed monthly payments for the period May to October 2019 
inclusive, and this affected his credit file, remove any adverse entries from his credit 
file in respect of that period;
 
5. amend the starting mileage for the car on its systems to 5,900 miles;
 
6. pay Mr Q interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple on the amounts it is to reimburse as 
set out in 1. and 2. above from the respective dates each amount was originally 
incurred by Mr Q until settlement (1); and
 
7. pay Mr Q an additional £750 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
FCAs failure to accept its responsibilities has caused him.
 
_________________________________________________________________________
(1)   If FCA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr Q how much its taken off. It should also give Mr Q a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman