DRN-1813443
 
The complaint
Ms M has complained about a number of loans she took from Gain Credit LLC whilst trading 
as Lending Stream (Gain Credit' or the lender). Ms M says Gain Credit lent to 
her irresponsibly.   
 
What happened
Ms M was given 5 loans by Gain Credit between October 2018 and February 2019. The 
loans were all instalment loans to be repaid over 6 to 9 months. The principal sum borrowed 
varied from £120 to £700.
A summary of Ms Ms borrowing is as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
monthly 
repayment
1 05/10/2018 27/12/2018 6 £700.00 173.79
2 17/11/2018 14/12/2018 6 £390.00 313.37
3 14/12/2018 Outstanding 9 £630.00 303.53
4 07/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £660.00 336.75
5 09/02/2019 Outstanding 6 £120.00 373.60
 
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ms complaint. He didn't think Gain Credit had been 
wrong to give the loans to her. 
Ms M has told us that shed had other outstanding loans and credit commitments at the time. 
And if Gain Credit had carried out better checks, it would have realised that she couldnt 
afford the loans.
Our adjudicator thought that, given the number of loans and the amount being lent in 
comparison to Ms M's declared income, the checks that Gain Credit carried out for the initial 
loans were proportionate. And that it was fair to say that even though the lender should've 
carried out better checks for the later loans, there wasn't anything to suggest that it ought to 
have realised that the loans weren't sustainably affordable for Ms M. Ms M didnt agree with this assessment and asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Gain Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M could repay the 
loans sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such 
as the loan amount, the repayment amounts, the consumers income and expenditure and 
her overall financial circumstances. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Gain Credit should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Ms M.
Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Ms Ms complaint.
Gain Credit carried out some checks before it gave each of the loans to Ms M. This included 
asking Ms M for information about her income and her normal monthly expenditure. 
I think that the amounts that Ms M needed to repay in relation to loans 1 to 3 were relatively 
small compared with the income she had declared. From what Ive seen, I think the checks 
Gain Credit carried out during this early stage of its lending relationship with Ms M were 
reasonable and proportionate - given the amount it was lending to Ms M each time, in 
comparison with her income, and the number of loans agreed. Ive not seen anything in the 
summary information provided to suggest that Gain Credit should have carried out more in 
depth checks before it provided the first three loans to her. The credit checks carried out by 
the lender did show some historic problems. But I can see from the information provided that 
it was seven months since the last default on Ms Ms account, so I think it was reasonable 
for Gain Credit to conclude that her finances had returned to a more stable footing. And there's nothing else from the information gathered at the time that I think should have 
caused Gain Credit any additional concerns. 
Ms M has told us that she had other loans and a poor credit history when she started 
borrowing from Gain Credit. She thinks that Gain Credit should have done more to check her 
financial position before it agreed to the lending. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
she told Gain Credit about the full extent of her other outstanding loans or credit 
commitments, and its not something that proportionate checks would have uncovered at the 
time. Given the repayment amounts, what Ms M had told Gain Credit about her 
circumstances and her borrowing history with this lender, I dont think it would have been 
proportionate for Gain Credit to carry out the kind of checks on Ms Ms financial situation that 
would have been needed in order to show that the lending was unsustainable - before each 
of the first three loans were agreed. I dont think greater checks were appropriate at the time, 
so Gain Credit would not have been aware that Ms M might have difficulty in repaying her 
loans in a sustainable manner. So I dont think Gain Credit did anything wrong when it 
provided loans 1 to 3 to Ms M.
However I dont think Gain Credit should have agreed to give Ms M loan 4 without doing 
better checks. This was the fourth loan in a repeating sequence and Ms M was not reducing 
the amount she was borrowing - although I have to take into account the fact that her 
declared income had by this time increased. But I think Gain Credit should have done more 
to carry out better checks on Ms Ms finances before it decided to give her loan 4. 
I have carefully reviewed the bank statements that Ms M has provided to us. I can see that 
Ms M had other short term lending, and credit commitments, as well as a longer term 
guarantor loan to repay. However, from what Ive seen, I dont think that better checks would 
have suggested to Gain Credit that loan 4 was not sustainably affordable. 
Similarly, I think Gain Credit should have carried out a more in-depth review of Ms Ms 
financial circumstances before it agreed to provide loan 5. Ms M says her bank statements 
show betting transactions and regular repayments to a friend whod lent her money. I have 
reviewed everything that Ms M has provided, including all the bank statements she sent and 
her credit report. At £120, Loan 5 was at a reduced level than the previous lending but a 
short time after this loan was taken, Ms M told Gain Credit that shed entered a debt 
management plan. I appreciate that Ms M subsequently had real difficulties repaying her 
loans. But at the point loan 5 was agreed, I dont think Ms Ms borrowing or repayment 
behaviour were such that Gain Credit should have reasonably realised that she was facing 
serious problems managing her money. And I dont think, even with better checks, that there 
was enough to suggest to the lender at the time that Ms Ms other financial commitments 
meant that loan 5 was not sustainably affordable for her.  Or that the loan should be 
declined.
I recognise that Ms M will be disappointed by my decision but I would like to reassure her 
that Ive reviewed all the evidence presented and thought very carefully about everything Ive 
seen about this complaint. But from everything Ive seen, I cannot fairly conclude that Gain 
Credit shouldnt have given loans 1 to 5 to Ms M or that it lent to her irresponsibly. 
Gain Credit should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with Ms M in respect 
of any outstanding balances - bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
 
My final decision For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Gain 
Credit LLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman