DRN-3861914
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Hanley Economic Building Society didnt provide a further 
advance on their self-build mortgage. They ask that it waives the early repayment charge 
(ERC) so that they can re-mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Hanley in early 2021 for £365,000. This was to be 
released in stages to finance building work. Costs were higher than expected and Mr and 
Mrs E applied for further borrowing of about £50,000 in March 2022. This was released in 
early June 2022. 
Mr and Mrs E asked for further borrowing of about £55,000 in mid-June 2022. Hanley told 
them it didnt have a suitable self-build further advance product available at that time. The 
position was the same in late July 2022. Mr and Mrs E made a complaint. They say they 
cant proceed with their building work without additional borrowing and if Hanley cant offer 
this it should waive the ERC so they can go elsewhere.
Hanley said it had concerns about affordability, the short time between the requests for 
additional funds and how some of the build costs had been accounted for. It said it wasnt 
obliged to offer further loans and didnt agree to waive the ERC. Hanley said it would re-
assess affordability if Mr and Mrs E provide up to date information and offered to review the 
costings to see if they could be brought in line with affordability.
Our investigator said the terms of the mortgage Mr and Mrs E took out said Hanley wasnt 
obliged to offer further loans, and Mr and Mrs E agreed to the ERC when they took out the 
mortgage products. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs E took out the mortgage with Hanley they agreed to the terms on which it 
was offered. They agreed to the ERC, which was clearly set out in the European 
Standardised Information Sheet attached to the mortgage offer. This said an ERC of 2% 
would apply if the mortgage was repaid during the first two years from completion. The 
mortgage conditions said Hanley wasnt obliged to make any additional loans to Mr and 
Mrs E.
Hanley did offer a further advance which was released in early June 2022. Mr and Mrs E 
applied for a second further advance in mid-June 2022. 
Hanley was undertaking a system change that meant it had a more limited range of products 
than usual. It didnt offer a product for a self-build further advance, and it wasnt clear when 
this would be available.
Mr and Mrs E were in a difficult position. They needed to borrow more to continue with their 
building work. But even if Hanley had had a suitable product available, theres no certainty it 
would have offered Mr and Mrs E a second further advance. 
Hanley had concerns about affordability for the amount Mr and Mrs E wanted to borrow. It 
offered to review affordability if Mr and Mrs E provided updated income information. Hanley 
was also concerned about some of the costings for the building work provided by Mr and 
Mrs E, and the short time between the requests for the first and second further advances. It 
offered to review the costings with Mr and Mrs E to see if they could be brought in line with 
affordability. Hanley said its aim was to help Mr and Mrs E finish the building work to the 
point where theyd receive a completion certificate which would allow them to access a wider 
range of mortgages. Mr and Mrs E didnt take up Hanleys offer, and so I dont know if their 
application would have met its lending criteria and affordability checks.
Mr E wanted to refinance with another self-build mortgage lender. He said he needed funds 
to continue with the building work and was concerned about delays with Hanley offering a 
self-build further advance product. A re-mortgage process with Hanley could have taken 
three months. Mr E wanted Hanley to waive the ERC if he refinanced elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs E agreed to the ERC when they took out the mortgage and further advance. I 
understand that the building work cost more than expected, and this meant Mr and Mrs E 
needed to raise more funds to complete it. And I can appreciate their frustration that Hanley 
wasnt offering self-build further advance products in mid-2022. But I must also take into 
account that Hanley had no obligation to offer further lending, and might not have done so 
even if a product was available. It was entitled to apply its own lending criteria and to assess 
affordability before lending. 
Hanley provided the loan it offered initially and a further loan. It wasnt obliged to offer further 
loans. And, while it was in the midst of a system change that meant it had a more limited 
range of products than usual, I think it responded fairly to try to assist Mr and Mrs E. 
I leave it to Mr and Mrs E to decide whether to take up Hanleys offer to review their costings 
and affordability. They can of course look to refinance elsewhere. But I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require Hanley to waive the ERC if they do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman