DRN-3628010
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society wont make reasonable adjustments to 
allow his carer to pay cash into his account on his behalf.
What happened
Mr D wanted to pay cash into his current account with Nationwide. Because Mr D is disabled 
and due to his particular circumstances, he wants his carer to be able to do this for him. His 
carer was able to do this once, but then Nationwide said that they couldnt do this because 
there were limits on the amount of cash that could be paid in. Mr Ds account was then 
blocked because Nationwide had concerns about the transactions.
Mr D wasnt happy with this. He said that Nationwide were acting unfairly and not in line with 
the Equality Act. He felt that Nationwide should issue his carer a second card for his account 
which would allow her to deposit cash into his account without any problems. Nationwide 
said it didnt offer this though and advised Mr D to speak with its Special Services Team. 
Despite trying to do that, this team didnt contact him when it said it would.
When Mr D complained about this, Nationwide apologised for the team not calling him back 
and offered him £50 for the impact this had. It explained that it doesnt offer second cards for 
carers. But it does have several other options that Mr D could use. It mentioned power of 
attorney, applying for a joint account, or a third party mandate.
Mr D wasnt happy with Nationwides response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and felt that the options Nationwide had suggested were 
reasonable. Mr D disagreed and said that none of the options were reasonable for him. So 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says that Nationwide has failed to make reasonable adjustments for him to do what he 
wants to do with his account. Specifically, that he wants to be able to pay in cash to his 
account by allowing his carer to do so. Mr D feels that by not letting him or his carer do this 
in the way he wants, Nationwide has failed in its duty under the Equality Act 2010.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into consideration when deciding this complaint  given that 
its relevant law  but my decision here is ultimately based on whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances, in line with our role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service. 
If Mr D continues to feel strongly that Nationwide has breached this act, then that is 
something hed have to take to court. This service is a free to use alternative to the courts, 
but we dont have the same powers.
Here, the issue is not that Nationwide hasnt suggested any adjustments for Mr D  its that 
he feels that the options it has suggested arent reasonable for him. Mr D wants his carer to 
be able to pay cash into his account. Nationwide says that, while that may have been 
allowed on occasion in the past, its policy is generally not to allow a third party to deposit 
cash into a customers account. I think thats reasonable here, because there are risks 
involved in allowing someone who isnt formally authorised by Nationwide to deposit funds 
into a customers account.
Nationwide is entitled to take steps and create policies to mitigate risks like this. So when it 
says that Mr Ds carer cant pay in cash on his behalf, I think its entitled to take this position. 
Mr Ds carer isnt formally authorised to operate the account, or to act on Mr Ds behalf in 
taking this particular action with Nationwide.
But Mr Ds situation makes him vulnerable and hes explained to Nationwide why he wants 
his carer to be able to do this. His preferred solution is that his carer is given a second card, 
linked to his account. Nationwide has said that it simply doesnt provide second cards in this 
way. So I dont think itd be fair to expect Nationwide to do that here. But it should try and 
help Mr D do what he wants. So with that in mind, Ive thought about what Nationwide has 
suggested.
Nationwide needs to show that it is suggesting and willing to make reasonable adjustments. I 
know that Mr D has told us that other banks operate differently in respect of how they let 
people pay money into accounts, but I have to consider the individual circumstances of his 
complaint against Nationwide.
Nationwide has put forward three options:
a power of attorney for his carer
a joint account with his carer
a third party mandate
Mr D has explained why none of these options work for him. While I realise that these may 
not be his ideal solutions to the issue, I think these are all reasonable suggestions to enable 
his carer to pay cash in for him as he wants. In my view, these balance what Mr D wants, 
with also enabling Nationwide to follow its policies and procedures around risks too.
Mr D is unhappy that the option of a third party mandate is only valid for 12 months and cant 
then be renewed. Nationwide has explained that this is its policy and I think its reasonable 
for it to rely on that here. I say this because in providing a mandate of this nature, things can 
change over time  for example, Mr Ds carer may change. I think relying on that policy here 
reflects that, so I dont think its unreasonable.
While no one of these suggestions may be ideal for Mr D, I think they are all reasonable 
adjustments in the circumstances. For example, Mr D could get a third party mandate for 
now, allowing for his carer to deposit case in the short term and then make the relevant 
enquiries about a power of attorney  as a longer term option - while thats in place. But 
ultimately thats a matter for Mr D to decide.
In terms of the fact that Nationwide said that itd call Mr D and then didnt  thats unhelpful 
and would have clearly caused him some confusion and frustration. Nationwide has offered 
£50 and so, if it hasnt paid this already, it should now pay this. But I make no further award 
here.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr D £50 for the impact of 
not calling him when it said it would  if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman