DRN-3356768
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund debit card 
payments she made to a dating agency she says is operating a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only 
an overview of the key facts here. 
On 17 October 2019 Ms J made a payment of £50 to a dating agency. This was to meet one 
of the representatives from the agency in a London hotel. Ms J explains that they spoke for 
well over an hour, so she thought the agency was gathering information to take into account 
in order to find compatible matches. On 29 January 2020, Ms J paid £997 for the Gold 
Service membership package. 
Ms J was unhappy with the service she received. She said the dating agency was not as 
exclusive as it claims to be and that it provided generic profiles without any thought about 
whether the suitors are a good potential match. She felt the dating agency had not acted 
with integrity by allowing her to sign up when there were no suitable matches available. 
Ms J explains that the dating agency provided a registration pack which she describes as a 
degree in dating and overwhelming. Ms J says she lost confidence in the organisation 
because it had not vetted its clients closely enough. She did not wish to make use of the 
remaining services in her membership package. She felt the fee the dating agency was 
charging for its service was astronomical and that its level of service was no different to 
other, significantly cheaper, dating services.
In April 2020, Ms J contacted Halifax and explained the service she was receiving from the 
dating agency was not what had been promised. Ms J says that Halifax did not tell her that 
she could raise a dispute. She says she was told the bank could not do anything to help. 
Ms J contacted the dating agency and asked for her money back. The agency felt it was 
providing the service Ms J had paid for. It said it had sent 37 profiles to Ms J since 
January 2020. It explained that the Gold Service provides access to all members and is not 
a personal matchmaking service. It pointed out Ms J had not taken advantage of the dating 
support that is part of the overall package she had paid for. It said it was still willing to 
provide the coaching call, the video profile and the communication critique. It suggested it 
was still possible that Ms J could make a connection through the agency and urged her to 
make the most of her remaining membership time. 
Ms J obtained legal advice and discovered there was a chargeback process when paying by 
debit card. Ms J contacted the bank again and said it had made a mistake by not telling her 
how to dispute the payment. 
Halifax looked into things and concluded that it did not have to refund Ms J. It issued its final 
response to her complaint in February 2021. It paid Ms J £75 compensation to make up for 
the confusion around the chargeback process, but concluded it would not have taken Ms Js 
dispute further because the company was willing to provide her with the promised services 
and she had decided not to use them.
Ms J referred her complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld. She didnt think a chargeback would have had a 
reasonable prospect of success in this case. She thought the dating agency would have 
most likely been able to provide sufficient evidence to defend the claim. She noted that the 
dating agency had not taken Ms Js fees and disappeared and that it had been willing to 
provide all of the services included as part of the Gold Service.
Ms J didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh. She 
explained the service and the matches were very poor and that shed never met one single 
person face to face. She said shed been harassed by unsuitable matches and there had 
been no point even going to the next stage with any of those potential connections. She 
explained that she had made payment for suitable matches and felt strongly the service was 
a scam. She was disappointed the dating agency had not refunded any money to take into 
account that it could not provide a quality face to face service during the pandemic. She 
referred to the materials provided by the dating agency and said she had not signed up to 
take a dating course. She added that neither the bank nor the Investigator had scrutinised 
the materials that had been sent to her by the dating agency so could not have made a fair 
judgment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Halifax to refund the money 
Ms J paid. I can appreciate this is not the outcome Ms J was hoping for, so I will explain why.
Millions of card payments are made each day and most of those transactions are problem 
free. But there are occasions where an account holder may need to query a transaction 
applied to their account, perhaps if they dont recognise it or if they think something has 
gone wrong. 
If an account holder raises concerns about a transaction, Id expect their card issuer to look 
into the situation further to see whether it has any responsibility for refunding the amount in 
dispute. In some circumstances, a card issuer can ask for a transaction to be refunded 
through the chargeback process
As Ms J used her debit card to make the payments and wants a refund, Ive thought about 
whether Halifax dealt with that request fairly and did what it could to help her.
Should Halifax have attempted a chargeback? 
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means is that 
Halifax can in certain circumstances ask for a payment Ms J made to be refunded. Those 
circumstances can include where goods or services arent supplied by the company Ms J 
paid or if they are not as described or defective. 
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. There needs to be a right to a
chargeback under the card scheme rules. And under those rules the merchant can defend a
chargeback if it doesnt agree with the request. There is no obligation for a card issuer to 
raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. But I would consider it good practice for 
a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and it is reasonable to do so. In this case, Halifax didnt tell Ms J about the chargeback process when she first got in 
touch. Halifax, as the scheme member, has the knowledge of the various requirements for a 
chargeback to succeed under the scheme rules. It did not think there was a reasonable 
prospect of success in the circumstances Ms J had described. It was entitled to take this 
view, but it would have been better for the bank to have told Ms J about chargeback and why 
it didnt think it would help her on this occasion rather than have Ms J discover chargeback 
at a later date and feel that it had been overlooked. Halifax has already paid £75 
compensation to Ms J to acknowledge that it should have been clearer about what it was 
able to do and why. I think this is fair. 
By the time Ms J had learnt about the existence of the chargeback scheme, it was too late to 
raise a claim for the payments she had made to the dating agency. So I have thought about 
whether Halifax has caused Ms J to miss out on the opportunity to try and recover the 
money she paid. Having done so, I do not think a chargeback would have had a realistic 
prospect of success even if it had been raised in time. 
I have thought about the chargeback rules and about what Ms J has told us about her 
complaint. Assessments of the quality of a dating agency and the services that it provides 
can be very subjective. Where the dispute lies is that Ms J believes the services were not as 
described to her. 
It's important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules and 
not the relative merits of a cardholder and merchant dispute. This means its not for me or 
Halifax to decide whether the dating agency has treated Ms J poorly or whether she should 
be allowed to have some or all of her money back as a result. It is for this reason that I do 
not need to see all of the materials the dating agency provided to Ms J or make any 
determination as to whether they were worth the price paid or not. I am not deciding whether 
it is the dating agency or Ms J that deserves the money thats been paid. I am considering 
whether the banks position that a chargeback would not have been successful is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
It is clear from the dating agencys responses to Ms J that it would have resisted any 
chargeback claim. It had engaged with Ms J to try and resolve the situation and I think it is 
more likely than not that it would have provided similar details as part of a chargeback claim. 
To defend a chargeback claim, the dating agency would have needed to provide evidence to 
show that its service matched what was described. I am persuaded that it would have been 
able to do so. There is no dispute that the dating agency shared Ms Js profile and that it 
provided her with the details of profiles to consider, which was all part of the Gold Service 
package. Ms J said only around 20 of those profiles met the very basic requirements of what 
she was looking for, but she felt none were a good fit for her from a personality and 
emotional perspective. But this does not mean that the service the dating agency performed 
was defective or that Ms J had been deceived. The dating agency explained that it shared 
profiles with Ms J with the intention of not limiting anyone from the possibility of making a 
connection and getting to know people.
From the correspondence I have seen between Ms J and the dating agency, the dating 
agency was willing to provide the services included in the Gold Service subscription Ms J 
had paid for and to provide ongoing access to new and existing matches for the duration of 
her membership, although I can appreciate that Ms J didnt attribute much worth to the 
approach and the methodology of the dating agency by this point. 
Even so, I remain persuaded that the dating agency would have provided a defence to a 
chargeback claim that would have been sufficient to rebut it. The services Ms J had paid for were still available for her to use and it was ultimately her choice not to use them. I cant 
fairly and reasonably ask Halifax to return the money to Ms J in circumstances where a 
chargeback wouldnt have succeeded. 
Ms Js strength of feeling is clear. She has spent a lot of money on the subscription and the 
experience as she has described it does not come anywhere near close to what she was 
anticipating. She feels the dating agency is a scam. But I consider a scam to be a dishonest 
scheme or criminal wrongdoing intended to result in financial gain. From publicly available 
information about the dating agency, it has been established for over 20 years and its 
testimonials point to broadly positive experiences which have led to new friendships and 
marriages. I am not persuaded the dating agency set out to deliberately defraud Ms J.
Ms J has referred to consumer protection legislation which gives a consumer rights against a 
supplier. But Halifax isnt able to help Ms J to enforce any rights under this legislation in the 
same way a court might. Theres also no contractual obligation on Halifax to help Ms J to try 
and recover money from the merchant. The bank wasnt ever going to be able to investigate 
any underlying issues between Ms J and the dating service. The only way that Halifax could 
potentially try to help was through the chargeback process. As there was no realistic 
prospect of the chargeback being successful, there was nothing further Halifax could do to 
try and help Ms J to recover the money she paid.  
Im not persuaded there are any grounds on which Halifax can fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for refunding the money Ms J paid. As such, I do not require it to do anything 
more in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman