DRN-3084944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium in 
relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy with  
Great Lakes under the Post Office brand. The policy start date was 4 September 2019.                 
Mr and Mrs M paid a total premium of £352.66. Mr M declared one medical condition. 
Mr and Mrs M planned a trip with a departure date of 11 May 2020. On 17 March 2020, the 
UK government advised against all but essential travel abroad because of covid-19. That 
advice remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ms intended departure and their trip was 
cancelled.      
On 12 May 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes to cancel their policy. Great Lakes 
said that Mr and Mrs M werent entitled to a refund of premium. It subsequently changed its 
position and offered to refund 50% of the premium as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt think that was fair. They say that they havent been able to travel since March 2020 
and want Great Lakes to refund the premium from March 2020 to September 2020. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The 
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that covid-19 didnt make 
it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started in September 2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of covid-19. 
She thought that the offer Great Lakes had already made to refund 50% of the premium was 
more than it needed to offer in the particular circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M initially accepted the investigators view but then disputed that theyd received 
a refund of 50% of the premium. They subsequently said that they didnt accept that a refund 
of 50% of the premium was fair. Mr and Mrs M asked that an ombudsman consider their 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation of Your Policy
Cancellation right: You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date You receive:
 The policy document at the start of Your insurance;
 The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should You decide to exercise this cancellation right, You will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that You have not started a Trip to which the insurance applies and You 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of Your 14 day cancellation period You continue to have the right to 
cancel Your Policy at any time during its term by contacting Us, but no refund of premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of Your policy.
That information is repeated in the insurance product information document. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. And, 
as Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period, Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a refund of 
50% of the premium is fair and more than this service would direct it to do. Thats 
because Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of the policy from its start date in        
September 2019 up to the cancellation date in May 2020  over eight months. Whilst 
Great Lakes risk under the policy ended when it was cancelled, it still bore the risk 
from September 2019 to May 2020. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M want a refund of all the premium. Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer that. Mr and Mrs M entered into a contract with Great Lakes then, for 
reasons I quite understand, chose to cancel the policy. The offer Great Lakes has 
made is more than its obliged to make. 
There was some initial confusion on Mr and Mrs Ms part about whether they had 
received the refund of 50% of the premium. Great Lakes has provided evidence that 
on 3 July 2020 it sent the payment to a nominated bank account. If Mr and Mrs M 
havent received that, they should take it up with their bank in the first instance. 
In all the circumstances, there are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to give 
Mr and Mrs M a refund of the entire premium. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman