DRN-3030606
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) have treated him 
unfairly by increasing his qualifying spending required to receive a companion voucher.
What happened
As part of the benefits of Mr Ss American Express card he will qualify for a companion 
voucher if he spends £10,000 in a 12 month period (25 March-24 March). In July 2019 he 
received a companion voucher as he had spent £10,000. Mr S says he had spent £35,000 in 
this qualifying year.
Unfortunately, because of the pandemic, there were items which Mr S had paid for using his 
American Express card which were refunded. As a result of this, his qualifying spending 
requirements were adjusted and increased by the amount of the refunds. But the refunds 
were applied to Mr Ss American Express account in the following qualifying year to when he 
made the purchase. Mr S said this meant that instead of needing to spend £10,000 to 
receive a companion voucher the following qualifying year, he would need to spend 
£11,887.38 instead. 
Mr S spoke to American Express and asked them to reinstate the original £10,000 qualifying 
spending limit. He felt it was unfair that the refunds affected his spending requirement in the 
following year that the purchases were made, even if the money was refunded in the next 
qualifying year. Mr S says he spoke with American Express on a live chat facility who said 
they would adjust the spending requirement back to £10,000 but this didnt happen, so Mr S 
rang American Express to query this.
Mr S says the call handler offered him 1000 points towards a reward scheme on his 
American Express card as a gesture of goodwill, but the call handler was unable to amend 
the spending requirement for the current qualifying year. Mr S made a complaint to American 
Express and refused their offer of 1000 points. 
American Express did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that when a member has a 
merchant refund processed, the companion voucher eligible spend will be adjusted, as well 
as the points on a different feature of the card. They said this process occurs when the 
refund is billed. American Express said the call handler gave him the correct information, but 
they couldnt find any live chat conversations Mr S had where the staff member said his 
spending requirements would be amended to spend only £10,000.
American Express said that he was offered 1000 bonus points but as he had declined this 
the offer had been withdrawn. But they reiterated they had not made an error in amending 
his spending requirement so did not uphold his complaint. Mr S brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that American Express had 
followed their procedure to amend the spending requirement when the refund was given and 
not to retrospectively change the spending requirement in the year the purchase was made. 
This was the same procedure for all of their customers. Our investigator explained to Mr S 
that our service cant tell a business how to run their processes, but we can check to ensure 
they have applied their processes fairly. In this case our investigator said that they had 
followed the process consistently. Our investigator said that as Mr S had met the increased 
spending requirement part way through the current year then there had been no material 
impact on him as he had earned his companion voucher. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said it was difficult to spend this 
extra money required and friends and family had to help him out to reach the required 
spend. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
American Express didnt have a copy of the live chat Mr S said he had with them, so I asked 
Mr S if he had a copy of the chat. Unfortunately, he did not. So while it would have been 
useful to look at the content of this chat, Im unable to do so here.
As our investigator explained to Mr S, its not the role of this service to say how a business 
should run their processes. So I cant tell American Express that they need to retrospectively 
amend spending requirements for the companion voucher in a previous year to when a 
purchase is made, when a refund credits an account in the following qualifying year. But I 
can look to see if American Express have followed their process correctly and fairly. Im 
persuaded that they have on this occasion and Ill explain why.
American Express have confirmed that when Mr S rang them up the call handler told Mr S 
the correct information about not being able to amend the previous years qualifying 
spending as the refunds were credited to his account in his new qualifying year. American 
Express has said they apply this procedure to everyone, as otherwise it could lead to 
fraudulent activity. So Im persuaded since American Express have followed their own 
process in how they amend the qualifying spending for companion vouchers then they have 
been reasonable in how theyve treated Mr S here.
Ive noticed that Mr S comfortably met the spending requirements to get his companion 
voucher between 25 March 2020 and 24 March 2021, even if he needed to spend more than 
the £10,000 he usually would need to. Ive noted the strength of feeling from Mr S that this 
shouldnt matter, as this is not his point, it more about the fairness of American Express 
amending the qualifying spend retrospectively in the year the purchase was made. Hes also 
said that because of the increase of the qualifying spending then he needed family and 
friends to help him out with this.
But the qualifying spending Mr S had in March 2020-2021 (which was increased due to the 
refunds), was £32,503. So even if the qualifying spending needed was £11,887.38 as Mr S 
has said it was, then he did not need friends and family to help him out as much, as he 
exceeded the required spending by over £20,000. This is in line with what Mr S spent in the 
2019-2020 qualifying year (£34,405) and in the 2018-2019 qualifying year (£31,672).
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has been in poor health recently. But American Express have 
made no error in applying the qualifying spending adjustment to the account when the 
refunds have been made (as opposed to when the purchases have been made). So it 
follows I wont be asking American Express to do anything further.
My final decisionI do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman