DRN-4352030
Complaint
Ms L has complained about loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. 
She says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Ms L with a total of four loans. L2G initially provided Ms L with a logbook loan 
for £500 in April 2018. This loan had an APR of 599.3% and a term of 52 weeks. This meant 
that the total amount to be repaid of £1,160.12, including interest, fees and charges of 
£660.12, was due to be repaid in 52 weekly instalments of £22.31. This loan was settled in 
full in October 2018 with some of the proceeds from loan 2.
L2G then provided Ms L with a second logbook loan for £950 in October 2018. £263.65 from 
the proceeds of this loan went towards paying the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan 
had an APR of 363.8% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £4,712.04, including interest, fees and charges of £3,762.04, was due to be repaid 
in 36 monthly instalments of £130.89. This loan was settled in full in May 2019 with some of 
the proceeds from loan 3.
In May 2019, L2G provided Ms L with a third logbook loan for £1,400.00. £754.40 went 
towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 2. This loan had an APR of 487.4% and a 
term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £8,052.84, including 
interest, fees and charges of £6,652.84, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
£223.69. 
Ms L was provided with a fourth and final loan for £500 in September 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 770% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£1,850.04, including interest, fees and charges of £1,350.04, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of £102.78. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ls complaint and he concluded that L2G didnt do 
anything wrong when providing Ms L with her loans and so didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Ms L disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision of 29 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 29 August 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Ms Ls complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Ms Ls complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms L could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G said that it agreed to Ms Ls applications after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Ms L could 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms L said she 
couldnt afford these loans and so shouldnt have been lent to.
I was concerned that L2Gs own checks in the lead up to loan 1 showed that shed had 
recent difficulties repaying credit in the form of a number of accounts being in arrangements 
to pay. Ms L had also had previous difficulties in the form of historic defaults and a historic 
county court judgement (CCJ) too. 
I was also concerned that by the time of loan 2, Ms Ls position hadnt improved much either. 
Ms L had gone on to default on a couple of accounts which had been in arrangements to pay 
at the time of loan 1. And not only was loan 2 for a larger amount than loan 1, it was also 
taken out before loan 1 had been repaid as well.
I thought that the position was even worse by the time of loans 3 and 4 as Ms L was taking 
out loans for an even larger amount with higher monthly repayments (in the case of loan 3) 
and in the case of loan 4 approaching for a loan on even more disadvantageous terms. This 
was also Ms Ls fourth very expensive loan within the space of three and a half years. 
Furthermore, Ms L owed other creditors even more than she did at the time she was 
provided with previous loans. Bearing in mind all of this, I was satisfied that L2G ought 
reasonably to have carried out further checks before providing any of these loans to Ms L.
I thought that further checks would have extended into finding out more about Ms Ls 
expenditure. And I was persuaded that if L2G had done this, it would have seen that Ms L 
was already in a difficult financial position at the respective times and also found out why this 
was the case. I was also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown L2G that Ms Ls existing precarious financial position was 
because she was struggling financially. 
So as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out more 
about Ms Ls income and expenditure, I was satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Ms L. 
As L2G provided Ms L with these loans notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms L ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans she shouldnt have been provided 
with in the first place. So this left me intending to issue a final decision finding that Ms L lost out because of what L2G did wrong when providing these loans and that it needed to put 
things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms L confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything further 
to me to consider.
L2G confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and said that it would await my final 
conclusions. It queried whether Ms Ls complaint was being partially upheld. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Ms Ls complaint in my provisional decision 
of 29 August 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. I should also confirm that the single 
reference to a partial uphold was a typing error. And as confirmed throughout the course of 
my provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint in full. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im still upholding Ms Ls complaint and I 
remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Ms L
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Ms L by:
refunding all interest fees, and charges Ms L paid as a result of her loans:
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms L to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information it may have recorded about these loans from       
Ms Ls credit file; 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give        
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 29 August 2023, Im 
upholding Ms Ls complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman