DRN-3822531
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) started to charge her for her Gold 
Service packaged bank account, when shed previously been able to have the account for 
free - providing she kept the balance above a certain amount. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by saying that Mrs H would have to start paying for the Gold 
Service account.
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Based on what I have seen Mrs H has held a fee-paying Gold Service for many years. In 
return for a monthly fee, the account has provided a range of benefits such as worldwide 
travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone cover. It also included a feature 
whereby, providing the balance of the account was kept above a certain amount, the 
account holder(s) would not have to pay the monthly fee. This feature is known as a fee-
waiver.
I understand that Lloyds wrote to Mrs H in 2021 to explain that it had decided to remove the 
fee-waiver feature from the account, and therefore Mrs H would have to start paying the 
monthly account fee (which was £14.95 by that point), regardless of how much money she 
kept in the account, if she wanted to keep the Gold Service benefits. Lloyds then wrote to 
Mrs H in April 2022 to confirm that the fee-waiver was being removed on 1 July 2022. It 
explained that if Mrs H chose to keep the Gold Service account beyond this point, the first 
monthly fee would be applied to the account on 9 August 2022. 
I understand that Mrs H is unhappy with this change, as she has essentially been able to 
enjoy all of the benefits of the Gold Service account for many years, without having to pay 
for them. But the removal of the fee-waiver feature is something that Lloyds is entitled to do. 
I say this because, as far as I can see, the account terms and conditions contain a variation 
clause  that essentially allows Lloyds to change the cost or benefits of the account. 
It may help to explain that variation clauses are generally standard terms for package 
accounts. This is because packaged accounts usually operate on a monthly rolling basis - 
rather than for a set period of time. So including a variation clause in the account terms and 
conditions allows the bank to make changes to the account, without the bank having to get 
the consent of every account holder each and every time it needs to change the features of 
the account.
As such, it is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides and 
also which ones to discontinue too. Indeed, Lloyds added, changed and removed various 
features of the account (as well as increased the cost of the account) many times in the 
years that Mrs H held the account. This includes changing (more than once) the amount that 
Mrs H needed to keep in the account to avoid paying the monthly fee. 
Therefore, whilst I understand why Mrs H is dissatisfied by this, especially as she has been a 
customer of Lloyds for many years, I am unable to say that Lloydss decision to remove this 
feature of the Gold Service account is unreasonable or unfair. 
However, when making such changes, Lloyds was obliged to give notice to all affected 
customers. This is to ensure account holders were made aware of what will be changing and 
were given time to consider their options. 
From what Mrs H and Lloyds have provided, it seems that Lloyds did give Mrs H a 
reasonable amount of notice for her to consider her options. It seems that a notification of 
the removal of the fee-waiver was sent to Mrs H in 2021, and another one sent in April 2022, 
before the removal of the fee-waiver came into effect from 1 July 2022. 
Therefore, whilst I understand that Mrs H will be disappointed, overall, I cant say that Lloyds 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably because it chose to remove the fee-waiver feature from 
the Gold Service account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Lloyds Bank PLC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs H, because it chose to remove the fee-waiver feature from Mrs 
Hs Gold Service account. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman