DRN-2281335
Complaint
Miss A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G).
Background
Miss A took out an MPPI policy with an initial mortgage in 1998. The MPPI provided cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment. The PPI policy was later amended in 2004 to take 
into account additional borrowing. She paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Miss A initially said that she was not told about MPPI at the time of it being taken. But that 
when she noticed the payments, she was told she had to have it. However, I note that more 
recently she has said that she recalls being sold the MPPI, but was told she had to have it to 
get the mortgage and subsequent lending. 
Lloyds says Miss A would have had a choice about the MPPI and that it would have gained 
her consent before adding it to her mortgage. It has sent us copies of the documentation  
Miss A would have completed at the time she took out the mortgage and the MPPI was sold 
to her. This included the mortgage application forms, along with copies of her MPPI 
application forms for both sales and the direct debit mandates completed for the payments.
Looking at the paperwork Miss A completed at the time of sale in 1998 and at the point the 
policy was amended in 2004, I couldnt find any reference to MPPI being a condition of the 
mortgage. I can also see that Miss A completed separate application forms and direct debit 
mandates for the MPPI, which seems to indicate the MPPI was sold to Miss A as separate 
products to the mortgage and subsequent lending. 
Taking everything into account, including the available paperwork from the time of sale and 
the subsequent amendment of the policy, Im satisfied that Miss A did consent to MPPI being 
taken out. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that Miss A wasnt given a 
choice about the MPPI. So, I think its more likely than not that Miss A agreed to take out the 
MPPI knowing she had a choice. 
Lloyds says it recommended the MPPI to Miss A and the policy seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and 
I cant see that she would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
Looking at Miss As circumstances, I can see that due to her self-employed status, she 
would not have received any sick pay if she was too unwell to work and that she didnt have 
any savings. This policy would have paid out a monthly benefit for sickness, it would also 
have provided a benefit to Miss A in the event she had an accident or was unemployed for 
an extended period. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think Lloyds were wrong to 
recommend the PPI to her. 
Ive also thought about whether Miss As employment circumstances and whether the fact 
that she was self-employed may have meant that the MPPI wasnt right for her. Having 
reviewed the applicable policy terms and conditions, I couldnt see that the terms of cover 
made a distinction between employed and self-employed policyholders. So, I dont think 
Miss As self-employed status would have made it harder for her to claim under the policy 
than employed policyholders. As a result, I dont think her employment situation would have 
meant that Lloyds was wrong to recommend the policy to her.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Miss A, Lloyds also had to give her 
clear enough information about the MPPI. Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss A 
about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But from what Ive seen, she chose 
to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said. But these points dont change my decision. 
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman