DRN-3980612
The complaint
Miss E complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined her section 75 claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
In July and September 2021 Miss E made two payments totalling £121.58 to a booking 
agent, (who Ill call A) on her Nationwide credit card, for holiday accommodation for her 
parents.
When Miss Es parents arrived at the accommodation, they were informed that the booking 
had been cancelled. She got in touch with A, who initially promised a refund, but Miss E 
didnt get any further communication from it, she later learnt that A had gone into liquidation. 
In November 2021 Miss E contacted Nationwide, she wanted it to consider a claim under 
section 75, as she wanted to claim back a refund of the cost and the additional 300 euros 
paid for another room. Nationwide offered to consider a chargeback for the cost of the 
accommodation. It didnt think it could consider her claim under section 75 because it didnt 
think the necessary Debtor-Creditor-Supplier (DCS) agreement was in place for a successful 
section 75 claim, because Miss E had paid A, but the hotel was supplying the room.
Miss E complained she was unhappy with how long it was taking to deal with her dispute 
and felt her claim could be considered under section 75. Nationwide didnt think it had made 
any mistakes.
Unhappy with its response, Miss E brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint. She initially said that A was acting as an agent for the hotel, so 
thought that a valid DCS agreement was in place. She recommended that Nationwide refund 
Miss E £121.58. 
Miss E disagreed, she thought she should also be refunded the additional cost incurred and 
be paid compensation. Nationwide said it agreed that As involvement didnt mean a DCS 
agreement wasnt in place. However, it said that it didnt think Miss E was the contracting 
party as her parents were the ones who were to be provided with the room. So, it didnt think 
there was a valid basis for a section 75 claim. Our investigator concluded that although Miss 
E paid for the accommodation, she didnt have a contract with A because the booking receipt 
and confirmation werent in her name. Due to this she didnt think the required DCS 
agreement was in place for a successful section 75 claim.
Miss E disagreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything the parties have said, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75. I 
would usually expect the card provider to consider both. 
Chargeback
Chargeback refunds are capped at the amount paid on the card, so would not cover any 
consequential loss. And I can see that Nationwide suggested a chargeback could be raised 
and asked Miss E to amend the dispute form to just the transaction amount. However, Miss 
E wanted her claim considered under section 75, so she could include her consequential 
losses. In the circumstances I dont think a chargeback was a suitable avenue to resolve 
Miss Es dispute. So, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly when it didnt pursue a 
chargeback on Miss Es behalf. 
section 75
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. And allows the claimant to equally hold the provider of 
credit liable for consequential loss that directly results from the breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
One of those circumstances is that there must be a DCS agreement in place for a successful 
section 75 claim to be made. 
Miss E paid for the room with her credit card and was responsible for repaying the amount 
owed by her credit provider, so she is the debtor, Nationwide is the creditor and I accept that 
A was acting as an agent for the hotel, so I think it was the supplier here. Even if Im wrong 
about this, I think the required DCS agreement is broken here for a different reason. And Ill 
explain why below.
The problem here is there is some uncertainty about who would have a claim for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against A. Ive looked at a copy of the booking confirmation 
form, the receipt and cancellation email, none of these documents are in Miss Es name.  
And Miss E has told us that she paid for the accommodation for her parents as a gift. So, 
there was no intention that she would be staying there.  
Ultimately this means that whilst Miss E made the payment, she wasnt the person 
contracting with A, but it appears that her mother had the contract with A, as her name 
appears on the relevant documentation. So, my view is Miss E wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim against A for a breach of contract, in respect of the cancelled accommodation. 
It follows that I dont think the required DCS agreement is in place. In the circumstances, I 
dont think Nationwide acted unfairly when it declined Miss Es section 75 claim. So, I wont 
be asking it to do anything else in respect of this complaint.
customer services
Miss E was unhappy with the time taken to process her claim. I can see there were 
occasions when Miss E was asked for further information. And whilst I can appreciate this 
wouldve been frustrating, evidence is required to support a section 75 claim. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake here or unduly delayed the 
consideration of her claim. So, I wont be asking it to pay any compensation. 
I sympathise with Miss Es position, but the rules surrounding section 75 claims are strict, so 
Im unable to uphold her complaint. I know this decision is likely to be disappointing to Miss 
E, but this is the final stage of our process, and we are unable to consider this complaint 
further. Miss E is free to reject my decision and pursue this matter through the courts if she 
wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman