DRN-3388249
The complaint
Mr J complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr J was given two loans by ELL. He first borrowed £2,000 in November 2017 that he 
agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Around a year later Mr J refinanced that loan and 
took around £1,782 of additional borrowing. So in December 2018 Mr J borrowed £3,100 
that he again agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Mr J repaid his loan, slightly earlier 
than planned, in December 2020.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the checks 
ELL had done before agreeing each loan had been proportionate. But she thought the 
results of those checks should have led the lender to decline both applications. So she 
asked ELL to pay some compensation to Mr J.
ELL didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment, but it offered to put things right on the 
second loan as had been proposed. But it still didnt think it had been wrong to give the first 
loan to Mr J. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr J accepts my decision 
it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Js complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Mr J required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr J. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr J undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr J.
ELL gathered some information from Mr J before it agreed each loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical data to 
estimate the remainder of Mr Js expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. And ELL 
looked at copies of Mr Js bank statements to verify some of the information hed provided.
Each time Mr J was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make 
monthly repayments on each loan for a period of two years. So I think it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Js financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that ELLs checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
I think the information shown on Mr Js bank statements at the time of the first loan would 
bring into question some of the assumptions that ELL made when it was assessing how 
much disposable income hed have available to make his loan repayments. There are two 
aspects in particular that I think ELL should have taken into account.
The bank statements Mr J provided showed two months of income payments from his 
employer. In July 2017 Mr J received £1,670, and in August 2017 he received £1,443. Mr J 
also provided ELL with a copy of his payslip for September 2017 that showed his income for 
that month as being £1,620. Using the year to date figures ELL calculated that Mr Js 
average monthly income was £1,824. And it was that average figure ELL used when 
assessing the affordability of the loan.Mr Js payslip showed that his income comprised a base salary and commission payments. 
It is clear from the variability in his income that those commission payments were not 
guaranteed and might fluctuate from month to month. His income in August was less than 
80% of the income ELL used in its affordability assessment. I think ELL needed to take 
better account of the probability that, in at least some months, Mr Js income would be lower 
than average, and so it might be more difficult for him to meet any repayments.
When ELL calculated what Mr J would need to repay each month on his outstanding credit 
card balances it used an estimate of 3%. Generally I dont think that would be an 
unreasonable way of estimating those repayments  3% was the normal minimum 
repayment that would need to be made on credit card accounts of this type. But the 
evidence from Mr Js bank statements showed that, for the two months they covered, he had 
made much higher repayments. On the two credit cards with the largest balances Mr J had 
repaid between 10% and 15% of the outstanding balances each month. I dont think it would 
be unreasonable to conclude that Mr J would expect to continue making repayments of that 
size after taking out the new loan.
ELLs assessment suggested that Mr J would have around £250 left over each month after 
making his repayments on the new loan. But, as can be seen from my comments above, that 
difference would be very quickly eradicated by a normal fluctuation in Mr Js income and/or 
him continuing to make credit card repayments as his payment history suggested was the 
norm.
So I dont think it was reasonable, from the information it received from its checks, for ELL to 
conclude that Mr J would be able to repay the first loan every month for a period of two years 
in a sustainable manner. I dont think ELL should have given this loan to Mr J.
As I said earlier, ELL offered to pay the compensation our adjudicator had recommended in 
relation to the second loan. But in its response ELL made it clear that it didnt agree with the 
adjudicators finding that the loan had been lent irresponsibly. So I think it is right that I put 
ELLs offer to the side, and consider independently what happened at the time of the second 
loan.
The bank statements Mr J provided before the second loan again showed two months of 
income payments from his employer. In October 2018 Mr J received £2,431, and in 
November 2017 he received £1,439. Mr J also provided ELL with a copy of his payslip for 
November 2017 from which, using the year to date figures, ELL calculated that his average 
monthly income was £2,041. As before it was that average figure ELL used when assessing 
the affordability of the loan.
The difference between Mr Js monthly income in November and the average figure that ELL 
used in its affordability assessment was even greater than before. His November income 
was only 70% of the average. So I think that again underlined the real difficulty that Mr J 
would have in some months in meeting his loan repayments.
Mr J had asked to refinance his loan after just half of the agreed term. And at that time he 
asked to take some additional borrowing to support the costs he expected to face over the 
forthcoming Christmas period. The credit check showed that during the past year, whilst he 
was repaying his first loan, Mr J had regularly used short term lending to support his normal 
expenditure. The first loan that ELL had provided, that was partly for consolidating some 
other short-term debt, had not allowed Mr J to break out of the short-term borrowing cycle 
that he was in.
So I dont think it was reasonable for ELL to give the second loan to Mr J either. The same 
concerns about his disposable income in some months remained unchanged from the time of the first loan. And the worsening of Mr Js credit position suggested that he had struggled 
to manage his money in the previous year.
So I dont think ELL should have given either loan to Mr J, and as a result it needs to pay 
him some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to lend to Mr J in November 2017 or December 2018. 
So ELL should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr J paid on each loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to the loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman