DRN-3271350
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited have told him the life cover he has for his wife 
under a My Partner plan will cease when he leaves his employer. And that he cant continue 
the policy after he leaves his employment.
What happened
Mr Ps employer offers a group life assurance policy. The policy is only available to 
employees and it isnt medically underwritten. Mr P chose to take out the option of life cover 
on his wife when he joined his employer more than 10 years ago. The policy ends if Mr P 
leaves the employer, or if Mr P or his wife pass, whichever comes first, or if Mr P elected to 
end the cover. Mr P pays the premium through his employers payroll.
In 2019, Mr Ps wife was diagnosed with incurable cancer and wont be able to take out 
further life cover.
In November 2020, Mr P was put on notice of redundancy and has remained with his 
employer on a secondment. Hes scheduled to leave in March 2022. Mr P asked HSBC Life 
to allow the policy to continue when he left the employer as this cover was the only life cover 
available to his wife. HSBC Life said the policy would finish when he left his employer. Mr P 
complained to HSBC Life that it wasnt his choice to leave the employer and that he should 
be given a continuation option.
HSBC Life provided a final response to Mr P to explain the cover is only available to 
employees and the My Partner cover has no continuation option. Mr Ps employers made 
further representations to HSBC Life. However, HSBC Life confirmed the policy was an 
employee benefit and that there is no option to continue cover when employment ends.
Mr P brought his complaint to our Service as he felt HSBC Life had treated him unfairly. One 
of our Investigators looked into things for Mr P and thought that HSBC Life had acted in line 
with the terms of the policy and hadnt done anything wrong. Mr P didnt agree and asked 
that an Ombudsman decides his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with Mr P and I acknowledge the distress this matter has caused him and his 
family. And I understand Mr Ps strong view that HSBC Life should allow the policy to 
continue when he leaves his employment. I also acknowledge that Mr Ps impending 
departure from his employment and that the loss of valuable life cover for his wife will add to 
his worries and stress. However, for very much the same reasons as our Investigator gave, 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint against HSBC Life. I will now explain why.
The terms of the policy were provided to Mr P, and it seems both HSBC Life and Mr P agree 
he made annual elections in respect of the cover. The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that its 
unfair the policy ends when he leaves his employment, and that HSBC Life havent taken 
into account he hasnt chosen to leave his employer. 
The employee guide for the policy explains, Upon leaving [employer] employment, the Life 
Assurance for My Partner benefit stops. And, that the benefit may be purchased by anyone 
employed by the principal employer  or any other participating employer within the 
[employer] group of companies. I understand Mr P feels that because he is being made 
redundant, or is leaving after a fixed-term secondment, HSBC Life should offer an option for 
the cover to continue. However, the policy terms make it clear only employees of the 
principal business can have a My Partner policy, so when they leave it must end. And there 
is no option to continue the policy.
Mr Ps employers made representations on his behalf to HSBC Life to allow the continuation 
of the policy. But after further consideration by the Chief Executive Office and Head of 
Insurance, HSBC Life said they couldnt agree to an exception.
Ive though carefully the comments Mr P has made in his responses to our Investigator and 
throughout his complaint. I will address some of these directly, but for the most part Mr P has 
referred me to other types of policies that provide options to extend. I acknowledge that 
different policies have other extension options, but I have to take into account that this 
particular policy does not. I have seen that HSBC Life told Mr P the My Partner policy cant 
be administered for anyone whos not on the employers payroll. I think this endorses the 
policy is only available to employees of the principal business and a separate direct debit is 
not possible. And, whilst I accept Mr P hasnt chosen to leave his employer, I cant tell HSBC 
Life to act outside the terms of the policy as the policy came to an end when he left. 
Mr P believes HSBC Life didnt make it clear alternative cover wouldnt be available on a like 
for like basis when he left his employment. Mr P says the employee guide led him to believe 
that alternative cover would be available for his wife if he left his employment. Mr P says the 
Financial Conduct Authority expects firms to communicate information in a clear, fair, and 
not misleading way, when a customer is entering into a policy. Ive considered this and Ive 
looked at the employee guide.
The employee guide explains replacement life cover can be applied for with HSBC Life if Mr 
P left his employer. And it provides a link to the protection policies HSBC Life have available. 
There is also a further section that provides an email address if Mr P had any questions 
about replacement cover. I understand Mr P believes HSBC Life shouldve specifically told 
him that any cover purchased couldnt be replaced on a like for like basis. However, the 
guide explicitly stated the policy ended if he left employment and that he would have to apply 
for replacement cover with HSBC Life, or seek impartial financial advice. And it provided 
links to other policies that may be suitable, but which would need medical underwriting. 
Therefore, I dont consider that HSBC Life provided unclear or misleading information about 
the policy to Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about HSBC Life (UK) Limited and I 
wont be asking them to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman