DRN-3084859
The complaint
Mrs S complains that AXA Insurance UK Place wont settle her full contents insurance claim 
for lost jewellery. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs S made a claim under her home insurance policy for the unexplained loss 
of 4 rings. She told AXA that shed last seen them altogether about 3 weeks before but there 
had been a lot of people coming and going to her house and now she couldnt find them. 
AXA accepted the claim and appointed its jewellery validation expert to deal with it. It told 
AXA that the total validated amount for the 4 lost items was £63,575 broken down as: 
1. Ladies single stone diamond solitaire ring £49,100 (discounted amount £29,460) 
specified on the policy for £10,000
2. Ladies diamond cluster ring £3,425 (discounted amount £2,055)
3. Ladies eternity ring £9,950 (discounted amount £5,970)
4. Ladies gold band £1,100 (discounted amount £660)
The validation expert told AXA that the claim was therefore valued at £18,685 once the 
specified item limit and the discounts were applied. It also said that item 1 had been 
specified on the policy at £10,000 for a number of years and there was one photograph 
provided by Mrs S as proof of ownership. It said items 2 & 3 were unsubstantiated and 
based on description only and item 4 appeared in the same photograph as item 1. The 
expert said that Mrs S had said that after lockdown she intended to visit the jeweller to obtain 
further substantiation for the lost items. AXA said itd wait for that information before taking 
any further action on the claim. 
Over a month later the expert called the jeweller. He said that he remembered seeing item 1 
on Mrs Ss finger and that the stone was approximately 4ct in size. The jeweller said he felt it 
was a genuine diamond but he hadnt taken it off of Mrs Ss finger to inspect it for size, 
clarity, colour or to see if it was genuine. 
The expert had concerns that one photograph and the jewellers comments werent sufficient 
substantiation for item 1. It said to AXA that no valuation for the ring had ever been obtained. 
Towards the end of May, AXA told Mrs S that it was currently only prepared to settle for item 
4 (due to its low value) and that it needed further substantiation for items 1-3 but particularly 
item 1. It agreed to give Mrs S more time to try and provide it. 
Mrs S provided the expert with some photographs but it told AXA at the beginning of July 
2020 that whilst they showed rings being worn they werent clear enough to assist with 
validation. So the expert told Mrs S that it was still unable to offer settlement for items 1-3 
due to lack of substantiation. 
AXA wrote to Mrs S towards the end of July 2020 and said that for items 2 & 3 it required at 
least one clear photograph of each item and that item 1 would need some supporting 
paperwork even with the application of the policy limit. It pointed out to Mrs S that the policy 
terms said that it was the responsibility of the policyholder to substantiate their claim. It said 
if she could prove ownership of items 2 & 3 it would settle them. And it said that generally, 
the higher the value of the item claimed, the more substantiation it required. 
At the start of August the expert confirmed to AXA that Mrs S had provided a clear 
photograph of item 2 so it was happy this had now been substantiated. 
Mrs S wrote to AXA in the middle of August 2020 to say shed tried to substantiate the claim 
and that shed provided a photograph of item 1 and verbal confirmation from the jeweller. 
She said she didnt understand what would happen next with the claim. In late September, 
she raised a complaint with AXA about its refusal to accept the photograph and verbal 
confirmation from the jeweller as sufficient substantiation for Item 1. 
AXA issued its final response to Mrs Ss complaint in mid-November 2020. It said its 
valuation expert had highlighted a substantial difference between the validated cost of items 
1 & 3 against their insured amounts, the overall contents sum insured and the lack of 
substantiation provided. It said the comments from the jeweller about item 1 werent 
definitive enough so that was why itd asked for further proof but unfortunately the 
photographs provided werent clear enough to assist with validation. AXA apologised for the 
frustration caused by the claims process but said the onus was on Mrs S to evidence the 
items she was claiming for. 
AXA said it was reasonable for it to ask for the loss to be evidenced and it referred to the 
policy endorsement that said that items of jewellery that exceeded £5,000 in value needed to 
be examined by a competent jeweller once every three years. It accepted that there was a 
sentimental attachment to the items claimed so itd taken a pragmatic approach and settled 
for items 2 & 4 based on the evidence and descriptions provided. It said it was willing to 
place the claim on hold for the time being until such time as further information could be 
provided. For the distress caused by the claims process it paid Mrs S compensation of £100. 
In December 2020, AXA wrote to Mrs S to ask if she wanted to accept settlement for items 2 
& 4 (it gave her the option to receive replacements, cash or a voucher). It also said that as 
items 1 & 3 hadnt been adequately substantiated it was unable to offer any settlement for 
them. 
Unhappy with the outcome of AXAs investigation into her complaint, Mrs S complained to 
this service in December 2020. She said she was unhappy with AXAs decision not to pay 
out for all the items of jewellery shed lost. Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint but 
didnt recommend that it was upheld because she thought that AXA had handled Mrs Ss 
claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
Mrs S disagreed with out investigators findings. She said that for the two items (2 & 4) that 
AXA had provided settlement for she had provided evidence for one but not the other. So 
she said that AXA was being inconsistent. Mrs S reiterated that the validation expert had 
spoken to the jeweller about item 1. Mrs S said she thought AXA should pay for all 4 rings, 
that AXA hadnt given us all the information, that she wanted the complaint referred for an 
ombudsmans decision and that she wanted the ombudsman to call her. Our investigator 
said it was unlikely that the ombudsman would call her and she said that nothing Mrs S had 
said had caused her to change her mind about the outcome of the complaint so she was 
referring the complaint for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment my decision will cause Mrs S, I dont think her complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I do appreciate that the loss of four items of jewellery that held such sentimental value for 
Mrs S must be very distressing for her. But despite my natural sympathy for the situation she 
finds herself in I cant reasonably ignore what it says in her policy terms and conditions. 
These, together with the policy schedule form the contract between Mrs S and AXA. They 
set out the insured events that are covered  such as theft  and what exclusions, 
obligations and conditions apply. Some of the conditions in the policy apply to Mrs S. I can 
see too that there is a specific policy endorsement. An endorsement is a change to the 
printed policy terms and is shown on the policy schedule. An endorsement to a policy 
typically requires the policyholder to take certain actions in order for there to be cover under 
the policy. 
In the case of Mrs S I can see that endorsement AQMO1 Jewellery has been added to her 
policy by AXA. It says that any item of jewellery valued at more than £5,000 must be 
inspected every 3 years. If Mrs S had complied with this endorsement then it is reasonable 
to think that there wouldve been some form of documentary evidence relating to the value of 
items 1 & 3 at the time they were lost. 
Its up to each individual insurer what cover they offer, on what terms and at what price. 
Here, AXA had amended the terms to include the specific policy endorsement for jewellery 
that I mention above. In so doing, AXA was seeking to ensure the cover it was offering was 
sufficient for the value of the items being insured. 
So whilst I note that one photograph of item 1 has been provided, and a jeweller who said he 
saw (but didnt inspect) the ring was spoken to, I dont think AXA has unreasonably declined 
to settle this item, and item 3, on the basis that this substantiation was insufficient for such 
high value items. Its regrettable that Mrs S hadnt complied with the policy endorsement 
because, I suspect, that if she had then the substantiation AXA required for both items 1 & 3 
wouldve existed. But I dont think that AXA unreasonably said  given the values  that 
unclear photographs and the comments of a jeweller who didnt inspect item 1, wasnt 
enough substantiation in the circumstances. 
Unfortunately, given the value of item 1 (even if just applying the policy limit) the comment 
from the jeweller that he remembers the ring isnt enough to make me require AXA to pay 
the claim. I dont doubt that Mrs S owned the ring  nor do I think AXA does. But in order to 
assess what it should pay for it under the policy terms, AXA does need evidence about its 
actual size, clarity, colour and authenticity. So given AXA was being asked to pay out at 
least £10,000 for item 1 I dont think it was unreasonable that it sought proof it was worth 
what it had, at the very least, been specified as on the policy. And unfortunately theres no 
clear photograph at all of item 3.
And I can see too that the policy terms stipulate that AXA can ask for documentation to help 
prove the claim. So I dont think the fact that its done so is unreasonable. I know that Mrs S 
has said that the policy terms state that AXA may ask for documentation, but the discretion 
whether to do so or not rests with AXA. That means if it wishes to ask for that evidence, it 
can. Similarly, AXA has taken a pragmatic view about settling for items 2 & 4. I appreciate 
that Mrs S may have provided evidence for one of the items but not the other but its up to 
AXA  as set out in the policy terms  to decide what documentation and proof to request. 
So I dont think its been unreasonable here by not requesting proof of item 4.  I have closely reviewed all the photographs provided by Mrs S and I also think that they, 
unfortunately, dont clearly depict items 1 & 3. 
AXA said in response to Mrs Ss claim that it would leave her claim open for the time being 
to give her time to see if she could find the substantiation it needed. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. And I also think that the compensation it paid of her of 
£100 for the frustration she was caused by the claims process was fair and reasonable and 
in line with awards made by this service in similar circumstances. So Im not going to make 
AXA do any more. 
I would like to reassure Mrs S that Ive listened to the most recent call with our investigator 
and have taken its contents into account when reaching my decision. I know that she said 
she wanted to speak to me before I issued my decision, however, I need to fair to both 
parties and I cant fairly speak to one party without the other being present. In addition I 
would like to reassure her that she has been able to present her complaint clearly and Ive 
understood the issues and reviewed all the evidence provided. If I had felt, in reaching this 
decision, that anything needed to be further clarified then I would have asked our 
investigator to contact one or other of the parties on my behalf but fortunately that hasnt 
been necessary. 
So, it follows that I think that AXA considered Mrs Ss claim fairly and reasonably and that 
this is a complaint Im unable to uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman