DRN-4145914
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua, irresponsibly granted him a 
credit card account he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr W entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit by way of a credit 
card account. The account was opened in December 2013 with a credit limit of £250. This 
increased to £550 in January 2015, £1,150 in May 2015, £1,900 in November 2015, £2,800 
in July 2016 and finally to £4,050 in February 2017. 
The card went into default in May 2022 when the account was ended. In August 2022 the 
outstanding debt was sold on to a third party. 
Mr W says NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says if it had, it would have seen that each agreement wasnt affordable for him 
from the outset and that having it worsened his financial situation. 
NewDay said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Mr Ws 
financial circumstances before granting him the card account and each of the credit limit 
increases.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought NewDay didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account and each of the credit limit increases. 
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set out all of that in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before opening the account I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr W about his ability to repay. I say this because it asked for details about 
his income, job and other information relating to his financial situation, including details about 
money he owed elsewhere. NewDay also completed a credit check which showed no 
adverse information. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it 
doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Having reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered, Im satisfied that the 
checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr W. 
I say this because Mr W was at the time earning a gross annual income of £22,000 a year. 
He had a number of credit accounts but owed only a relatively modest total sum of £500 in 
unsecured debt. Mr W also did not appear overly reliant on cash borrowing and had not had 
any recent arrears or account defaults and had no County Court judgments. Our adjudicator 
noted a historical default for £200. Whilst this could be suggestive of financial difficulty, given 
that it was added to Mr Ws credit records almost four years earlier, I agree it wasnt 
sufficiently close to the date of the agreement to be something that might be considered 
relevant to his financial situation. 
All of this suggests Mr W was likely to have been in a reasonably stable position financially 
at the time the account was opened. So I dont think NewDay acted unfairly when approving 
the finance application.
We also asked Mr W for some further details and evidence about his financial 
circumstances. Mr W sent us a breakdown hed prepared of his finances at the time. 
Unfortunately, this isnt sufficient information on its own to help us determine whether or not 
NewDay made a fair lending decision, either for the account opening or the credit limit 
increases. So Ive also looked at how Mr W was operating his account. 
For the first credit limit increase in January 2015, Ive noted that by that point Mr W had used 
up almost all the available credit. He was making mostly only minimum payments month but 
appeared generally to be managing the card well, for instance without incurring any late fees 
or charges. Also, the increase was relatively modest and I cant see anything in the 
information that was available to NewDay at the time to suggest that Mr Ws might be getting 
into difficulty with debt he held elsewhere. 
For the later credit limit increases, Mr W was continuing to manage his account relatively 
well, although its fair to say he tended to make payments that were at or only slightly above 
the minimum payment required. The credit check information available to NewDay didnt 
suggest that any of the later credit limit increases were likely to be unaffordable. His 
borrowing elsewhere also raised no real cause for concern. 
Ive noticed that Mr W appears to have substantially increased his level of borrowing 
elsewhere prior to being granted his fifth credit limit increase. But again, Mr W continued to 
manage his account well and made was using less than half of the available credit limit 
increase. 
In summary, the available evidence and information Ive seen demonstrates that Mr W 
appears to have had enough disposable income each month to make regular, sustainable 
repayments towards each of these credit limit increases. 
Ive seen that Mr W has referred to another unaffordable lending complaint he brought to this 
service where his complaint was upheld. I think its important to say here that each complaint 
is considered afresh under its own specific facts. Also, from what Ive seen, due to 
jurisdiction issues, a different period of lending was being looked into for that complaint. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr W says he is unhappy with the level of help he received from 
NewDay after he told them he was in financial difficulty. Ive looked at NewDays customer 
records and notes to see what happened. Ive seen that in 2017, 2018 and 2020 NewDay 
wrote to Mr W about the fact he was making only minimum payments, suggesting ways he could improve things and the potential adverse consequences for his credit record. In 2019 it 
also wrote to him to say he was paying more in interest, fees and charges than he was 
actually borrowing on the card. And in September 2021 NewDay agreed to set up a payment 
arrangement at a lower rate than what would normally be required by way of a minimum 
payment each month. 
So, whilst I cant say that NewDays actions were necessarily appropriate at all times, I dont 
think NewDays opening of the account and granting of each of the five credit limit increases 
was enough to cause Mr W to lose out. As Im not persuaded that NewDay acted unfairly, I 
dont think they need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman