DRN-1491398
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Darlington Building Society (DBS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1999 with a mortgage. 
The policy was taken out in one of the lenders branches when Mr and Mrs B were applying 
for a joint mortgage. The policy provided Mr B with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and I've taken 
this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs B's case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think DBS recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B, 
so the key question I need to consider is:
Did the society give Mr and Mrs B information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice about 
the insurance they were buying?
 
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs B are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different - such as not taking out the 
policy - if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they didn't know anything about the PPI, and that they werent told the 
insurance was optional. I've noted everything Mr and Mrs B have said. I understand Mr and 
Mrs B were experiencing a difficult and stressful time around the time their mortgage and 
PPI were arranged, and I'm sympathetic to the position they were in.
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and 
DBS when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.But I note that their mortgage application included a section about PPI. Applicants were 
given a choice about whether or not they wanted the cover, and they had to decide the 
amount of cover they wanted. Mr and Mrs B's application was completed to show that they 
wanted the PPI. The option to decline the cover was set out in the same section of the form. 
On balance I consider it likely that the societys adviser would have discussed the PPI with 
Mr and Mrs B before the form was completed. Although I accept it is possible PPI wasnt 
discussed, it is equally likely it was - although I can understand why Mr and Mrs B may no 
longer remember this. 
Mr B would've also had to complete a separate application form to apply for the PPI.
So on balance I think DBS made Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and 
they chose to take it.
DBS didnt recommend the policy to Mr B, so it didnt have to check whether it was suitable 
for him. It's not clear whether Mr B was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But even if he 
was, the policy would have paid out in addition to any other benefits he might have been 
entitled to, and would have been helpful if he couldnt work.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs B before they 
agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the policy, knowing they would have to 
pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Mr B satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. In addition, his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions). 
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the cover knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman