DRN-1677034
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about poor service from Lloyds Bank plc when he opened a new account. 
What happened
Mr L tried to open a new account with Lloyds online. But there were problems with the 
bank's website, so Mr L visited a branch instead. He waited to be served, but was told he'd 
have to make an appointment to open an account. The application process started on the 
phone, but the call was cut off towards the end. The application had to start again when Mr L 
spoke to Lloyds later that day.
Mr L considered he'd wasted a lot of time trying to open the account.
Lloyds accepted some of its service could've been better. It acknowledged there had been a 
problem with its website, and that it should've called Mr L back when the first phone call was 
cut off. Lloyds also accepted it had been inconvenient to start the application process again 
on the second call.
Lloyds paid £40 for the inconvenience caused, and £26 to cover Mr L's phone calls. 
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied the 
compensation paid by Lloyds was fair and reasonable, in light of the mistakes made.
Mr L didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions. He said, in summary, that Lloyds' 
compensation didn't properly reflect the amount of time he'd spent opening the account. Mr L 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has acknowledged that some of its service could've been better. It accepted there 
were problems with its website, and it recognised it should've called Mr L back when its first 
phone call to him was cut off. 
I can appreciate Mr L's frustration at the difficulties he experienced trying to open 
the account. So I can see why he might consider Lloyds' compensation isn't enough, based 
on the amount of time he spent on the account opening process.
But I've taken into account of the nature of Lloyds' service issues, together with 
compensation awards by this service in complaints of a similar nature. And having done so, 
I'm satisfied that the compensation paid by Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So I won't be asking the bank to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman