DRN-4036803
The complaint
Mr C has complained to Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as Acenden about 
the information that has been reported to the credit reference agencies about his jointly held 
mortgage account.
He says his ex-wife stopped making the mortgage  payments whilst their divorce was going 
through, and he wasnt aware as any correspondence about the missed payments was sent 
to an address he no longer lived at.
Mr C would like his credit file to be amended to remove reference to the missed payments as 
it is impacting his ability to get a new mortgage.
What happened
Mr C took out this mortgage with his now ex-wife in August 2007. They borrowed £25,500 
(plus fees) over 25 years at a variable rate of interest. The payments were around £265 a 
month at the initial interest rate. The terms of the mortgage were that both parties were 
jointly and severally liable for the debt.
It appears from the contact notes that Mr C left the property in 2014, initially moving in with 
his parents until he moved into a rental property. The contact notes show Mr C updated his 
address in early 2014 to his parents address
The divorce was finalised, and a financial order was made in July 2021 which gave the 
property to Mr Cs ex-wife, as long as she removed Mr C from the mortgage account and 
paid him a lump sum.
In the meantime, some payments were missed with some being made up later, and then no 
payments were made from July 2021 until the mortgage was repaid in full in February 2022.
Mr C raised a complaint with Acenden in October 2022. Acenden didnt uphold the complaint 
and so Mr C referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and was of the view that Acenden hadnt 
done anything wrong. They said the information was correctly reported because he was still 
a party to the mortgage and those payments were missed. She also said that a text 
message had been sent to Mr C in November 2021 asking him to get in touch, and he hadnt 
done so.
Mr C didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I 
have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and we look at things independently 
without taking sides. We can only order a business to do something to put things right if 
were first satisfied it has done something wrong; we cant order a business to do something 
as a gesture of goodwill, or otherwise.
Whilst I note in his recent call with our investigator Mr C said that if hed known about the 
missed payments he would have paid them, I must keep in mind that in his original complaint 
to our service Mr C said he had no way of making the payments:
 notwithstanding the fact that even if I had checked my credit file regularly and noticed 
this problem occurring I wouldnt have been able to step in as I didnt have the financial 
resources or expandable income to make those payments. I was myself on a reduced 
income due to being furloughed in 2020 and having to take out unexpected loans to make 
ends meet so I spent much of the latter part of 2020 and all of 2021 paying those loans 
back n full.
Whilst not infallible, the contact notes are a fairly good contemporaneous record of the 
contact between the parties on an account.
Here I can see that in early 2014 Mr C attempted to make an online payment to the 
mortgage account using his debit card, but the payment failed because the registered 
address of the debit card didnt match the address Acenden held for Mr C. When Acenden 
spoke to Mr C to take the card payment over the phone, it was told the debit card was 
registered at Mr Cs parents address as he and his ex-wife were going through a separation. 
At that time Mr Cs correspondence address was updated to his parents address. Hes told 
us he lived with his parents for around six months. Whilst Mr C has told us (see below) that 
his ex-wife updated his address to his parents address, Im satisfied from the contact notes 
that it was in fact Mr C that did that.
Mr C has given us varying testimony about what happened after he moved from his parents 
address into his rental property:
I tried to phone Accenden to update my address around the time I moved out of this 
property but I couldnt pass the security and password questions and so was told by the 
staff member on the phone to email Accenden with an updated address. I only found 
out after the court case that this hadnt been updated [complaint form]
please note they have my address details as an address I only lived in for six months 
after moving out of [mortgaged property], [Mr Cs ex-wife] at the time of separation did 
give accenden my forwarding address on this occasion but when I moved onto a more 
permanent address this was not done, Accenden wouldn't let me change any details at 
that time as i couldn't pass security to access their online portal. They asked me to 
contact them in writing which I did but nothing happened and I didnt receive a 
response. [email to our investigator in February]
After speaking with the call handler at Accenden to change my address I was told I 
needed to pass security to give them this information, they could have done a lot more 
at that point to be helpful, all I would have had to do was for instance send them my 
photo Id which they could verify. I was told that I must send them a letter which I did with my new address on, this is poor customer service on their part. [email to our 
investigator in March]
As the testimony has varied between a call, online portal, email and letter Ive looked into all 
the options to see if there is any record of those contacts to ensure nothing was overlooked.
In terms of calls, the only two mentions of security not being passed after early 2014 were:
December 2021 which was an outgoing call from Acenden (it isnt clear if that was to 
Mr C or to his ex-wife).
November 2022 which was an outgoing call from Acenden to Mr C about this 
complaint.
Neither of those calls match an incoming call from Mr C to try to change his address at some 
point around the end of 2014 or beginning of 2015, which is when it seems he moved to the 
rental property.
There is also no record of either an email or letter being received from Mr C with his updated 
address on it, or that information was given (or was attempted to be given) through an online 
portal. It is unfortunate that Mr C didnt follow up on his letter or email when he didnt receive 
a response, as it would be usual to expect a response in such a case.
Acenden sent Mr C a text message in November 2021 saying that it needed to talk to him 
about his mortgage account and asking him to call in. Mr C hasnt denied receiving that 
message, only saying on the phone to our investigator that it would be unfair that his life is 
impacted in such a way on the basis of one text message, and in an email he said this is 
below par customer service for something as important as a mortgage. But it wasnt just one 
text message, that was just one of the attempts to contact Mr C and his ex-wife. 
Various arrears letters were sent addressed to Mr C at his parents address. It is unfortunate 
Acenden didnt receive notification of Mr Cs updated address, and it is also unfortunate 
those letters werent passed onto Mr C.
I can understand why Mr C is so upset about what has happened as he thought his ex-wife 
was making the mortgage payments, and matters should also have already been settled 
under the terms of the divorce agreement. I have a great deal of sympathy for his situation. 
But I cant decide this case based on my level of sympathy for Mr C, or on what his ex-wife 
may or may not have done wrong. I can only decide this complaint based on whether or not 
Acenden did anything wrong in reporting the arrears on Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C was still named on the mortgage agreement as he hadnt been removed, so he 
remained jointly and severally liable for the monthly payments as well as the overall balance. 
When those monthly payments werent made  irrespective of the court order between Mr C 
and his ex-wife  Acenden had to report those missed payments to both their credit files as 
that was the true reflection of their joint account. Even if Acenden had entered into an 
agreement that the payments would be missed as the mortgage was to be repaid in full, as 
Mr C has said it should, then those missed payments would still have been recorded on both 
borrowers credit files. There is no way the payments could have been not made and the 
credit files not to have shown that.
I could only order Acenden to amend Mr Cs credit file information if I was satisfied it had 
been reported incorrectly  I cant order it to amend the information just because I have 
sympathy for Mr Cs situation. Having considered everything very carefully, Im satisfied 
Acenden didnt report the information incorrectly.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman