DRN-3118887
The complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
has placed a late payment marker on his credit file. He said this is overly punitive, and he 
wants M&S to take this marker off.
What happened
Mr D told us hed recently signed up to view his credit file in full, and hed discovered it 
showed a missed payment on his M&S credit card in December 2017. Mr D said he 
remembered this, it happened because his credit card statement didnt arrive, so in January, 
he just made double the payment.
Mr D said hed spoken to M&S and explained that this was affecting his credit file. He 
wanted M&S to remove this late payment marker, but it wouldnt. Mr D said this was overly 
punitive as its the only mistake hed made, and it wasn't his fault.
Mr D wanted the late payment marker removed and a £25 cheque for the trouble and upset 
this had caused him.
M&S said it had put this late payment marker on Mr Ds account after he missed a payment. 
It sent us the call Mr D made at the time, and a call he made more recently to complain 
about this. M&S wouldnt take this marker off Mr Ds credit file. It said it would only do that if 
it had made a mistake, and here it didnt think it had done anything wrong. So it wouldnt 
amend Mr Ds file, or pay compensation.
Our investigator said shed listened to the call Mr D made to M&S on 6 December 2017. Mr 
D was calling to make the payment due by 9 December 2017, but the advisor said hed 
missed the payment due by 9 November 2017. Hed last paid on 6 October. Our investigator 
said Mr D had his statements in front of him, and thought the two payments he had made in 
October would cover November. But the advisor explained that M&S had asked for another 
payment after this, on 23 October so thats the payment that was missed on the account. Mr 
D made his payment, and the advisor waived the fee hed been charged. 
Our investigator said it did look as if Mr Ds monthly minimum payment due by 9 November 
2017 was made late. M&S hadnt done anything wrong by telling credit reference agencies 
about this. All lenders have a duty to report correct and accurate information. It's important 
that credit files are an accurate record of a person's financial history. This is because other 
lenders may rely on that information when making credit decisions.
Our investigator said this may just have been an over-sight on Mr Ds part, but the payment 
was still missed, and we wouldnt expect M&S to call Mr D about that. She said M&S had 
acted fairly and reasonably, even if it may not feel fair.
Mr D didnt agree. He still felt M&Ss actions were overly punitive. He said M&S has a duty of 
care to allow someone to fix what has gone wrong if their account goes to collections, so 
surely the same treatment should be allowed for someone making an oversight. He wanted 
to know why M&S felt that such a small oversight should have such a negative effect on his 
financial future. He said M&S had never reminded him of the terms, and he wanted us to 
take account of that too. He thought we were biased towards M&S, and he wanted an 
ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that her role is to look at whether M&S 
made any error and if it did, to put that right. But here she said M&S hadnt made a mistake. 
Because Mr D wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, she passed this 
case to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Ive looked at Mr Ds statements from late 2017. And I can see that the statement issued on 
23 October 2017 asked Mr D to pay at least £8.33, at bank or in store, by 8 November 2017. 
The following statement, issued in late November, shows no payment had been made that 
month. Then the December 2017 statement shows a payment of £29.08, and a reversal of 
the charge M&S had applied for late payment. 
Ive listened to the call Mr D had with M&S in December 2017. As our investigator said, the 
missing payment dates from November 2017, not December. And this does appear to have 
been an oversight by Mr D. 
Mr D said at the time that M&S should have rung him, but our investigator has explained that 
M&S doesnt have to do that.
Mr D also said that if hed be given a chance to fix things if his account went into collections, 
then he should also be given a chance to fix things in this situation. But thats not quite what 
our investigator meant. 
Our investigator said regulations set out that a lender has to get in touch if a consumer is at 
risk of having a default applied or further action being taken. So there is a requirement for 
lenders to get in touch as a last ditch attempt to avoid a lending relationship breaking down 
completely (and that still doesnt have to be by phone, many lenders choose to write to 
customers about this). 
But thats not what happened here. There was never any suggestion that Mr Ds account 
would default. And our investigator was, I believe, trying to explain that M&S didnt have to 
ring Mr D to prompt him to make a payment, or to tell him that a payment had been missed. 
In my experience, its not usual for credit card companies to call their customers, if a 
payment date is missed. 
Unfortunately, our service does usually say that customers have to keep an eye on their 
accounts, so if someone has missed a payment, even if it was just an oversight, the bank is 
entitled to note this on that persons credit file. And even if a statement had gone missing, 
that wouldnt necessarily mean we would ask M&S to remove a late payment marker. 
Mr D has asked M&S to remove this marker as a gesture of goodwill, and it wont. Because I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for M&S to put this marker on Mr Ds credit file, I 
dont think I can tell M&S to remove this now.Mr D has argued that what M&S has done is overly punitive. But I dont agree. Although I 
understand Mr D feels this is harsh, what M&S has done is to update his credit file so it does 
match what happened on his account. Thats something lenders have to do. They all agree 
to tell credit refence agencies when payments are missed. Its part of the legal agreement 
that also allows lenders to access the information that a credit reference agency holds.
And M&S doesnt decide how this impacts Mr D. Its up to other lenders to decide what 
impact, if any, this missed payment would have. Again, in my experience, its not usual for 
one missed payment from some years ago, to significantly affect someones credit 
applications now. But if it does, thats a decision taken by the new lender, not by M&S.
I know Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman