DRN-3226928
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited failed to arrange his breakdown cover.
 
What happened
UKI sold and provided Mr Ms motor insurance policy. In June 2021 Mr Ms vehicle broke 
down. He called the provider of a breakdown policy he thought UKI had arranged for him 
when renewing his motor insurance policy. However, the breakdown firm told him he didnt 
have cover. He went on to arrange and pay for a private recovery agent to collect his 
vehicle. 
Mr M complained to UKI. It accepted it had made a mistake by not adding breakdown cover 
when his policy had renewed. To try to put things right it added the cover, free of charge, 
until the end of his motor insurance policy period. It paid him £100 compensation to 
recognise any distress it had caused. But as Mr M didnt have proof of payment for the 
recovery it refused to reimburse him that cost. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with UKIs response. Hes asked that UKI refund the full annual 
premium for his motor insurance policy  more than £1,000. After this service contacted UKI 
it agreed to reimburse Mr M £190 he paid for recovery of the vehicle  on top of the £100 
already paid to him.
Our investigator agreed UKI had made a mistake. But he felt it had now done enough to put 
things right for Mr M. So he didnt recommend it do anything further, like refund the cost of 
his motor insurance. Mr M didnt accept the assessment. He said £100 isnt enough to 
compensate him for what he experienced. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepts it made a mistake by not arranging breakdown cover for Mr M. So all I need to 
consider is if its done enough to put things right for him. Now its offered to reimburse him 
the cost of the recovery Im satisfied it has. UKI paying Mr M that means he isnt out of 
pocked as a result of its mistake. Plus its also provided breakdown cover for no charge for 
seven months.
Mr M feels £100 isnt enough compensation to recognise the impact of the mistake. He says 
it caused him unnecessary stress and anxiety  undermining his trust in insurance 
companies. He says hes spent a lot of time trying to resolve the issue. 
Ive considered these points and everything else hes said. I accept the matter caused Mr M 
inconvenience and frustration. But I feel £100 is enough to recognise the impact of UKIs 
mistake had. 
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr M, but I think UKIs already done enough to put 
things right for him. So Im not going to require it do anything further  like refund any of his 
motor insurance premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, (if it hasnt already done so) U K Insurance Limited should pay 
Mr M £190 to cover the cost of the recovery.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman