DRN-2798412
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that he was unable to access his Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) account on 
his mobile app which meant that he was unable to make payments to his credit card.
What happened
Mr M wanted to close his BOS accounts, but an error with his mobile app prevented him 
from closing his account via that channel. So, he made a complaint.
BOS acknowledged that there was an error, which they subsequently fixed, and they offered 
Mr M a payment of £150 to compensate him for any inconvenience incurred.
However, Mr M also stated that, because he was unable to access his account via the 
mobile app, he was unbale to make his credit card payments. Mr M contends that this 
ultimately led to BOS defaulting his account and selling the outstanding balance to a debt 
purchasing company. 
BOS didnt agree with this aspect of Mr Ms complaint and felt that there had been other 
ways for Mr M to have made payments on his credit card account. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Mr M could have made 
payments to the credit card account via alternative channels, so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS dont dispute that there was an error which meant that Mr M was able to access his 
BOS accounts on the mobile app for a period of time, and they made an offer of 
compensation to Mr M of £150 because of this. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer deemed fair and reasonable by one 
party not considered as such by someone else. However, the £150 that BOS have offered to 
Mr M in this instance feels fair to me, and is commensurate with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances.
Mr M contends that a direct consequence of his not being able to access his BOS accounts 
on his mobile app was that he was unable to make payments against his credit card 
account, and he feels that it was unfair of BOS to default his credit card account during a 
time that he was unable to make payments against it.
Im not convinced by this argument, especially given that its the case that Mr M could have 
made payments to his credit card account by a variety of other methods, including either in 
branch or by telephone, and its notable that Mr M did make a payment toward his account in 
branch around this time and also that BOS sent correspondence to Mr M which included 
telephone numbers for Mr M to call if he wanted to make a payment.
Its also the case that Mr Ms credit card account had been in arrears for some time prior to 
his being unable to access the account via the mobile app, and I feel that its reasonable to 
expect that Mr M would have been aware of the potential consequences of continuing non-
payment against that account, including that the account might ultimately be defaulted.
Finally, Im also aware that Mr M feels that BOS were making it deliberately difficult for him 
to access his accounts. But I can find no evidence to support this conjecture, and I note that 
the letters sent to Mr M by BOS providing contact telephone numbers appear to repute it.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that BOS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably to toward Mr M here, and Im satisfied that their response to Mr Ms complaint, 
including the offer of £150 compensation, represents a fair and reasonable resolution to 
what happened.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking BOS to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr M can understand, given everything that Ive explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman