DRN-3636123
The complaint
Ms L complains that Santander UK Plc has placed missed payment makers on her credit file, 
when payments were missed on a mortgage she holds jointly with another person. Ms L said 
these missed payments werent her fault, and it wasnt fair to penalise her.
What happened
Ms L said shed taken out a joint mortgage with her former partner, several years ago. But a 
couple of years ago, they had separated, and she moved out. Her ex-partner remained in 
the house and paid the mortgage. Ms Ls name was still on the mortgage account.
Ms L said that in August 2021, prior to a planned sale of the property, she received a letter 
telling her that the direct debit payment for that month had failed, and would be retried a 
week later. 
Ms L said then, at the start of October, just before the sale, she got another letter. This one 
said the mortgage was in arrears. Ms L said she discussed this with her former partner, and 
he told her he had stopped the direct debit payment, but this wouldnt affect the credit scores 
for either of them. Ms L then arranged to pay the arrears herself. 
Ms L said Santander hadnt taken her arrears payment into account, and had overcharged 
when the mortgage was redeemed. It took some months for the payment shed made in 
early October to be returned to her. 
Ms L said shes now looking for a new house, but shes discovered that the problems with 
the mortgage have impacted on her credit file. Ms L said she wasnt notified by her ex-
partner or the bank before the decision was made to stop the payments, and she felt she 
was being penalised. She said she cant get a mortgage with these marks on her file, and 
she wanted her credit file to be cleared.
Santander apologised for the length of time it had taken to make a refund to Ms L. It has 
paid her £100 to say sorry for this. But it wouldnt clear her credit file. It said it had written to 
her on 3 August 2021 about the missed direct debit, and then on 29 September 2021 to 
confirm that her mortgage account was in arrears. Santander said it wasnt able to amend 
any data on her credit file for the period that the mortgage account was in arrears, because it 
has to report factual information to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the mortgage was still 
held jointly between Ms L and her former partner, after she moved out. That meant she 
would be liable for any missed payments. Santander had explained it has a responsibility to 
report factual information to the CRAs. Payments were missed, Santander had to report this. 
Our investigator said what Santander had done was reasonable, and we cant ask them to 
remove the markers that were placed on Ms Ls credit file. But he suggested some other 
steps Ms L could take to minimise the impact of these markers. 
Our investigator said he was satisfied Santander had paid the refund that Ms L was due. 
Ms L didnt agree. She still felt she was being penalised for someone elses decision. She 
said she had no access to the account being used to pay the mortgage, and she hadnt 
taken the steps leading to the arrears. Ms L said that she couldnt even object, because by 
the time she found out about the problem, it was too late.
Ms L said she thought lenders should have to get in touch with the other person, when 
someone stops paying a joint mortgage. Ms L said she had an otherwise perfect credit file, 
but couldnt buy a new home because of this. She said she understood about joint liability, 
but she wanted us to reconsider. Ms L wanted her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
I understand Ms L feels it is very unfair that she should be penalised, because the decisions 
which affected her were taken by someone else. But when someone signs a joint mortgage 
like this, they do accept responsibility for that mortgage, together with the other person. 
And here, Santander did write to tell Ms L that the direct debit payment for August had been 
missed. So Ms L did know there was cause for concern. Ms L has told us she had no control 
over the account her ex-partner used to make the payments, but she does have access to 
the mortgage account. And shes told us she understands how joint liability works, so she 
presumably understood that she remained liable for the payments. So Ive got to take into 
account that she could have checked the position with Santander, after its letter, to make 
sure payments had resumed. 
Ms L said that her case was different, and unusual, because of her circumstances. But 
unfortunately it isnt that unusual for parties who are separating to still be linked financially 
for some time after their separation. And anything that happens during this time to those joint 
accounts continues to affect them both. Santander hasnt looked behind this, to see who 
Ms L and her former partner had decided should make the payments, and I dont think it 
would be appropriate to expect Santander to do that. Santander has stuck with the legal 
position, of both account holders being responsible for the account, and to the facts, whether 
the payments were made or not. 
I know Ms L feels that the impact of this is very unfair. But I dont think that what has gone 
wrong here is Santanders fault. And I dont think it has to amend her credit file to remove 
any arrears markers relating to this mortgage. 
Santander has accepted it did delay in repaying Ms L the amount shed paid in to the 
mortgage in October. Its apologised for that, and paid £100 in compensation to say sorry. I 
think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Ms Ls complaint.
I know Ms L will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman