DRN-3423617
The complaint
T is unhappy about the time it took HDI Global SE  UK (HDI) to handle its claim following 
an ingress of water from the upstairs propertys bathroom. T says HDI shouldve instructed 
trace and access much sooner to mitigate the damage.
Mr E brings this complaint on behalf of T, which is the leaseholder of properties in a block of 
flats. For simplicity, Ill also refer to Mr E throughout my decision.
What happened
T was the leaseholder of a rental property within a block of flats. The whole block was 
covered under a buildings insurance policy with HDI. T is entitled to bring this complaint as a 
beneficiary of the policy.
Ts tenant reported water ingress through the bathroom ceiling, so Mr E made a claim under 
the buildings insurance policy. Both HDI and Mr E believed the water was coming through 
the ceiling from the upstairs property.
HDI told T that it would cover repairs, but only once the leak itself was fixed. However, Mr E 
complained that HDI wasnt handling the claim promptly. He thought HDI shouldve traced 
the leak so that the responsible party could take steps to prevent further water ingress. He 
said that would mean HDI could then carry out repairs to the property.
Eventually, the bathroom ceiling came down and Mr E said HDI had put lives at risk by not 
tracing the leak.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ts complaint. He said Ts policy didnt cover trace and 
access, so HDI wasn't responsible for investigating the source of the leak.
T didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ts complaint. Both parties are aware of the circumstances of this 
complaint, so I wont go into detail about everything that happened  our rules dont require 
me to. Instead Ill focus on the key issues and reference the evidence which helps explain 
how I reached my decision. 
Theres no dispute that Ts bathroom suffered water damage, and I note HDI accepted the 
claim. However, Mr E says HDI shouldve arranged trace and access sooner so that the 
damage couldve been mitigated.
The responsibility lay with T to demonstrate that an insured peril had happened, and I see 
HDI asked T for a report on the cause of the leak and confirmation that it had been stopped. 
Thats in line with the way the policy operates so the evidence suggests HDI acted 
reasonably at this point.
But Mr E said HDI shouldve arranged trace and access and its failure to do that allowed the 
bathroom ceiling to get worse, eventually falling down.
Ive looked at the policy to see whether it covers water ingress. It says:
Peril
Freezing water in fixed water or fixed heating systems, water escaping from washing 
machines, dishwashers, fixed water or fixe heating systems or Oil escaping from a 
fixed heating system.
The policy doesnt cover:
a) Loss or damage to the appliance or system itself from which the water escapes 
except where the damage is caused by freezing. 
Based on the policy wording, Im satisfied that the escape of water is an insured peril, but the 
cover is for the damage caused by the escape of water, not the source of the leak. That 
means HDI was responsible for the repairs to Ts bathroom, but not for fixing the leak itself.
Further, the policy says:
We will pay the costs and expenses you pay with our written permission to find the 
source of any damage caused to the building by escape of water from fixed water or 
heating system and then make good.
This tells me that the policy doesnt provide for HDI tracing the source of the leak, though it 
does cover the cost of making good any damaged caused.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that HDI was not responsible for tracing the source of 
the leak.
For around four months, nothing more was done about the claim, and during that time the 
bathroom ceiling came down. When Mr E complained to HDI, it arranged for a leak detection 
report. The results confirmed what all parties already thought, which was that the leak 
originated from the bathroom in the flat upstairs. Therefore, until the owner repaired the 
bathroom, HDI wouldnt settle Ts claim.
Having considered that, I find it a reasonable response. There would be little point in HDI 
repairing Ts bathroom until the leak itself was fixed. Otherwise the water would continue to 
damage Ts property, incurring more and more repair costs.
So, overall, the evidence persuades me that HDI didnt do anything wrong here. Im satisfied 
that HDI responded to Ts claim reasonably and in line with the policy, and I wont be asking 
it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman