DRN-4079750
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, NatWest is 
expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in 
dispute that Mr W was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the 
payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for them.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment. 
Ive considered whether NatWest ought to have realised Mr W was at risk from fraud. 
If NatWest failed to intervene appropriately when it should have done, and that failure 
led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable. 
The disputed payments were between £315 and £5,000. Having reviewed Mr Ws 
statements in the year leading up to the scam, I dont think these amounts looked 
particularly unusual  there are several payments in the thousands. And I dont 
consider that the frequency of the disputed payments looked particularly suspicious 
either  they happened over around a month and none took place on the same day. 
Ive noted Mr Ws representatives point that NatWest ought to have been concerned 
by the destination of these payments. But it seems they went to a genuine 
cryptocurrency platform to an account in Mr Ws name before they were moved to the 
scammers wallet. While I appreciate there are cryptocurrency scams, there are also 
lots of people who use these platforms legitimately. And ultimately, its Mr Ws choice 
whether he invests his money and what he invests it in  thats not something Id 
expect NatWest to interfere with. It follows that I dont think the destination of these 
payments was, by itself, unusual or suspicious enough to suggest Mr W was at risk 
of fraud.
Taking this all into account, I consider it reasonable NatWest didnt detect a fraud risk 
in the circumstances  and simply processed the payments in line with Mr Ws 
instructions.
As well as considering whether NatWest ought to have prevented Mr Ws loss, Ive
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. But as the money went 
to an account in his name, I dont think it wouldve been useful for NatWest to try to 
get money back from its own customer. Moreover, the money was subsequently 
moved on to the scammers wallet, so I dont think there wouldve been anything to 
recover. 
I appreciate this will be hugely disappointing for Mr W, who was a victim of a cruel 
and convincing scam. But given the circumstances of this case, there isnt a general 
expectation for NatWest to reimburse him as a victim of a scam. So my consideration 
is focused on whether NatWest is at fault for failing to stop or recover his losses. And 
for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded it is here. That means I cant fairly 
hold it liable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman