DRN-2293070
The complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mr Cs credit card account when he applied for the card by post. Capital Ones records show 
that the PPI policy was cancelled in 2002, around six months after Mr C opened the account.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs signed application for the credit card. It includes equally 
prominent options to take or decline PPI. Mr C ticked the Yes box to indicate that he 
wished to take the cover.
Im satisfied that it was clear from the way PPI was presented on the application form 
that it was optional. And I think Mr C decided to take it, knowing that he had a choice  
although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Mr C applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So its unlikely that he had any direct 
contact with Capital Ones staff about the application, and I think its unlikely that Capital 
One recommended the PPI to Mr C personally. This means that it didnt have a 
responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr C. It was for Mr C to decide 
whether he wanted to take the cover, knowing what alternative means hed have had of 
making his monthly credit card repayments if hed been unable to work. But Capital One 
did have a responsibility to give Mr C enough information to enable him to decide for 
himself whether the PPI was right for him.
Mr Cs told us hed have been entitled to less than three months pay from his employer 
at the time if hed been off sick. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident 
or sickness, it would have helped with his monthly credit card repayments for up to 
12 months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer than Mr Cs told us hed have 
been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if hed made a 
successful unemployment claim on the policy. Whats more, the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mr C received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day living costs. And he wouldnt have needed to use his 
limited savings to make his monthly credit card repayments.
I acknowledge that Mr Cs told us that his wife was working at the time, and his family 
could have helped out financially if need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant 
be sure that Mr Cs wife or other family members would have been in a position to help if 
the need had arisen.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mr C.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
as if he wanted this type of cover at the time, even if hes understandably forgotten that 
now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, 
Mr C was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions).
The premiums for the PPI would have been shown on Mr Cs monthly credit card 
statements. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any 
time without further charge if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer 
wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr C would have made a different 
decision about taking the PPI even if hed been given better information about the policy.
Ive taken account of all Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about having been led 
to believe that taking the PPI would help him get the credit card. But as Ive commented 
above, I think its unlikely that Mr C had any direct contact with Capital Ones staff when he 
completed the application. And theres nothing on the form to suggest that taking the PPI 
would increase the chance of the application being approved. 
Mr Cs also mentioned that he wasnt told there was a cancellation period for the PPI. But 
as Ive commented above, he could have cancelled the policy at any time with no further 
cost. And if hed wanted to cancel the policy but had been unsure about how to go about it, 
I think its likely hed have contacted Capital One to ask. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
he did so. So these points dont change my conclusion. I dont find that the policy was mis-
sold.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman