DRN-3584013
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr A says he hasnt been involved in any fraudulent activity and that the marker hasnt been 
added fairly.
Monzo Bank said it received a report that a payment made into Mr As account on 20 
February 2021 had been obtained fraudulently. So, it closed his account and added the 
marker. It reviewed its decision when Mr A complained but said that it hadnt made a 
mistake.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the payment 
involved of £250 had been withdrawn the same day. And when Mr A had contacted Monzo 
Bank on 18 March 2021 he said of the marker that my bank told me it was because of 250 
pounds being sent to my account. This happened after my friend asked if he could send 
money to my account to buy something. Me not knowing that it was actually for a scam. But 
Mr A had told this service that the money was sent to him by a person who was buying 
shoes from him. And that his friend posted the item when the money had been received. 
Although he had sent a screenshot of what he said was an online conversation with the 
buyer confirming he had received the shoes this wasnt dated or verifiable. And the 
certificate of posting hed provided didnt confirm delivery.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he wanted to pursue this in any way that he could. He is due to go 
to university and had been wrongly accused. And this marker was having a serious impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that it must first be able to show that fraudulent funds have 
entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, it  will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
I consider relevant factors in deciding here whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what 
happened include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt 
legitimate, whether he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he 
has provided generic or inconsistent explanations.
I note that Mr A has said to our investigator that he did believe that this was a payment from 
a friend first. But then that after receiving a subject access request from CIFAS showing the 
time and date of the payment he had seen it was from a buyer for shoes hed sold. He said 
that he contacted Monzo Bank about the mix up but was told it couldnt open the case again. 
The item wasnt sent with tracking as this was the way the buyer requested, but he says that 
the certificate of posting shows it was sent.
I can see that the email that our investigator referred to from Mr A to Monzo Bank dated 18 
March 2021 came after Mr A said he had seen a subject access request from CIFAS. And 
looking at Mr As bank statement there were no other payments for a similar amount. In 
addition, his version of events is that he had sold the item to a buyer for that amount and had 
received the money and sent it on from his account straightaway. So, there is an 
inconsistency here. And thats especially because Mr A says he had the online messages 
with the buyer and knew about the dispute.
Mr A says that he is the victim here. Because he sent the shoes the next day on 21 February 
2021 and the buyer falsely claimed he didnt receive them. The certificate of posting hes 
provided doesnt confirm what was sent and this was using a post office some distance from 
his home address. The messages he provides arent dated and werent originally provided. 
The information Monzo Bank received supports its conclusion that the person sending the 
money was the victim of a purchase scam. 
There are discrepancies between what the person sending the money and Mr A say. On any 
view Mr A cant show the item was delivered to the buyers address. And so that he is fairly 
due this money. It may be that he allowed his account to be used by his friend as he first 
said. Or that he expected that friend to send the item. I dont find his testimony to be reliable 
given the inconsistencies. And Im satisfied that this money was obtained fraudulently, and 
that Mr A was deliberately complicit in what happened.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Monzo Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Monzo Bank needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.I appreciate what Mr A says about the impact of the marker for him but Im afraid I dont have 
a reasonable basis to require Monzo Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman