DRN-3212518
The complaint
X complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited stopped offering drawdown and annuity 
products to its non UK customers and didnt inform him. He also complains that Standard 
Life Assurance Limited has provided him with misleading correspondence.
What happened
X has a Personal Pension Scheme policy with Standard Life. He says he started the policy in 
1989. He moved away from the UK in 2010. He informed Standard Life at the time and it 
updated his address on its systems. Since that time he has continued to receive 
correspondence, including annual pension statements.  
X phoned Standard Life in January 2021 to make enquiries about his options as he was 
approaching his retirement date. He was told that, because he was not resident in the UK, 
the option to purchase a drawdown product was no longer available to him. 
Standard Life said it had stopped making drawdown products available to non UK residents 
in 2018. It subsequently told X in April 2021 that from January 2021 its annuity products 
were also not available to non UK residents. This meant he could encash his policy and pay 
the relevant tax, leave it invested with Standard Life or transfer it to another provider. He 
could not purchase an annuity or open a drawdown product with Standard Life. 
X complained to Standard Life. He said it had changed the goalposts without informing him 
and it had sent him misleading information in his pension statements which still stated that 
he could purchase an annuity or take a drawdown product with Standard Life.
Standard Life investigated his complaint. It said it had made business decisions to stop 
offering drawdown (in 2018) and annuity (2021) products to customers who did not live in the 
UK. It said its products were designed for UK residents and complied with UK laws and 
regulations. It said it had not proactively contacted customers to inform them about this 
change. It had now informed X about the options that were available to him.
X wasnt satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. He said that Standard Life had explained that its 
products were designed for UK customers and didnt meet the requirements and laws of non 
UK countries. It also didnt hold the necessary permissions to sell drawdown and annuity 
products in areas outside of the UK. He said he could understand the reasons Standard Life 
had given for its decision.
Our investigator then looked at whether X had been treated differently or unfairly as a result 
of Standard Lifes decision. He noted that Standard Life hadnt proactively informed X about 
the change and he looked at the reasons Standard Life had given for its approach. It said it 
gave customers up to date information when they contacted it to take their benefits. It could 
then provide up to date and personalised information. Our investigator thought this was 
reasonable. He didnt think Standard Life needed to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint.
X didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which Standard Life says apply to Xs policy. The 
terms and conditions set out the benefits available to X. These include benefits on death 
before the vesting date (August 2021) and benefits on the vesting date. At the vesting date 
Standard Life would either apply the sum available under the policy to purchase an annuity 
with it or alternatively it could pay the sum available under the policy to another insurance 
company to purchase an annuity with it.
The policy also included the option for X to transfer the cash equivalent of the benefits to 
another scheme.
The policy terms and conditions make no mention of the option to enter into a drawdown 
product with Standard Life.
There is a provision in the policy which provides that if at any time it becomes impossible or 
impracticable to carry out any of the policy provisions Standard Life could make such 
alterations in the policy provisions as it considered appropriate.
In 2021 when X contacted Standard Life it told him that it no longer offered annuities to its 
non UK customers. So, to that extent it had altered the policy conditions. It has explained the 
reasons for that decision. It says that its products are designed for its UK customers and 
comply with UK law and regulation. It doesnt have permissions to operate in countries 
outside the UK and it cannot be certain that its products would comply with the laws and 
regulations in countries outside the UK. 
I think the reasons it has set out explain why it thinks it has become impossible or 
impractical to continue to offer X the option to purchase an annuity with it. 
Having considered the explanation provided by Standard Life, I can understand why it has 
determined that it can no longer offer its products to persons resident outside of the UK. Im 
satisfied that the reasons it has given are fair and reasonable given that legislation and 
regulations are constantly changing and different rules and regulations apply in non UK 
countries. Im also satisfied that the changes Standard Life made applied to all non UK 
residents and X has been treated in the same way as other non UK residents.
Communication of the change to X
Standard Life did not contact X to make him aware of the changes it had made. He doesnt 
think that was fair. And, hes pointed out that even after the changes, Standard Life has 
continued to write to him in terms which indicate that he can still open a drawdown or an 
annuity product with it.
Ive thought firstly about whether Standard Life was acting fairly and reasonably when it 
didnt inform its non UK customers about the changes it made in 2018 and 2021. When there 
is a change made to the terms and conditions for a product which a customer holds, wed 
expect the firm to make its customers aware of that change. 
As mentioned above, Xs policy terms did not include an option to take out a drawdown 
product  - so there was no change to his terms and conditions when Standard Life stopped offering that product to non UK customers in 2018. If he wanted to open a drawdown product 
then he wouldve been subject to the terms and conditions that applied when he opted to do 
that. Standard Life wasnt obliged to tell customers who hadnt applied for a drawdown 
product that it was changing its eligibility criteria.
But, there was a change to the terms and conditions for Xs policy in 2021 when Standard 
Life stopped offering its non UK customers the option to purchase an annuity with Standard 
Life at the vesting date.
Although Standard Life didnt proactively contact X to inform him about this change, it did tell 
him when he contacted it in April 2021  which was four months prior to the vesting date. So, 
although he wasnt told about this change when he phoned Standard Life in January 2021, 
Im satisfied he was told about the change in April 2021 which wouldve given him sufficient 
time to make alternative plans before the vesting date. 
Ive also thought about whether Standard Life should have told X before the change took 
effect and whether that might have changed his position. But I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to expect businesses to pre-announce commercial decisions in this way.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded Standard Life acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it didnt tell X before the changes took effect.
Other communications were misleading
X says that, even after it made these changes, Standard Life has continued to send him 
correspondence which tells him that he can purchase an annuity or a drawdown product with 
it. He says this is misleading.
Ive looked at some of the correspondence X has been sent since January 2021.
In March 2021, which was about six months before the vesting date under his policy, 
Standard Life sent X a letter to tell him that he was approaching his retirement age. The 
letter set out the value of his pension pot. There was then a page in the letter setting out 
Important things to think about and this included a list of items. The second item on the list 
was entitled Shop around. It said that whether X was thinking about a flexible income or an 
annuity he should shop around for the best deal. This section also included the following 
wording:
Please be aware that not all options are available if you are a resident outside of the UK.
Ive also looked at the annual statement sent to X in September 2021. Whilst this statement 
includes generic wording about options available, it also includes the same wording as Ive 
referred to above. 
The section Ive referred to is headed Important things to think about, which I think 
wouldve drawn to Xs attention the fact that it was important to note that although drawdown 
and annuity options were mentioned in the correspondence  they may not be available to X 
because he resided outside of the UK.
So, having looked at the above mentioned correspondence, Im not persuaded, on balance 
that Standard Life has provided misleading information to X.
Summary
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied, on balance, that Standard Life has acted 
fairly and reasonably. It has informed X of the options available to him at the vesting date. 
These include the right to leave his policy invested, encash his policy and pay the relevant tax or transfer his policy to another provider. If he wants to avail of different options, such as 
the purchase of a drawdown or annuity product, he will need to seek advice about how to 
proceed. I dont require Standard Life to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Standard Life Assurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman