DRN-1197666
 
The complaint
A, a limited company, has complained Santander UK plc didn't cancel one of their 
company cards when requested.
What happened
Mr H, a director of A, contacted Santander in March 2019 to query the latest transactions on 
a company debit card. This card had been given to one of A's employees. Santander 
confirmed the most recent transactions. The employee left A's employment in March 2019.
Another employee of A then called Santander in early April to find out how to cancel a card 
on the account. This call resulted in Santander firstly closing down Mr H's card. They then 
corrected this error. They also confirmed transactions on the other card. This in fact included 
a number of cash machine withdrawals which A had never permitted their employee to 
make. Mr H was unhappy with what had happened. He felt Santander's actions had led A to 
allow their employee to leave employment without repaying what was owed. This was apart 
from the inconvenience of the card being closed in error.
Santander apologised for their mistake and paid A  £200 in compensation. Mr H remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included evidence to show Mr H had sent 
Santander a letter in February to cancel the card in dispute. Our investigator wasn't 
convinced this was the case. He also listened to the two telephone calls on 20 March and 4 
April. Overall he didn't believe Santander had done anything wrong. Whilst they'd made a 
mistake in closing the wrong card, they had sorted this out and paid compensation. Mr H 
hadn't provided any evidence to support his argument this had caused A additional expense.
Mr H, on A's behalf, asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
outcome as our investigator.  I'll explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didn't make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldn't ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Santander and Mr H have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, including detail of the phone conversations and how 
the transactions were made, were covered in our investigators view of 9 November 2019. I 
dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects 
which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr H and Santander Ive read the file 
thoroughly.
The following summarises what Ive considered:
There were a series of cash machine withdrawals undertaken from 22 February to 12 
March 2019. There's no real dispute these were carried out by an employee of A.  
That employee stopped being an employee on 20 March 2019.
At the time of the withdrawals, this employee was authorised by A to be a 
cardholder. In accordance with the regulations these transactions were therefore 
authorised.
Mr H has given us evidence that A wrote to Santander on 6 February cancelling this 
card. I find this odd as this employee didn't then leave employment until later in 
March. I also note the Post Office information confirming this letter was sent was 
unstamped. According to the Post Office's own rules this means it's not valid. I have, 
however, considered that this is just an error on the Post Office's part.
The call on 4 April definitely notified Santander A wanted to cancel the ex-employee's 
card. The call on 20 March didn't do this.
I agree Santander incorrectly didn't mention the cash withdrawals in the phone call 
on 20 March. They should have. As our investigator stated this wouldn't have 
stopped the transactions as the last one had been on 12 March.
I note Mr H has given us a copy of a letter from A's ex-employee. His argument is 
that if they'd been told what had happened on 20 March, they'd have had an 
opportunity to get their employee to repay them. That's possible but I wonder if this 
would have happened. It seems the money was stolen for gambling 
purposes. There's no indication the money was available to be repaid.
Santander agree they made a mistaken by cancelling Mr H's card. That definitely 
caused A some business inconvenience. Santander paid £200 in compensation. I've 
not seen any further evidence about the additional costs A had so believe this is fair 
and reasonable.
 
Mr H wrote to appeal our investigator's decision. I've considered the comments in his letter of 
14 October 2019. He asked why Santander didn't notice such unusual activity as the cash 
machine withdrawals were out of character for A. The key however was that the genuine 
card and PIN were used, so I wouldn't have expected Santander to have picked this up.
I've considered all the issues in this complaint. But overall I don't believe it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to do anything further.
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons I've given, my final decision is not to uphold A's complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman