DRN-3737374
The complaint
Mrs T complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco), 
irresponsibly increased the credit limit on her credit card account such that she couldnt 
afford to repay it.
What happened
Mrs T took out a credit card with Tesco in July 2013, with an initial credit limit of £2,300.00. 
In February 2015 the credit limit increased to £7,300.00. In April 2016 it went up to 
£9,000.00 and in April 2017 to £10,300.00. Mrs T is complaining about the increases in 2016 
and 2017. 
Mrs T told us that she believes this was irresponsible lending and has led her to now have a 
considerable amount of debt. She said her annual salary was in the region of £19,000 for the 
two years when the increases were applied, and she already had a large amount of other 
debt on credit cards, catalogues and car finance. Mrs T thought that Tesco should refund the 
fees and interest paid. 
Tesco said that it had carried out appropriate affordability checks, and told Mrs T that it did 
not uphold her complaint. 
Mrs T then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and thought it 
should be upheld. Tesco didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint about the credit card limit increases. Ill explain 
why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Tesco completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs T would be able to make the repayments 
on the credit card account in a sustainable way.
Tesco provided a list of the checks it completed when granting the increases in Mrs Ts 
credit limit. In summary, it said that based on credit reference information and the conduct of 
Mrs Ts account, it was able to determine that she had no unsettled County Court 
Judgments, bankruptcies, defaults, or internal arrears., and that she never utilised more than 
51% of the credit available to her. There were no missed payments, defaults or payment 
plans with the credit agencies which would show financial difficulty. Tesco used a consumer 
indebtedness measure from credit reference information, and this was low, and therefore 
didnt suggest Mrs T was over-indebted. Tesco accepted that the debt-to-income ratio was 
high but said it didnt reach the point at which it would trigger further checks, or cause the 
credit limit increases to be declined. Tesco further said it considered Mrs Ts disposable 
income, taking into account rent and living expenses which include food and all bills, as well 
as existing credit commitments. 
On that basis, Tesco said that it considered that both credit limit increases were affordable 
for Mrs T. 
However Im not satisfied that Tesco carried out sufficient checks before granting the credit 
limit increases. 
We asked Mrs T for copies of bank statements around the relevant times, and she sent in 
copies of statements for her sole account and joint account with her partner. She also sent in 
a copy of her credit record. I can see that both bank accounts were regularly in overdraft, 
albeit within the set limits. 
Tescos affordability assessments for March 2016 and March 2017 showed Mrs T as having 
a net monthly salary of £1,200  consistent with the bank statements which show £1,200 to 
£1,300, and the annual salary (before tax) of about £19,000 that Mrs T mentioned. Mrs Ts 
total debt is listed as £18,530 in March 2016 and £18,937 in March 2017, and the monthly 
repayments as £463 and £473 respectively. These latter figures appear consistent with 
whats on Mrs Ts credit history. Housing and living expenses are shown as £360 each for 
both 2016 and 2017. Im not sure of every item that would be included under these 
headings, but looking at the bank statements these figures dont seem to be out of line. The 
assessment then shows Mrs T as having a disposable income of £17 per month at March 
2016 and £7 at March 2017. 
I accept that Mrs T may have been maintaining payments on her credit commitments, but 
the level of unsecured debt  higher than Mrs Ts net salary  suggests to me that she was 
already overcommitted. The minimal level of disposable income identified in the affordability 
assessment suggests that Mrs T had little or no capacity to deal with unexpected expenses 
or a change in circumstances.
Tesco argued that Mrs Ts bank statements didnt seem to be giving a full picture of her 
finances  it referred to entries relating to another bank account, and it said it wasnt clear 
where her priority debts were being paid. Ive thought about what Tesco has said  but on 
reviewing the statements again I can see that her priority commitments were being paid from 
her joint account. Having looked at the information again Im satisfied that I have enough 
information on which to base my conclusions. 
Taking all this into account, I wouldve expected Tesco to carry out more detailed income 
and expenditure checks before increasing Mrs Ts credit limit in 2016 and 2017. Had it done 
so, I think its likely that such checks wouldve demonstrated that Mrs T would have been 
unable to manage the repayments sustainably. I say this because, as I described above, the 
checks it did carry out showed a minimal amount of disposable income, leaving Mrs T with 
little or no capacity to deal with even a small change in circumstances, and a high level of 
debt relative to her income. So I think Mrs T has lost out as a result, and therefore I have 
decided to uphold her complaint. Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco should have increased Mrs Ts credit limit above £7,300, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mrs T has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think she 
should pay this back. Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £7,300. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs T along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information recorded after April 2016 
regarding this account from Mrs Ts credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £7,300, Tesco should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs T for the remaining amount. Once Mrs T 
has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after April 2016 
in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs T 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the 
refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC should compensate Mrs T as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman