DRN-4109668
The complaint
Miss B complains Covea Insurance Plc settled her home insurance claim unfairly. 
What happened
Miss Bs home suffered an escape of water. This damaged flooring in a bathroom. Covea 
agreed to cover the cost of replacing that area of flooring. It offered a 50% contribution 
towards the cost of the replacing matching continuous flooring in her adjacent hall and 
lounge.  Miss B wasnt happy with this. Her contractor explained all the flooring in each room 
would need replacing for the flooring to be returned to its original condition. So Miss B wants 
Covea to cover the full cost of replacing all the flooring. 
Our investigator felt Coveas 50% contribution for the undamaged flooring was fair. So she 
didn't recommend it do anything differently. Miss B didnt accept that outcome, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs policy terms say Covea wont cover the cost of replacing any undamaged items 
forming part of a set if damage occurs within a clearly identifiable area.  
I accept the are no floor dividers between the rooms. But the bathroom is a clearly 
identifiable area  being a separate room with a door to the other areas. So by offering a 
contribution to the undamaged flooring in the other areas, Coveas gone beyond the policys 
requirements.
Overall Coveas 50% contribution towards the undamaged rooms is fair. This is a reasonable 
contribution towards full replacement should Miss B choose that option. Alternatively, if she 
chooses to replace only the damaged area and perhaps fit a divider, it provides some 
compensation for the loss of match. So Im not going to ask Covea to pay anything more or 
do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman