DRN-2944909
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the liability decision reached by Ageas Insurance Limited following a 
claim against her motor insurance. 
What happened
In summary, Mrs B was involved in an incident with another driver in 2018. She said she was 
driving on a roundabout when the other driver changed lanes and caused the incident to 
occur. Mrs B didnt make a claim and the incident was recorded as notification only. 
In 2020, Ageas received notification from the other drivers insurer that a claim had been 
made and Mrs B was at fault for the incident. So, Ageas contacted Mrs B in November 2020 
to discuss the circumstances of the incident. Mrs B said shed already provided details of the 
incident previously to her broker. So, Ageas contacted Mrs Bs broker who said they had 
limited information available about the incident. 
Ageas said there were no witnesses to the incident, CCTV or photos of the damage 
sustained to Mrs Bs vehicle which she no longer had access to. They also said there was 
conflicting information regarding where the other driver was positioned, and the damage 
sustained to both vehicles. Ageas said they were unable to defend the claim without this 
information as the other driver had provided very clear details about the incident and had 
said they regularly used the roundabout where the incident took place. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with this. She said she wasnt at fault for the incident and the other 
driver was. She didnt accept liability for the incident and was prepared to attend court. 
Though, she said she would accept 50/50 liability to bring matters to a close. 
Ageas instructed solicitors to review the information provided by both Mrs B and the other 
drivers insurer. The solicitors didnt think Ageas had reasonable prospects of success of 
defending the claim in court. So, Ageas settled the claim with the other drivers insurer on a 
without prejudice basis and held Mrs B at fault. 
Mrs B wasnt happy about this and raised a complaint. As Ageas maintained their position, 
she approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
Ageas were entitled to settle the claim under the policy and had relied on a legal opinion in 
order to do so which was fair. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the legal opinion was based on assumptions rather than the 
correct facts she presented. She felt shed provided Ageas with clear information to show the 
other driver was at fault. As she remained unhappy, she asked for an ombudsman to decide 
so its now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain we dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. I accept Mrs 
B said she would be prepared to attend court. But we can only consider whether Ageas has 
reached their decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. And Mrs Bs policy 
says Ageas can take over the defence and settlement of a claim in her name. This is a 
common term Ive seen in most, if not all motor insurance policies. 
This might mean Ageas makes a decision Mrs B doesnt agree with, but the policy allows 
them to do this as long as they can demonstrate theyve applied it fairly. The evidence 
Ageas will rely on when making a decision on Mrs Bs behalf will be the strength of the 
evidence to prove the other driver was at fault, the prospects of success in court and the 
potential costs and risks involved in doing so. Ill address this point later in my decision. 
Mrs B feels strongly about her view that the other driver was at fault. She alleged they 
changed lanes on a roundabout as they were in the wrong lane, and at speed changed lanes 
and caused the incident. Whereas, the other driver alleged Mrs B was in the wrong lane and 
caused the incident to occur. 
I accept Mrs Bs frustration given the time thats passed between the incident occurring in 
2018, to Ageas notifying her of the claim. But once the other drivers insurer disputed liability, 
I think it was reasonable at this stage for Ageas to contact Mrs B to obtain further information 
and consider what the other drivers insurer had said. Its unfortunate here there were no 
witnesses, no CCTV and Mrs B didnt have any photos the damage sustained to her vehicle 
 which I understand is now no longer available. 
Mrs B said shed previously given the information Ageas asked for to her broker. Ageas 
contacted Mrs Bs broker, who said they held limited information  so again I think Ageas 
acted fairly when requesting Mrs B to provide more information given the other drivers 
insurer had disputed liability. 
Ageas said the information presented was conflicting and Mrs B didnt provide clear 
information about the incident for them to respond to the other drivers insurer to defend the 
claim. Mrs B disputed this. She said she had provided clear information and I also appreciate 
given the time thatd passed, it would have been difficult to recollect every detail. 
Returning to the above point regarding Mrs Bs willingness to attend court. Ageas instructed 
solicitors to review all the information provided by both Mrs B and the other drivers insurer. 
Following this, the solicitor provided a legal opinion which said the prospects of success of 
defending the claim in court were lower than 50%. Ageas would have also taken a view of 
the potential costs involved in taking the case to court which I think is fair. 
I appreciate Mrs B doesnt agree with this and feels the legal opinion provided by the 
solicitors was based on assumptions rather than correct facts she presented. She also said 
the drawing she presented  which was a key part of her evidence  was dismissed. But the 
important thing to note here is Ageas are entitled to rely on opinions from legal experts 
regarding the prospects of success in court. And I havent been persuaded based on the 
information Ive seen that the legal opinion failed to take all the information presented by 
both Mrs B and the other drivers insurer into account. 
Overall, I find Ageas acted fairly by gathering information from both Mrs B and the other 
drivers insurer. As above, they also instructed solicitors for a legal opinion and relied on this 
to settle the claim against Mrs B with the other drivers insurer. So, Im satisfied Ageas acted 
fairly and applied the terms of the policy in a reasonable way. I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, as Ive seen how passionately 
shes argued her view that the incident wasnt her fault. But I must explain my decision 
doesnt conclude that I consider her testimony to be untrue or incorrect. Rather, I think 
Ageas acted fairly by relying on the information presented to them by all parties, including 
the legal opinion about the prospects of success in court. 
My decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve Mrs Bs dispute with Ageas  can do for 
her.
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman