DRN-4080288
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc deducted charges from an international payment 
without explaining the process.
What happened
Mr S says that he transferred $300 to a beneficiary in the USA in October 2022. He says he 
paid $7 in charges, but said the recipient only received $275. Mr S says HSBC did not make 
it clear that there may be additional charges.
HSBC said it can make a customer aware of charges that may be applied, but it wont know 
how much they will be as they are applied by the intermediary bank. It says Mr S chose to 
have the charges debited from the payment, but, as a gesture of goodwill, it credited Mr S 
with £25.
Mr S did not accept this offer as he said he was inconvenienced and still had to send the $25 
to the recipient.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found the banking 
terms and conditions referenced charges from other banks involved in international 
transactions and that Mr Ss transfer form showed he had chosen for those charges to be 
deducted from the payment.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that HSBC did not tell him about any charges other 
than the $7 and that there was no need for it to have used a subsidiary bank. He says he 
was never given the relevant terms and conditions and the only fees mentioned by HSBC 
were the $7 which hed paid.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr S and to HSBC on 24 March 2023. Ive summarised my 
findings below:
I was not satisfied that Mr S was made aware that further charges would be deducted 
from his payment;
Mr S said he was given a computer-generated form and was asked to sign it. He said 
no options were presented to him and his understanding was that hed agreed to pay 
all the fees as the form said I want to pay the HSBC Bank UK fees;
I found it more likely than not that if the three available options had been fully 
explained to Mr S, he would have chosen to pay all the fees, as this is what he 
believed hed signed up to;
In summary, my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ss complaint and whilst the £25 
he had already been paid covered the shortfall in the funds received, I also considered 
HSBC should pay Mr S a further £50 for his time, stress and embarrassment.
Both Mr S and HSBC responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision and neither provided any additional 
information, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr S a further 
£50 for the above reasons.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman