DRN-4164236
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt accurately record when shed told them of 
health issues she suffers with and feels that Lloyds didnt take her health issues into account 
when administering her loan as a result.
What happened
Miss I had a personal loan with Lloyds. In February 2020, Miss I fell into financial difficulty 
having been made redundant and having to start a new job shortly before the emergence of 
the Covid-19 global pandemic, which unfortunately exacerbated her situation.
Miss I contacted Lloyds about the difficulties she was having and Lloyds provided financial 
support to her. Miss I continued to struggle to meet her loan repayments throughout 2020 
and into 2021, and she continued to update Lloyds about her situation, including notifying 
them of the health issue she suffers with. 
However, in September 2021, Lloyds felt theyd exhausted the financial assistance they 
could provide to Miss I. And because the loan was in a position of prolonged arrears, they 
moved to default the account. Miss I wasnt happy about this and felt that Lloyds hadnt 
taken fair account of the health problems shed told them about. So, she raised a complaint. 
Lloyds responded to Miss I and explained that they had record of her informing them about 
her health issues in September 2020 but confirmed that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly 
in how theyd administered her loan account. Miss I wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, 
especially as shed told them about her health issue several months earlier than Lloyds were 
claiming. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Lloyds own records did 
confirm that Miss I had told them about her health issues in June 2020. But because Lloyds 
were already providing financial assistance to Miss I at that time, they didnt feel Miss I had 
received any less support from Lloyds than she reasonably should have done. Miss I 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Miss I first contacted Lloyds about her financial position in February 2020, having started a 
new job following being made redundant, and explained that the change in her employment 
circumstances meant she was struggling to meet the payments due on her loan.
Notably, when Miss I first contacted Lloyds about her financial position, Lloyds notes make 
no reference to Miss I telling them about her health issues. Instead, Lloyds notes explain 
that Miss I was now working a new job and anticipated being able to recover the position of 
her loan account and resume making the contractual payments towards it shortly thereafter.
Unfortunately, the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic happened not long after Miss I first 
contacted Lloyds and while she was still trying to recover the position of her account 
following her change of employment. And the consequences of Covid-19 impacted Miss Is 
new employer and so further adversely affected Miss Is financial position. 
Miss I contacted Lloyds about this on several occasions throughout 2020 and into 2021. And 
Lloyds contact notes first record Miss I informing them of her health issues  which meant 
she was vulnerable to Covid-19 and so had to shield at home  as being a contributing factor 
to her financial difficulties in June 2020.
Miss I feels that Lloyds didnt provide her the financial support they should have done 
because they didnt take account of the health issues she suffers with, which she told them 
about and which she feels they didnt take sufficient account of.
I can appreciate why Miss I would feel this way, especially as Lloyds response to her 
complaint failed to acknowledge that she had told them about her health issues in June 2020 
and wrongly said that shed first informed them about her health issue several months later, 
in September 2020.
A bank such as Lloyds is only obliged to provide a certain level of financial support to a loan 
account holder who struggles, for whatever reason, to meet their repayment obligations. And 
because Lloyds were already providing that level of support to Miss I in response to the 
financial difficulties shed made them aware of beginning in February 2020, the fact that she 
later informed Lloyds of her health issues made no tangible difference to the support that 
Lloyds could offer  because they were already providing appropriate support to her. 
Its also evident that Lloyds did take note of Miss Is health issues in June 2020, because its 
recorded in their contact notes at that time. And while it's correct that when Lloyds 
responded to Miss Is complaint the staff member who handled that complaint didnt correctly 
recognise when Miss I had told them about her health issues  presumably because they 
made an error when checking the historical notes. But this was an error on the part of the 
complaint handler only and is one which Im satisfied hasnt impacted the support that Miss I 
has received from Lloyds since her financial difficulties began, as explained above.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds did act unfairly towards Miss I regarding how 
they administered her loan account and the level of financial support they provided to her. 
And while I can appreciate why Miss I is unhappy with how Lloyds responded to her 
complaint, including when Lloyds said shed first notified them of her health issues, this isnt 
an aspect of her complaint that Im able to consider. This is because the rules by which this 
service must abide  which can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  include that this service is only able to 
consider complaints about specified activities, of which complaint handling isnt one. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss I was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action here. 
Importantly, as explained, Im satisfied that Miss I hasnt received a lower standard or amount of financial support from Lloyds that she was reasonably entitled to here. I hope that 
Miss I finds some reassurance from knowing that someone independent and impartial has 
looked into this matter for her and found this to be the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman