DRN-2804068
The complaint
Mr Y complains that four personal loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), were unaffordable
What happened
Mr Y was given four loans by L2G from May 2019 to August 2019. The loans have been 
repaid.  A summary of Mr Ys borrowing history is as follows:-
Loan 
numberDate of loan Date of loan 
repaymentLoan 
amountNumber of 
monthly 
repaymentsMonthly 
repayment 
amounts
1. 4/5/2019 16/5/2019 £650 18 £148.56
2. 25/5/2019 25/6/2019 £750 18 £171.42
3. 4/7/2019 30/7/2019 £650 18 £148.56
4. 1/8/2019 9/9/2019 £500 18 £114.28
Mr Y said that L2G had lent him money irresponsibly. A simple credit check would have 
shown that he had a history of sustained borrowing and would have absolutely no means of 
paying back such incredibly high interest loans. This was ignored as was the fact that he 
kept cancelling loans with them within 14 days and then took out a new loan. He ended up 
having to borrow other high interest loans and from family in order to be able to cancel L2Gs 
loans. 
In its final response letter, L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability 
assessment prior to approving the loans. It considered Mr Ys declared income which it 
verified via an income verification tool and it also reviewed Mr Ys credit file. L2G also 
considered Mr Ys declared expenditure and added an additional amount for expenses such 
as rent/mortgage and other household expenditure as well as credit commitments. It noted 
that Mr Y had said that he paid nothing for credit commitments. L2G discounted Mr Ys 
income by a buffer of 5% to account for any fluctuations in his monthly expenditure. After 
doing this, L2G said that Mr Y was left with sufficient funds to deem the loans to be 
affordable. L2G said it took into consideration all the available information whilst calculating 
the affordability of the loans taken out with it, and it was determined that Mr Y had enough 
disposable income to afford his contractual instalments.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Ys complaint about Loans 3 and 4 should be upheld. 
He said that L2Gs checks for Loans 1 and 2 were proportionate based on the term and the 
cost of these loans. He didnt think there was anything in the information L2G gathered 
which meant it shouldnt have lent Loans 1 and 2 to Mr Y. But the adjudicator said that the 
results of the checks for Loan 3 showed that Mr Ys financial situation had deteriorated 
significantly since Loan 1. Mr Ys total overall debt had increased by around £6,000 in 
around a month and hed opened three new overdraft accounts and two accounts were at 
their maximum limit. The adjudicator said that this suggested that Mr Y was experiencing 
problems managing money. The adjudicator said that Mr Y took out Loan 4 only two days 
after repaying Loan 3, which meant he had requested his fourth loan with L2G in three 
months. He said that this should again have suggested that Mr Y was experiencing problems 
managing money and a reliance on unsecured credit.
L2G accepted the adjudicators view. It said that the amount to be paid to settle Loans 3   
and 4 totalled £218.47 including statutory interest. The amount of interest to be refunded on 
Loan 3 was £95.68, and £104.71 was to be refunded on Loan 4. Mr Y hadnt incurred any 
charges.
Mr Y disagreed. He said that the figures quoted by L2G didnt match what hed actually paid. 
The adjudicator provided a breakdown to Mr Y of L2Gs offer to show that the interest to be 
refunded by L2G was correct. But Mr Y wanted his complaint about all his loans to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Y 
and to L2G on 7 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
As L2G had agreed with the adjudicators recommendations regarding Loans 3 and 4, I said 
that I didnt propose to investigate these loans but would include the redress for them within 
the award section. 
I noted that when L2G lent to Mr Y the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering into regulated credit agreements. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ys creditworthiness before it entered into the agreements. This meant 
that L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Mr Y wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreements when due, and the risk to Mr Y of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Mr Ys ability to make repayments under the agreements 
as they fell due over the life of the agreements, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
Id explained that the rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to 
assess creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income 
(over the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other 
debts. Whilst it is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out 
these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being 
provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total 
cost of the credit. So, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness needs to be flexible and 
what is appropriate for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for 
a borrower in one circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other 
circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ys case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ys loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make fair lending decisions? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ys loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
L2G gathered some information from Mr Y about his income and expenses before it agreed 
each loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £650. The interest rate was 207.6% (1,013.2% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £148.56. If Mr Y made each payment 
when it was due, hed pay £2,674.08 in total.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before Loan 1. The lender would have been aware from 
these that Mr Y wasnt in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, he wasnt bankrupt and there 
were no county court judgements against him. There were also no defaulted accounts in the 
six months prior to the loan application. 
But, L2G would also likely have seen that Mr Ys current account had an overdraft limit of 
£1,250 and that his overdrawn balance was at its limit. Id also noted that Mr Y had two 
outstanding loans which hed taken out within the previous four months. It would have seen 
from its credit checks that Mr Y needed to borrow short term loans in December 2018 and 
January 2019 for £300 and £400 respectively. Whilst these were each repaid the following 
month, Mr Y had needed to borrow an additional loan in January 2019 for £72 which was still 
outstanding, and hed needed to borrow another loan for £250 in February 2019 which was 
still outstanding. Altogether, I thought Mr Ys relatively recent need for expensive short term 
credit together with his current account at its overdraft limit ought to have reasonably caused 
concerns as it appeared that Mr Ys finances might be strained, despite Mr Ys relatively 
large declared disposable income. 
I was also aware that a lenders credit checks might not reveal the full extent of a borrowers 
credit commitments. L2G would likely be aware of this too. The information it sees is not 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all lenders
reported to the same credit reference agencies. 
L2G was also aware that Mr Y was entering into an expensive loan agreement. In his 
application Mr Y had declared a monthly income of £1,700 and total expenses of £750. Hed declared no spending on credit commitments although L2G would have likely known from its 
credit checks that this wasnt the case and it increased his expenditure by around £130 to 
take account of these. It also seemed that L2G had considered Mr Ys living costs to be low 
as it had increased these by around £200. It had also reduced Mr Ys monthly income to 
£1,398.99 before reducing it further by 5% as a buffer to account for any fluctuations in his 
expenditure. So, I could see that L2G wasnt confident in the income and expenditure 
amounts declared by Mr Y.
I also thought L2G might have been concerned as to why someone with a relatively large 
amount of available income (according to Mr Ys declared income and expenses) would 
need to borrow expensive credit. L2G was aware that Mr Ys declared income and expenses 
left him with a disposable income of £950. I have to question just why it was thought that    
Mr Y needed to borrow £650 on such disadvantageous terms if he had a declared monthly 
disposable income in excess of this amount. 
I could also see that L2Gs analysis of Mr Ys income and expenditure showed discrepancies 
between its checks and the amounts hed declared which were significantly wide.
I appreciated that L2G had said that it used a higher expenditure figure and a lower income 
figure. But I wasnt satisfied that L2Gs checks had gone far enough. I thought there was 
enough from what it had found on its checks for it to have taken its checks further. The loan 
was running for 18 months. Given the length of time Mr Y was committing to repay the credit 
and what L2G had found on its checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient to get a clear 
picture of Mr Ys finances at the time and for L2G to be confident that Mr Y could repay the 
loan without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
contractual or statutory payments and without the repayments having a significant adverse 
impact on his financial situation. 
L2G was required to establish whether Mr Y could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr Y, asking for copies of bills and/or 
receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing credit 
commitments. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this, other than to verify Mr Ys income 
using an online income verification tool. So overall, I didnt think the checks L2G had carried 
out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
Loan 2
Mr Y repaid Loan 1 12 days after taking it out. Mr Y took out Loan 2 just nine days after 
repaying his previous loan. I thought L2G ought to have been concerned by his early 
repayment of Loan 1 and his need to borrow expensive credit again shortly after. That might 
be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was facing problems managing 
their money. The loan amount had increased to £750 and the monthly loan repayments had 
increased to £171.42 and still needed to be repaid over 18 months. The interest rate was 
207.6%, (1,013.2% APR). If Mr Y made each payment when it was due, hed pay £3,085.56 
in total.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before Loan 2. As Mr Ys application for Loan 2 was made 
only three weeks after his application for Loan 1, the credit checks before the two loans were 
similar. Whilst the balances on the two outstanding loans had decreased, I could see that   
Mr Y had exceeded the overdraft limit on his current account by £29. His credit score had 
decreased from 476 to 438 and there were six credit searches in the previous month which I 
thought indicated a need for credit. For similar reasons as for Loan 1, I thought the checks should have caused L2G concerns. And as Id set out above, L2Gs credit checks might not 
have revealed the full extent of Mr Ys other credit commitments. 
In his loan application Mr Y had declared a monthly income of £1,800 and total expenses of 
£675 with no spending on credit commitments although L2G would again have likely known 
from its credit checks that this wasnt the case and it had increased his expenditure by 
around £132 to take account of these. It also seemed that L2G had considered Mr Ys living 
costs to be low as it had increased these by around £200. It had also reduced Mr Ys 
monthly income to £1,358.30 before reducing it further by 5% as a buffer to account for any 
fluctuations in his expenditure. So, I could again see that L2G wasnt confident in the income 
and expenditure amounts declared by Mr Y.
I again thought L2G might have been concerned as to why someone with a relatively large 
amount of available income (according to his declared income and expenses) would need to 
borrow expensive credit. L2G was aware that Mr Ys declared income and expenses left him 
with a disposable income of £1,125. This seemed unlikely given that he wanted to borrow 
£750. 
I could again see that L2Gs analysis of Mr Ys income and expenditure showed 
discrepancies between its checks and the amounts hed declared which were significantly 
wide.
I appreciated that L2G had said that it used a higher expenditure figure and a lower income 
figure. But for the same reasons as for Loan 1, I wasnt satisfied that L2Gs checks had gone 
far enough. I again thought L2G should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more 
thorough understanding of Mr Ys financial position in order to satisfy itself that he could 
repay the loan without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
contractual or statutory payments and without the repayments having a significant adverse 
impact on his financial situation. I couldnt see that L2G had taken steps to do this, other 
than to verify Mr Ys income using an online tool. So overall, I didnt think the checks L2G 
had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate.
Although I didnt think that L2G had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
Loans 1 and 2, that in itself didn't mean that Mr Ys complaint about these loans should 
succeed. I also needed to be persuaded that what Id considered to be proportionate checks 
would have shown L2G that Mr Y couldn't sustainably afford Loans 1 and 2. So, Id looked at 
Mr Ys credit report and bank statements to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make fair 
lending decisions? 
Id thought about what L2G wouldve seen if it had done what I considered to be 
proportionate checks before Loans 1 and 2. Id dealt with these loans together as they were 
just three weeks apart. 
Mr Y had provided his credit report and his bank statements from around the time hed 
applied for Loans 1 and 2. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that L2G should 
have done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender was 
likely to have seen had it made better checks. 
Id reviewed Mr Ys spending on his bank statements. Worryingly, the statements showed 
that Mr Y was spending a substantial amount on gambling. Hed spent more than four times 
his declared income on gambling in April 2019 and his heavy gambling continued into            
May 2019. Mr Ys spending on gambling was frequent enough throughout those months that 
it was more likely than not that it would continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to     Mr Y being able to repay the loan sustainably. In these circumstances, I didnt think that L2G 
would have lent if it had known this, as I thought it ought to have if it had made better 
checks. 
The credit report and statements also showed that Mr Ys financial circumstances were 
strained. Hed borrowed numerous short term loans to supplement his income in April 2019. 
These loans totalled at least £3,700. This suggested that Mr Y was reliant on short term 
lending. 
So, Id thought if L2G had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it was 
likely it would have discovered Mr Ys relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and the 
full extent of Mr Ys financial commitments. Id thought L2G should reasonably have realised 
that Mr Y was over committed financially and that he was having difficulty managing his 
finances. So, it was clear that further checks wouldnt have provided the assurance L2G 
needed. And I thought L2G ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr Y 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay his loans. So, it should reasonably have concluded 
that it had treated Mr Y unfairly when it agreed to lend to him.
Id noted that L2G had said that Mr Y had enough disposable income to afford his 
contractual instalments. But it seemed to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of 
whether the loan was affordable for Mr Y on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was 
required to establish whether Mr Y could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that 
they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr Y or L2G, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to say that Mr Ys complaint about Loans 1 and 2 should be upheld, and that L2G 
should put things right on those loans along with paying the compensation and taking the 
steps it had already agreed to do for Loans 3 and 4 as follows: 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
L2G should
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr Y on Loans 1 to 4;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ys credit file in relation to Loans 1 
to 4
* HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr Y responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
L2G hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr Y has accepted my provisional decision and that both he and L2G have given 
me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the complaint and require L2G to pay Mr Y 
some compensation and take the steps as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to:-
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr Y on Loans 1 to 4;
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ys credit file in relation to 
Loans 1 to 4
* HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman