DRN-1741198
The complaint
Mrs R complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs R was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. At the end of the contract the car was inspected and collected. MBFS 
subsequently sent an invoice for damage charges.
Mrs R disputed the charges. Shes unhappy that shes been charged for a broken key. She 
believes the key just needed a new battery as opposed to being faulty and requiring 
replacement.
In response MBFS said that although the key was present, it wouldnt start the engine. It said 
the vehicle returns standards required all equipment, including but not limited to keys, to 
operate correctly. MBFS offered to reduce the spare key charge by 20% as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that because the key wasnt working, 
MBFS could charge for a replacement. The investigator said there wasnt enough evidence 
to show that the key just needed a new battery.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said shed been told by the agent who inspected the car that if the 
key only needed a new battery, MBFS would get back to her and shed only be charged for a 
new battery not a replacement key.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs R would be concerned to be invoiced for charges she considers to be 
excessive.
Ive looked at the agreement. Mrs Rs responsibility was to return the car in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of he agreement, with regards to the vehicle returns standards and 
the relevant guidelines. This includes a requirement to return the car in good condition, free 
from broken or damaged items.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mrs R would have been aware that the key needed to be 
returned in working order.
Theres no dispute that the key wasnt working when it was returned with the car. I dont 
think it matters whether the key was faulty or whether it needed a new battery, because 
either way it wasnt returned in working order. Im satisfied that MBFS can charge for the key 
in accordance with the terms and conditions.
I appreciate that Mrs R has said that the agent told her the key just needed a new battery 
and she would be charged less if this was the case. There are no notes of the discussions 
between Mrs R and the agent so I cant be certain of what was said. MBFS has said that it 
has no record of Mrs R being told this. It has also said that the charge for a key which wasnt 
working  for whatever reason  would be the same.
Im aware that Mrs R has said that the key stopped working around halfway through the 
agreement. I think Mrs R had a reasonable time to replace the battery (if this was what was 
required) or to arrange for the key to be repaired or replaced before the car was handed 
back. On balance, and because Mrs R doesnt dispute that the key wasnt working when she 
returned the car, I dont think MBFS acted unfairly in charging her for a replacement key.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs R and MBFS. I dont agree that Mrs R was told shed 
receive a price reduction if the key just needed a battery. The agent advised Mrs R that the 
key would be inspected and that an invoice would be sent confirming the charges.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think MBFS has applied the charges unfairly, because 
the key wasnt working when it was returned. There isnt enough evidence to persuade me 
that Mrs R was told shed only be charged for a new battery. Further, I dont think  its likely 
that the key only needed a new battery, because MBFS has confirmed that having inspected 
the key it had to replace the whole key fob.
Taking everything into consideration, I think the charges have been fairly applied. I also thin 
the offer to reduce the charges by 20% is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking MBFS to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman