DRN-4126875
The complaint
Mr N complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to close his accounts and about how it dealt 
with the situation around this.
What happened
In March 2022, TSB blocked Mr Ns access to his account as the result of concerns that 
were raised about a payment that he had received. TSB told Mr N that it had done this and 
that he needed to provide it with proof of entitlement to the payment he had received. Mr N 
wasnt happy about this and contacted TSB. He told it about the payment and provided 
information which he felt supported his entitlement to it. But TSB didnt accept this. Because 
of this and the circumstances of the payment, TSB took action to immediately close Mr Ns 
accounts.
TSB moved the balanced of Mr Ns accounts into his current account and then issued a 
cheque for the balance of the accounts to him. Mr N wanted TSB to issue the cheque in a 
way that meant he could cash it in a branch  but TSB said it couldnt do this. It maintained 
that it could only pay Mr N the balance by cheque in the way it already had. 
Around the same time, the sender of the payment started pursuing Mr N for the funds. Mr N 
was under the impression that TSB had returned this from its correspondence with him, but it 
turned out the funds were only returned some months after the payment was first flagged. 
Mr N says that this meant that the sender of the payment pursued him for the money and 
tried to take legal action against him because the payment hadnt been returned.
Mr N remained unhappy with how TSB had dealt with this situation, so he brought his 
complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked at it. They felt that TSB was 
entitled to close Mr Ns accounts and to have asked him for proof of entitlement to the 
payment in question. When Mr N didnt provide that, they felt it was fair for TSB to have held 
onto the money and noted that it had eventually returned this to the sending bank.
Mr N didnt agree with this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ns account explained that TSB can withhold access to payments received 
into the account. Those terms explain that if this happens, TSB will notify a customer and let 
them know what they can do if they think they are entitled to the money. Thats what TSB did 
here. It received information from the bank that sent the payment and felt that it needed 
some further details from Mr N to demonstrate his entitlement to it. TSB was entitled to take 
that action and I think it did so fairly, by giving Mr N the opportunity to prove his entitlement 
to the payment. But Mr N wasnt able to provide that in a way that TSB was satisfied with. So 
I think it was fair to continue to withhold Mr Ns access to that money.
I also think that it was fair that TSB then closed Mr Ns account as it did here. Again, thats in 
line with what the terms say  and TSB has shown that it acted in line with these in the 
circumstances. TSB has explained to this service why it took this action in the circumstances 
and Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so and that it acted fairly, even if I realise Mr N may 
not see it this way.
Mr N is also unhappy that TSB didnt give him a cheque that he could use to exchange for 
cash in a branch. TSB explained why it couldnt do this though, as the cheque needed to be 
made out to Mr N in his name. Thats a fair explanation and while I dont doubt that Mr N had 
difficulties in paying the cheque in  I dont think thatd be something its fair to hold TSB 
liable for. So while TSB didnt do what Mr N wanted, Im satisfied there was good reason that 
it couldnt do so.
Then there is the issue of Mr N being under the impression that TSB had returned the 
payment in dispute to the sender. I can, to some extent, see why Mr N may have believed 
that. On 18 March 2022, TSB told him that the payment had been recovered. But I cant see 
that TSB ever confirmed to Mr N that the payment had been returned to the sender. So I 
dont think itd be fair to hold TSB liable for any impact on Mr N due to what he may have told 
the sender of the payment beyond what TSB had told him. In any event, Mr N has confirmed 
that the payment was returned in July 2022 and so the sender now has the funds.
So overall here, Im satisfied that TSB has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
It follows that I wont be telling it to take any further action here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman