DRN-3330563
The complaint
Ms B complains about how TSB Bank plc has dealt with her account and about the 
registering of a default.
What happened
Ms B says she had a TSB account that had an overdrawn balance that hadnt been used 
since 2011. She says in 2012 she was told the account had been passed to a debt 
collections department. Ms B says she was contacted in 2020 by TSB about changes to her 
account and so contacted it. She says TSB couldnt find any communications between them 
from between 2011 and 2020 which she says is a breach of her personal data. Ms B says 
TSB then told her a default should have been registered in 2012 but it registered it in 2021. 
She says TSBs actions have impacted on her health and affected her credit score.
TSB accepts it made a series of mistakes. It accepts it should have registered a default in 
2012 and accepts it made a mistake by registering it in 2021. TSB has paid £275 
compensation for what took place and apologised.
Ms B brought her complaint to us and our investigator accepted mistakes had been made 
but thought the compensation offer appropriate. The investigator thought it would be for the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide if there had been a personal data breach 
and thought TSB was only obliged to keep records for six years. 
Ms B doesnt accept that view and says she returned a cheque to TSB for £50 and says it 
has now made errors with her address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Ms B will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that TSB has made a series of mistakes. It should have registered 
a default in 2012 then mistakenly registered it from 2021. I have no doubt Ms B was caused 
distress and inconvenience for what ought to have been a straightforward issue.
The key issue is the level of compensation is respect of those mistakes. I have not seen any 
evidence that Ms B suffered any financial loss as a result of the mistakes and think that the 
default was removed within a relatively short time period. I accept Ms B would have been 
concerned about its impact but cant see that the mistake, for example affected a credit 
application or similar matters. Im satisfied that the total offer of £275 compensation is fair 
and reasonable and is line with the type and amount of awards we would make in these 
circumstances. I find that award fairly reflects the impact on Ms B and that no financial loss 
took place. I appreciate Ms B has returned a cheque for £50 and no doubt TSB can re-issue 
that cheque if she decides to accept this decision.
I also appreciate that Ms B says TSB has breached personal data rules. I can see the 
investigator has explained the ICOs role in such matters but make clear to Ms B that 
normally a business is required to keep records for six years. Im satisfied that Ms B says 
TSB lost communication from 2012 onwards. But I think it likely on balance that there wasnt 
any communication from 2012 until 2020 and that the communication from 2012 is unlikely 
to have been retained.
Overall, Im satisfied that TSB has fairly apologised for its mistakes and paid appropriate 
compensation. I cant fairly comment on the new address complaint points Ms B raises as 
this hasnt been investigated by TSB. I have made clear that TSB ought to re-issue the 
cheque for £50 if Ms B wishes to accept this decision and if it hasnt been cashed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman