DRN-1558885
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was unfairly led to believe he would be approved for a credit card 
with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr F says Lloyds decision to decline his application was 
unreasonable.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- Mr F has forwarded a screen shot of the information he was given by Lloyds before 
he completed his credit card application. It said Mr Fs eligibility was subject to final 
checks. Im satisfied Lloyds gave clear information that Mr Fs credit card application 
would be reviewed and checked before a decision to approve it was made. 
- Ive also reviewed the application process Mr F completed. Im satisfied that Lloyds 
made it clear what was happening at each stage. The application process shows that 
even though Mr F was sent pre contract information, approval was subject to final 
checks by Lloyds. 
- Lloyds declined Mr Fs credit card application as it didnt pass its lending 
assessment, a step it was entitled to take in line with its commercial judgement. 
Lloyds referred Mr L back to his credit file by way of explaining its decision. Mr F has 
sent a copy of his credit file to us and it contains adverse credit information that is 
likely to have influenced Lloyds decision. 
- Mr F says Lloyds should have approved his application on appeal. However, Im 
satisfied Mr Fs application didnt meet Lloyds lending criteria and was legitimately 
declined.
- I think Lloyds has dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman