DRN-3890636
The complaint
Mr G complains about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) and the service he received when he 
called them to authorise a payment from his bank account.
What happened
On 4 January 2020, Mr G needed to pay a taxi fare but didnt have his debit card, or the 
phone registered to his account. So, he called BOS to authorise a transfer from his account 
to the drivers account for the fare amount.
But BOS were unable to process this transfer, as Mr G didnt have his Personal Security 
Number (PSN) to hand. So, he was transferred to another BOS team to complete additional 
security checks in an attempt to ensure the transfer could be completed.
But Mr G didnt pass the additional security checks on the call. And Mr G explained hed 
forgotten the password to his tablet, another electronic device he had with him, so he 
couldnt access his banking app. Because of this, BOS explained the only way to authorise 
the transfer would be for Mr G to attend his local branch with identification. But as the call 
was made on a Saturday night, this couldnt be done until Monday. Mr G was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr G explained hed recently been in hospital and had been suffering with his mental health. 
And he explained how this situation had made this worse. He was unhappy that BOS had 
refused him access to his funds and he described how this had led to him being taken 
hostage by the taxi driver and due to non-payment, receiving a custodial jail sentence. Mr G 
also raised an additional complaint about not being provided statements he requested in 
branch. So, he wanted to be compensated for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
BOS responded and upheld the complaint in part. While they had no evidence to show Mr 
Gs statement request, they didnt dispute this request may have been made. So, they paid 
Mr G £35 to recognise the inconvenience Mr G was caused by not receiving the statements. 
But they didnt think they had acted unfairly when they refused to action the transfer on 4 
January 2020, as Mr G had failed to pass their security checks and they felt they had a duty 
to protect both Mr G and themselves from any fraudulent activity on the account. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint. Mr G 
remained unhappy with this response, and the way BOS handled his complaint. So, he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought BOS had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the account, when refusing to make the 
payment as they were satisfied Mr G had been unable to pass the required security checks. 
And they thought BOS had made reasonable attempts to provide Mr G with all the options 
he had available to him at the time. They were also satisfied the £35 BOS offered for the 
statement issue was reasonable. So, they didnt think BOS needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. He thought BOS were reasonably aware of his mental health conditions 
before he spoke to them on 4 January 2020. So, he thought BOS shouldve done more to 
assist him, considering what he felt was clear hostility from the taxi driver during the call. Mr 
G maintained that BOS actions had led to the difficulties he faced that night and that they 
were responsible for his involvement with the police and the ramifications of this. Mr G also 
expressed his intention to provide additional documentation such as social work and police 
reports to support his complaint but to date, this information hasnt been received. As Mr G 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I want to make it clear 
that I dont dispute Mr Gs testimony regarding the night in question, or the fear he felt and 
the hostility hes said he experienced. I also dont dispute Mr G suffered with mental health 
conditions that wouldve made the situation even more difficult. So, because of all of the 
above, I can understand why Mr G would feel as though BOS acted both unfairly and 
unreasonably when refusing to sanction the payment, as Mr G had no other way of 
accessing his funds at that exact moment in time. I also dont dispute BOS were aware of Mr 
Gs mental health conditions as I can see they have been noted in their system notes, so I 
can understand why Mr G feels BOS shouldve done more to help him considering this.
But for me to say BOS should compensate Mr G for the distress and upset hes been 
caused; I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied that BOS failed to act within the terms and conditions of the account Mr G held 
when refusing to authorise the payment. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was 
unfair for them to do so given the circumstances. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive considered, and how. I note BOS have paid Mr G £35 to accept they may have 
failed to action Mr Gs request for statements. I can see this has been paid, and I cant see 
that Mr G has disputed this payment or has raised further concerns about this. So, I dont 
intend to discuss this any further.
Instead, this decision focuses on BOS refusal to authorise a payment on 4 January 2020, as 
Mr G has confirmed to our investigator this is the sole reason for his complaint. I recognise 
Mr G was also unhappy with the way BOS handled his complaint about this, including their 
professionalism surrounding this, but complaints handling is an unregulated activity and so, 
falls outside of our services jurisdiction. So, I wont be commenting on BOS actions after Mr 
G initially raised his complaint any further.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the account Mr G held. And these state that BOS can 
refuse to make a payment, cash deposit or cash withdrawal if we need to make additional 
security checks such as checking we are dealing with you and to protect you or us from 
fraud or to ensure we dont breach any law or regulation.
Ive listened to the full call recording of the call between Mr G and BOS on 4 January 2020. 
Mr G was initially passed over to the fraud team, as he was unable to provide his PSN to 
authorise the payment. While I understand why Mr G was unable to obtain this PSN as hed previously broken his phone during a psychotic episode, I wouldnt expect BOS to authorise 
a payment without this as it is part of their security process to ensure a customers account 
is protected from any fraudulent activity that may take place. If they didnt do this, anyone 
could call BOS to authorise a payment, stating they were a customer, with only relative basic 
customer information. So, I dont think I can say they acted unfairly here.
To try and assist Mr G, the fraud department asked Mr G to confirm the last amount hed 
withdrawn using his debit card. And Ive seen the answer Mr G provided failed to match the 
transaction report available to BOS. So, Im satisfied Mr G failed to pass this check.
Because of this, Ive heard BOS then proceeded to explore other options available to Mr G. 
It was confirmed Mr G had lost his debit card, so was unable to use this to make payment. 
While I appreciate the inconvenience this caused Mr G, I dont think BOS were responsible 
for the whereabouts of Mr Gs card, or the fact it was misplaced.
BOS then explored whether Mr G had an alternative electronic device to his phone, which 
had been confirmed broken, and Mr G confirmed he had a tablet with BOS banking app 
downloaded. But Mr G was unable to access this tablet, and the banking app, as he couldnt 
remember the correct password. Again, while I appreciate Mr Gs frustration surrounding this 
and I dont doubt this was probably impacted by his mental health conditions, I dont think 
BOS were responsible or able to control this.
So, as Mr G was unable to access a banking app from a device he owned, BOS explained 
the quickest way Mr G would be able to access the account would be to attend a branch with 
identification. This is because a replacement PSN could only be sent by post, which takes up 
to five working days. Sending a PSN in this format is a business decision taken by BOS in 
an attempt to keep account secure, and its not our services role to comment on or ask a 
business such as BOS to change a business decision. This would be the role of the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So, I wont be commenting on the fairness of this. 
But I am satisfied BOS acted in line with their processes when taking this action.
Unfortunately for Mr G, as he called on a Saturday night, branches wouldnt open again until 
Monday morning. And I can appreciate the upset this wouldve caused Mr G at the time, as 
he was in the taxi with the taxi driver who was demanding payment.
But crucially, I dont think this was the fault of BOS. And I dont think I can say theyve done 
anything wrong when taking this stance, as I think theyve acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when doing so. Mr G couldnt pass their security checks. Nor was 
he able to use a valid electronic device, in line with BOS processes. So, I dont think BOS 
were unfair to deem authorising the payment a risk to both themselves and Mr Gs account.
As I explained earlier within my decision, Ive also thought about whether BOS were fair to 
rely on these terms. And I appreciate Mr G doesnt think they have; due to their knowledge 
of his mental health conditions and the danger he was in at the time. While I dont doubt or 
dispute the upset and fear Mr G is likely to have felt at the time, caused by the situation he 
found himself in and made worse by his mental health, I dont think this means BOS acted 
unfairly here. 
While I would expect BOS to take into consideration Mr Gs mental health and his 
vulnerabilities and make reasonable adjustments where possible, I dont think these 
adjustments extend to authorising payments from Mr Gs account when hes failed to pass 
the necessary security checks. 
This is because, even with Mr Gs situation and vulnerabilities, BOS have a regulatory 
obligation to ensure Mr Gs account was safeguarded from any fraudulent activity. And while I dont dispute it was Mr G trying to authorise the payment for valid reasons, without Mr G 
passing the necessary checks I dont think BOS could be satisfied they were meeting their 
obligations if they decided to release the funds. And so, I think their decision to refuse the 
payment was a fair one. In fact, after listening to the call, Im satisfied BOS explored all 
possible avenues for Mr G to obtain access to his account and they provided the best 
possible alternative in Mr G attending a local branch.
So, because of all of the above, I think BOS have acted fairly, and in line with the terms of 
the account Mr G held and I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. And it is in no way intended to 
disregard the suffering Mr G experienced because he was unable to obtain the funds to pay 
the taxi fare. Im not disputing Mr Gs testimony regarding the aftereffects, including his 
involvement with the police. But crucially, I dont think this impact has resulted from an error 
BOS has made on this occasion and so, I dont think they need to compensate Mr G for this.
 My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman