DRN-3726632
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva ought to have informed him of the radical change to the risk level 
of one of the funds he was invested in within a lifestyling option of his pension plan. He 
says its failure to make him aware of the change meant he was unable to mitigate losses of 
around £75,000 from the funds highest point. He would like those losses to be reimbursed. 
What happened
In January 2008 Mr M joined his employers group personal pension scheme (GPP) which 
was administered by Norwich Union (now part of Aviva). Mr M met with an adviser at the 
time and was recommended to invest into a lifestyling option  which was designed to 
move his money to progressively more cautious funds as he neared his retirement date. 
Initially Mr Ms money was invested into a defensive managed fund, but this was 
subsequently renamed. But in 2012 the lifestyling option began which switched to 75% 
invested in long term gilts and 25% in deposit funds. This continued until 2017 when Mr M 
deferred his retirement date until 2022. 
In early 2022, having received a retirement options pack from Aviva, Mr M decided to defer 
his pension for two further years. He then received his annual pension statement for 2021 
and realised that what he thought were low risk lifestyle fund options  namely long dated 
gilts and cash deposits, had fallen in value, and the GPP had lost around 7% of its value 
from December 2020 to December 2021. So Mr M contacted Aviva for suggestions on how 
to best revive the fund in the immediate future.  
Unfortunately I understand the mailbox Mr M directed his question to was no longer in 
operation, so he didnt get a response. Having subsequently failed to get a satisfactory 
response by telephone Mr M sold the funds and reinvested elsewhere. But he complained 
about Avivas actions during this time. He said that his plan had lost almost £50,000 from 
2020 to 2022, but he was invested in a so called lifestyle mode which was supposed to 
avoid the risk of significant losses leading up to retirement. He questioned why the long gilt 
fund  which was the biggest part of the lifestyling option, was now risk rated five out of a 
total score of seven. He didnt think this was in line with lifestyle modelling for his 
circumstances. 
He also complained that Aviva hadnt responded to his original email thus not giving him the 
opportunity to potentially mitigate his losses. 
Aviva didnt uphold his complaint although it did offer £100 for the poor service it had 
provided in not responding to Mr Ms request for information. It said:
It was sorry he hadnt received confirmation that his email was undeliverable and had 
been sent to an obsolete mailbox. The £100 compensation was offered for that 
reason.
His money hadnt been moved to new funds but since inception the initial fund had 
been renamed. In addition, the movement from mixed shares to long gilts was part 
of the lifestyling option which Mr M had agreed to when he took out the plan. 
The lifestyling option  and selected retirement date - was chosen by Mr Ms adviser 
when they recommended he joined the pension scheme. 
The compensation it had paid Mr M in 2014 wasnt for the poor performance of the 
deposit fund but was as a result of an internal review which found the wording 
implied the fund would provide protection of the funds capital. But it did go on to 
explain that the fund could still go up or down in the future.
The long gilt fund was found to be suitable for lifestyling because of its relationship 
with annuity rates. It was therefore felt to be the best option for a client who intended 
to take out an annuity with the policy proceeds. 
Its role was as the administrator of Mr Ms plan. The management of the plan was the 
responsibility of an adviser or indeed Mr M himself.
Mr M said that Avivas description of lifestyling implied that it would de-risk the chosen fund 
towards retirement age  which it hadnt done. He thought it should therefore compensate 
him as it had done in 2014 when he was compensated because Aviva accepted its 
suggestion that the deposit fund would provide protection was incorrect.  He said he didnt 
think he needed an adviser to review his investment because it had been presented as a low 
risk option and until 2016 he only had an annual statement to rely on for information about 
the performance of his funds.
So he brought his complaint to our service where one of one of our investigators looked into 
the matter. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld making the following points in 
support of her assessment:
Aviva was Mr Ms pension provider but didnt provide him with any advice. So it 
wasnt able to switch Mr Ms funds or recommend that he do so. 
When he completed an application from for his GPP, Mr M chose a lifestyle option. 
This meant his funds would be switched as he got closer to retirement. So Aviva 
didnt move his funds but simply followed the direction of the lifestyle option. And it 
hadnt moved his money to a new fund in 2012 but had renamed the fund he was 
already invested in.
She thought it was Mr M  or his advisers responsibility to ensure his funds were 
aligned to his objectives and in particular his risk profile.
She accepted that the information Mr M had been provided with regarding the risk 
profile of the long gilt fund wasnt clear and might have been incorrect. But she could 
see that the composition of the fund hadnt changed  so it was only the increased 
volatility in gilts which had caused the fund to be considered higher risk. 
Mr M hadnt taken steps to mitigate the impact of the funds losses until May 2022  
some five months after he realised the fund had fallen significantly in value.
She thought the £100 Aviva had offered Mr M for the customer service issues was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said Aviva had, in his view, altered the nature of the product hed 
invested into which he thought wasnt exposed to adverse risk.. He said that Aviva had 
subsequently shifted the risk rating of that particular fund without informing any of the 
investors. He thought this meant the product was no longer fit for purpose. He made the 
following points to support his view:
By failing to inform him of the change Aviva denied him the opportunity to do 
anything about the problem.
Upon discovering the issue with the fund when he received his 2021 annual 
statement, Mr M contacted Aviva by email. But he didnt receive a reply. He tried to 
contact Aviva by phone but failed to get any answers to his questions about the 
funds performance. This was supported by the £100 compensation he received for 
Avivas poor customer service.As he didnt get a response about the fund, he sold its assets in May 2021 and 
thereafter reinvested the cash elsewhere.
He didnt accept the investigators explanation of market forces for the falls in that 
particular fund as his other personal investments didnt suffer such significant losses.
The investigator clarified her position about the adviser Mr M had dealt with and made the 
following points in response:
Although she had referred to the wrong adviser in her assessment Mr M had 
received advice on what funds to invest into. So Aviva wasnt obliged to provide Mr M 
with financial advice and the responsibility for managing the investment fell on him.
She thought he didnt take steps to mitigate his losses, by seeking further advice or 
switching the funds himself online until May 2022.
She didnt think the underlying investments had changed and so didnt believe Aviva 
needed to communicate the adjustment of the risk rating score to Mr M. She thought 
any changes to the risk rating had occurred because of the funds performance 
against the worldwide volatility which was occurring at the time. 
She accepted that Aviva should have communicated better with Mr M when he 
contacted it. But she still thought the £100 Aviva had offered for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M said:
By providing the investigator with incorrect details of his adviser at the time, Aviva 
had further demonstrated its incompetence and negligence.
But the point about him receiving advice was relevant because the advice was to 
invest in a safe life styling option. He didnt receive any further advice on his funds 
but when he became aware that the fund value was falling, he spent over three 
months trying to understand the reasons for that from Aviva. This delay cost him the 
opportunity to change things at that time.
He accepted that he hadnt reviewed his pension funds as often as he should have. 
But he believed he was invested in safe funds and in any case when he became 
aware of the funds performance from his 2021 annual statement, he immediately 
asked Aviva to provide the reasons for that. 
He didnt think it was reasonable to expect everyday pension scheme members to 
regularly check the risk rating of the funds they held.
He thought Aviva had failed in its responsibility to advise its customers of significant 
changes to its products which might negatively affect their investment. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She explained that Mr Ms original 
complaint had been sent to a mailbox that wasnt in use. She thought that Mr M was more 
likely than not to have received an undeliverable reply as she herself had done when trying 
that mailbox. She also explained that Aviva had simply extended the range of risk ratings 
that applied to Mr Ms fund in February 2020  which she thought led to a slight decrease in 
its overall risk rating which was probably caused by an increase of gilts held compared to 
corporate bonds. 
She didnt think it was reasonable to expect Aviva to have made Mr M aware of this change 
 which she didnt think was significant and would usually be described as a rebalance 
which funds tend to do from time to time. But in any case, as the plan was administered on a 
non-advised basis, Aviva didnt have a responsibility to advise Mr M whether the fund was 
still suitable for his objectives. It was for Mr M to make such a decision, or seek advice, 
about fund suitability for his circumstances.
 Mr M said that Aviva had accepted its mailbox had been closed and his email should have 
been forwarded to the correct area or notification should have been sent to the sender. He 
said Aviva admitted that, during the calls he had with its staff, they ought to have known the 
email address was no longer in use and when the email was sent directly to a staff member 
they allocated it to the date of that call not the date of the initial email  which meant that it 
was delayed in being assigned and acknowledged. 
He said that far from suggesting he was in a better position when Aviva revised the risk 
rating of the fund to five out of a score of seven the investigator hadnt commented on the 
fact that a safe lifestyling option was rated four out of a total score of five in February 2020 
 and Aviva didnt tell investors about that. He thought wed failed to address the fact that 
Aviva didnt advise its customers that the product was no longer fit for purpose. He said our 
view was that Aviva wasnt required to tell him about the increased risk, but he thinks it was, 
as it must have realised that the product would cause a loss of benefits to investors.
So as no resolution could be found the complaint has been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know that isnt 
the outcome Mr M would have hoped for  and I have some sympathy for his position here 
having suffered a significant fall in the value of his pension fund. But I dont think Aviva has 
done anything wrong here that it hasnt already paid compensation for, so Ill explain my 
reasons.
Mr Ms assertion that lifestyling was a safe option 
Mr M says he had no reason to review the investments within his plan because it was sold 
to us as offering a safe, so-called life styling option, designed to provide a low-risk sum at 
normal retirement age. At the time we chose it, that sum would only buy an annuity. He said 
lifestyling was supposed to de-risk his money as he approached his retirement date, and he 
took out that option to ensure his fund didnt lose value close to the time when he required it. 
So Ive started by looking at what Aviva told Mr M in its literature about the safety he could 
expect from lifestyling.
In 2008 Mr M was advised to join his employers GPP. Initially he was recommended to 
invest into a defensive managed fund  which was subsequently renamed to a mixed share 
fund, and he also agreed to incorporate the lifestyling approach into his plan. Ive been 
provided with a copy of the policy documents/features that Mr M would have been given as 
part of his GPP documents and it set out the way the lifestyling would work. It said that the 
balanced approach applies to this policy. Please look at the additional lifestyling pages for 
more information. The investment funds to be used for this approach are as follows: It then 
noted that Mr Ms fund would be switched towards 75% retirement protection and 25% 
deposit from 2012.  
So I think it was clear how Mr Ms fund would work going forward using lifestyling. But Ive 
also gone on to look at the section which set out how the lifestyling option worked. It said 
Lifestyling allows you to choose your investment funds from the start to the end of the 
contract. It can, depending on the choice you have made, allow you to progressively move to 
more cautious funds closer to retirement. The policy features show if lifestyling applies and 
the approach you have taken. The notes continued to explain how the contributions are 
directed to the fund and how the units are switched. It also confirmed that the lifestyling approach can be stopped at any time and funds can be changed and a different approach 
taken by the client.
So theres nothing to support Mr Ms claim that the lifestyling option was a de-risk option. I 
havent seen anything to suggest there was a guarantee that lifestyling would protect the 
value of the fund or that it couldnt lose any of its value. While the lifestyling option would 
undoubtably have intended to take a more cautious approach to investing leading up to 
retirement it didnt guarantee this would maintain the value of the plan and it couldnt have 
foreseen the external events which generally can affect all investments, so that they are 
subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions. 
In this particular case the timing of the losses the plan suffered can, to some extent, be set 
against the background of the global pandemic from around March 2020. Indeed Mr M has 
provided a spreadsheet showing the growth on his pension plan and it shows an increase 
every year on year until 2020 to 2021. So I think its unlikely that the fund  of which the 
composition hardly changed each year, would suddenly lose significant value unless some 
other factors were involved. I think its clear that the effects of the pandemic upon 
investments generally would also have been a significant factor here. So I dont think its fair 
to conclude that Aviva told Mr M that lifestyling would have been a de-risk option for him or 
that it provided any sort of guarantees about performance.  
But, even if the effects of the pandemic werent as significant as Ive stated, the fact is that 
although Aviva provided the information about the funds and the lifestyling, it didnt sell it or 
advise that it was the best option. Any claim that lifestyling, and the funds used with that 
option were safe  or the recommendation that the option best suited Mr Ms situation and 
should be included within his investment choices, were most likely to have been the 
responsibility of the adviser who met with Mr M at the time.
What was Avivas responsibility?   
 
But, following on from my previous assertion, the important point here is that Aviva didnt 
give any advice to Mr M regarding his investment  nor was it obliged to do so going 
forward. So whether the fund was suitable for Mr Ms circumstances should have been 
established when he first invested. That advice was carried out by Mr Ms adviser at the time 
he first joined the GPP. So Aviva had no obligation to ensure the fund was suitable for 
Mr Ms circumstances or to update him if it thought the fund might subsequently not be 
aligned with his situation. It had no idea of Mr Ms attitude to risk and therefore couldnt have 
known if the plan was suitable for him at the beginning or throughout the term of his plan. 
Aviva was the administrator of the plan here and the fund manager. Its role was to invest 
Mr Ms pension funds as directed and to manage that fund in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. The only time it would have been obliged to contact Mr M and indeed the rest of 
the investors was if there was a significant underlying change to the composition of the fund. 
In this case Im satisfied there wasnt such a change and simply extending the range of how 
it scored the risk rating of the fund didnt, in my opinion, constitute a significant change to the 
actual fund itself. 
As an example, in January 2019  before the significant losses were suffered from the long 
gilt fund its composition was 97.5% gilts, 2.5% UK corporate bonds and 0.1% cash. In 2020 
that had changed to 99.9% UK Gilts and 0.1% cash. This was a small change of UK 
corporate bonds being sold and an extra 2.4% invested into Gilts. I dont believe this change 
was consummate with a radical change to the overall profile and risk rating of the fund. 
However the fund was scored in terms of its risk isnt material to Mr Ms complaint here as 
any advice to invest should have been given in accordance with his attitude to risk. That was one the factors that needed to be considered by the adviser when the money was initially 
invested. 
The changes to the risk score of the fund and to the terms and conditions of the plan
Mr M says the investigator failed to answer his question about the responsibility of a 
financial institution to inform its customers of changes to the product they originally selected 
as a safe option, where the changes made it unsafe. He referred to the original GPP terms 
and conditions from 2008 which said policy changes. If there is a material change: in the 
nature of our business or our investment activities, or/the way we administer this policy 
where we have introduced new systems, methods of operation, services or facilities, or/any 
laws, rules or regulations, or ruling by a Court, Ombudsman, Regulator or similar body: that 
significantly alters the basis on which this policy was entered into [by us], we can make 
changes to this policy or substitute a different policy offering broadly comparable benefits. If 
we do this we will give you at least 30 days advance notice of the change or longer if it is 
reasonable to do so. We will also explain the reason for the change and make sure you do 
not suffer any overall loss of benefits.
He also provided an excerpt from the provider to who he transferred his benefits, which set 
out the way in which it would update consumers about product changes.
But I dont think Aviva was obliged to do that here and I say that for the following reasons. 
Mr M has referred to Aviva as changing the product, but the product here was his pension 
plan which Im satisfied it didnt make any changes to. What Aviva did change was the range 
of scores it used to define the risk rating of this particular fund. It didnt really change the 
underlying composition of the fund as that remained at over 95% invested in Gilts. What it 
changed was that instead of scoring the risk out of five it decided to extend that scoring 
system to seven. So I dont think it made any significant difference to the underlying risk 
within the fund or the objectives that had been set out within its fund fact sheet. 
Aviva has said that the subsequent changes were made to the risk profile of the long gilt 
fund because of its overall volatility in the marketplace. It says there were specific reasons 
that meant Gilts were more volatile at that time. I think that ties in with my previous point 
about the effects of the pandemic and it certainly explains why a fund with its previous 
history suffered significant falls at this time. But my role here isnt to consider the investment 
performance of a particular fund or to explain its falls and rises in value. I would only usually 
consider upholding a complaint about performance where it relates to the overall suitability of 
a recommendation to invest in that fund. In this case Aviva wasnt responsibility for that 
advice. 
As the fund fact sheets stated Past performance is not a guide to future performance. The 
value of the fund is not guaranteed and may fall as well as rise. Investors may not get back 
the original amount invested. And in respect of the funds involved here the fact sheet 
explained that fund prices may move up and down significantly but offer potential for good 
returns over the long term. We regularly review the ratings we give to each investment fund. 
So, they might change from time to time.
So I dont think Aviva made any promises about investment performance to Mr M and it said 
that the fund risk rating may be reviewed at any time depending on factors affecting the 
markets.
Summary
I can understand Mr Ms frustrations with what happened here when he became aware of 
the significant losses to his plan. He knew the lifestyling option was designed to reduce the risk to his funds approaching retirement and so would have expected to be previously 
notified in advance of any changes to the fund which might have caused the losses. He says 
the changes to the risk profile of the long gilt fund made it unsuitable for its original purpose. 
But I dont think the underlying composition of the long gilt fund did change significantly over 
the term of his contract. I think the changes it made to the risk profile of the fund were as a 
result of its general volatility in the marketplace  which wasnt an unusual situation at that 
time. So I dont think it was obliged to make Mr M aware of those changes in respect of his 
pension plan. But the changes were set out within Avivas fund fact sheets which were 
always available to Mr M and because Aviva had no obligation to provide Mr M with ongoing 
advice  or had provided any advice when he took out the plan  it was for Mr M or his 
adviser to make any changes that were appropriate to the investment of his funds. As I said 
previously the lifestyling option could be terminated at any time and Mr M was free to switch 
his funds whenever he wanted to. 
Its unfortunate that so called lifestyling funds did fall so significantly in value  but thats the 
very nature of any investment. Mr Ms complaint is that the underlying fund changed and 
was no longer fit for purpose and that he should have been made aware of that change. But 
I dont think the make up of the fund did change and I dont think there was anything that 
Aviva was obliged to tell him about. I dont think its fair to say that Aviva was obliged to have 
done more to make Mr M aware of the situation with the fund.  
Avivas lack of response to Mr Ms questions and its offer of compensation
I know Mr M has said that he didnt seek financial advice when he became aware of the 
problem because he was trying to understand from Aviva why, his relatively safe fund, was 
falling in value. In order to demonstrate that Mr M said that when he first asked Aviva to 
explain the losses it didnt respond. He said this also meant he wasnt able to mitigate his 
losses for some time. 
Aviva explained that the mailbox to which Mr M sent his initial complaint was no longer in 
operation at that time. It said Mr M should have received a reply confirming that and 
providing an alternative. However, it also accepted that when Mr M subsequently contacted 
it by phone its advisers ought to have known that and taken ownership of the problem by 
prioritising and allocating his complaint from the date he sent the email  not the date of the 
call. I can see Aviva sent Mr M £100 as compensation for this poor service. 
I can understand Mr Ms frustrations here but, although I dont dispute what he says about 
not receiving an undelivered email report, I dont think theres any evidence to support his 
claim that he wasnt able to mitigate any losses until he received a reply from Aviva. I havent 
seen any evidence that Aviva prevented Mr M from starting the process of selling or 
transferring his funds. 
But regardless, Aviva could have dealt with Mr Ms question in a more efficient and quicker 
way. It wasnt its fault that it didnt receive the original email, but I think it could have done 
more to own Mr Ms query when he contacted it by phone. However, I think that Avivas 
payment of £100 for that error is fair in the circumstances. 
I note Mr M says he didnt initially accept the payment but Im unsure whether thats still the 
case. So I shall leave it to Mr M to contact Aviva about the payment if he hasnt already 
encashed it.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman