DRN-4272262
The complaint
Mr P complains that, having told HSBC UK Bank Plc the length of term of the lease on his 
buy to let property and had the mortgage application accepted, the bank then withdrew the 
mortgage offer because it was unhappy with the effect of the short term of the lease on the 
saleability of the property.
What happened
Mr P applied for a remortgage with HSBC through a broker with the intention to complete in 
early March 2023. The amount of the loan was £107,500 for a 20-year term and a fixed 
interest rate for five years of 3.83%. Mr Ps property had a remaining term of 68 years on the 
lease. Mr P was asked about the remaining term on the application and told HSBC that it 
was 67 years. Mr P realised that there might be an issue with the lease term but says that 
HSBC told his broker that the lease would be ok if the valuer didnt have an issue with it as 
the main criteria is there to be not less than 30 years left at completion. A valuation took 
place and the offer produced. The lease term was queried by the solicitor and referred to the 
valuer who then decided that the lease term would have a detrimental effect on future 
saleability and recommended a lease extension which Mr P says at the time he couldnt 
afford. Mr P expected the remaining term of lease issue to be picked up by the valuer early 
in the application process. Mr P was unable to complete on the re-mortgage and had to 
complete a rate switch with his current lender. Mr P chose a fixed rate deal of 5.64% fixed 
for two years. 
HSBC in its final response letter says that it requires there to be no less than 35 years 
remaining on the lease at the end of the mortgage term (I note its instructions to brokers 
says 30 years) and that the application met this criteria. But it says that this is a minimum 
and doesnt guarantee that the application will be accepted. Although Mr P put the remaining 
term of the lease on the application, HSBC says that the standard valuation doesnt include 
a lease check even though the valuer is looking at the marketability of the property. It says 
that the lease checks are conducted by a solicitor during the conveyancing stage and then 
the valuer was asked to reconsider the marketability of the lease with the lease details 
available from the solicitor. At that stage it says that a risk-based decision was made to 
require a lease extension as a condition to lending.
Our investigator, whilst not disagreeing with HSBCs decision on the application felt that it 
should have reached its decision earlier given that Mr P had said in the application process 
that the remaining term was 68 years. She recommended compensation of £250 for Mr Ps 
inconvenience but didnt consider that this caused him a financial loss as he secured a 
mortgage at a lower rate than if he had looked for an alternative mortgage earlier. HSBC 
raised some issues with our investigator but, whilst disappointed, accepted her view. Mr P 
disagreed setting out his grounds for doing so in an email of 25 July 2023 which Ive 
considered along with his earlier submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The length of term of a lease may have an effect on the saleability of a property and the 
valuer here considered that it would have a detrimental effect and required a lease extension 
to allow HSBC to lend on the property.  The issue here is when HSBC should have known 
this and told Mr P. As I understand it, HSBC has a process whereby, as a preliminary issue it 
eliminates those properties whose lease has 30 years or less remaining at completion. That 
it seems is why it asks applicants for the length of term of their lease initially as a filtering 
exercise. 
But at the stage where it instructs a valuer, it assumes, despite what the applicant may have 
written on the application form, that the remaining term is 85 years or more.  At that stage, 
the valuer does not factor in the effect of the lease term on valuation. That is left to a later 
stage, after the mortgage offer issues. when the solicitor reports on the title to the property 
on the length of term of the lease and the exact term is ascertained by the solicitor. At that 
stage, when the length of the term is confirmed by the solicitor the valuer may be asked to 
comment on how it affects saleability of the property. That appears to be HSBCs process. 
But from Mr Ps point of view, he knew within a year what the term of the lease is, informs 
via his broker HSBC from the start what it is and assumes reasonably that the valuer has 
been told. So, when the valuer approves the mortgage initially, Mr P has good reason to 
believe that the lease term isnt an issue. 
On the one hand I accept that HSBC has gone through its process, and I can understand the 
logic of it to protect itself from lending on a lease that would cause it problems with its 
security. It may be, and I expect it isnt uncommon, that a customer wouldnt know the exact 
length of the lease. So, leaving that issue to the solicitor seems fair and reasonable and its 
the solicitors role to advise on title which would include the lease and its term.  But I also 
understand that there was a failure of communication with Mr P to advise him that the valuer 
had not yet considered the term of the lease in its valuation and that he had not yet passed 
that hurdle. The one clue is on the valuation report which refers at paragraph 7 as the 
remaining term being 85 years when it wasnt.
I note that in its instruction to brokers HSBC says that if the unexpired term at the outset had 
less than 85 years remaining, the marketability of the property would be subject to the 
valuers opinion. The question is when one can expect to get that opinion? Mr P would have 
expected it with the valuers initial report. HSBC says that the valuer wont comment on it 
until after the conveyancer inspects the title. Again, I can see the logic of that, but I can also 
see Mr Ps point that he cannot know that the valuer hasnt considered the lease term if hes 
already supplied the term of the lease before the valuer does his report.
I accept that HSBC can withdraw or amend its offer if matters come to its attention after the 
mortgage offer issues that affect the saleability of its property and, so, the value of its 
security. Under HSBCs processes this information from the valuer, after the solicitor 
reviewed the lease, came subsequent to the mortgage offer issuing. But there is clearly a 
failure of communication here with Mr P assuming, reasonably that the valuer would use the 
information he supplied about the lease term in the initial valuation and HSBC using it as a 
screening tool and not communicating it to the valuer. 
This failure of communication leads me to uphold this complaint. Ive come to a conclusion 
the same as our investigator but on different grounds. Our investigators view was that 
HSBC should have used the information provided by Mr P in the initial valuation and so told 
Mr P earlier that he would need a lease extension. After reviewing HSBCs processes, I dont 
consider they did anything wrong except not tell Mr P or his broker what they were doing and that the valuer was not considering the length of the lease term in the initial valuation. In any 
case we both agreed that the complaint should be upheld.
In my view, it would have been disappointing for Mr P and would have distressed him when 
he realised that he had not yet passed the test of the length of the lease. For that I believe 
that compensation is due and that the £250 suggested by our investigator is appropriate. But 
I dont consider that financial compensation is due. I note that our investigator didnt believe 
either that financial compensation was due. She said that at the time when Mr P applied to 
HSBC it wasnt clear that he would be able to borrow money from other lenders as on any 
new application as those lenders might require him to extend the lease term as HSBC did 
which he was then unable to do and that the rates available to him in November 2022 from 
his existing lender for a switch were all above the 5.64% which he is now on.  Mr P says that 
he could have got a better deal in October 2022 when the valuation report was issued and 
that valuation report in his view should have dealt with the lease term issue. But, as I say 
above, I cant fairly say that it that it should have done so. 
HSBC followed its process and Ive accepted that its a fair and reasonable process. So, 
although my view is that there was a communication failure Im not of the view that HSBCs 
process of revisiting the valuation after the solicitor comments on the lease term was unfair 
or unreasonable. I know that Mr P believes he was disadvantaged by the wait for a decision, 
but I dont consider that there was delay in reaching its decision although it could have 
managed its communication with Mr P better. So, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC 
to pay Mr P £250.   
Putting things right 
HSBC UK Bank PLC to pay Mr P £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank PLC to pay the above compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman