DRN-3252679
The complaint
Mr L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard send him too many 
messages about his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Our service doesnt have the power to tell financial businesses which commercial 
decisions they can or cannot make. All we can do is determine whether theyve 
treated a customer fairly. In this case, for me to say Barclays has treated Mr L 
unfairly, Id need to be satisfied they wouldnt have treated another customer, with 
similar circumstances in the same way.
Barclays sent us evidence that confirms Mr Ls preferences have been amended on 
their system so that he will only receive mandatory messages. By that, I mean 
messages all their customers receive  regardless of the way they manage their 
account. Given Mr L wants to limit the messages he receives about his credit card 
account, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably when they updated his preferences 
in this way.
I appreciate Mr L only wants to receive messages if theres suspected fraud or 
suspicious activity on his account. However, Barclays commercial decision is that 
their mandatory messages arent limited to those Mr L prefers. The evidence 
supports the fact other customers, with similar circumstances to Mr L, would be 
treated the same way. Therefore, I cant agree Barclays has treated him unfairly - 
and as such, I wont be asking them to do anything further to resolve Mr Ls 
complaint. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ls frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman