DRN-2399784
The complaint
Mr K complains that rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act in respect of a 
faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.  
However, first of all it is important to understand the relevant consumer law. In considering 
what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was around 12 years old and had done some 141,000 miles. It cost £750. As such, 
a significant degree of wear and tear was to be expected. The question is whether it was fit 
for purpose at the point of sale. Although Mr K had some issues with the car he was able to 
cover some 3,000 miles before he stopped using it. That suggests it was fit for purpose at 
the time of sale. If it had not been, I doubt if he could have made fair use of it in a short 
period of time.
It had passed its MOT some four months before it was sold, with some advisories, but 
nonetheless it was deemed to be roadworthy at that point. The recorded mileage at this time 
was 139,986. I note Mr K says he wasnt shown the MOT, but this was readily available 
online so it was open to him to be satisfied with what he was buying. The MOT indicates that 
more likely than not the car was fit for purpose at the time of sale
I gather the dealer offered to cover half the cost of some repairs when Mr K sought to return 
it. In the circumstances I consider that to have been a reasonable response. With the age 
and miles covered various components will have been reaching the end of their life and the 
fact that some of them needed replacing or repairing after a further 3,000 miles doesnt 
mean that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when sold.
The estimate that Mr K has submitted is for new brakes which are a wear and tear item and 
not something that could be said to have been an inherent fault at the point of sale and not 
something one would expect to be covered by a warranty.
I can see the car was subject to a recall, but I dont consider that was such that would have 
stopped Mr K buying the car. It was open to him to have taken it to a main dealer where it 
would have been fixed at no cost to him.
I have noted the bank has paid Mr K £100 for the poor service it gave him and I consider this 
to be a fair response.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman