DRN-3799077
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) didnt protect his pension fund. He also 
feels that it shouldve warned him about a drop in his pensions value. 
What happened
Mr R said his pension with SWL was a workplace pension that his employers selected as the 
best option to protect his funds and maintain low risk.
Mr R has had a pension plan with SWL since November 2010. Mr R was invested in a 
lifestyle strategy, which moved him into bonds and cash as he approached his selected 
retirement date. 
SWL said that the lifestyle strategy was the default that had been chosen by Mr Rs 
employer when the scheme was set up. It said that during the set-up of Mr Rs policy, it had 
sent out policy documents and made it clear what the lifestyle strategy was. It said it had 
also invited Mr R to contact it if he wanted a change to the lifestyling. 
On 12 March 2020, Mr R called SWL to ask it for the value of his pension. He called again 
on 5 January 2021 for a valuation. The value as of 4 January 2021 was £497,510.64.
SWL sent Mr R an annual statement as of 27 May 2021. This showed that the value was 
£467,675.73.
Mr R called to ask SWL for the value of his pension again on 27 January 2022. As of 26 
January 2022, the value was £461,733.19. 
SWL sent Mr R an annual statement as of 27 May 2022. This showed the value was 
£400,145.83, which was down £67,529.90 over the last year. The statement also showed 
that Mr R had around £100K invested in cash. And the remainder invested in the Pension 
Protector fund. 
Mr R called SWL on 16 June 2022. He told it he wasnt happy with the performance of the 
Pension Protector fund. And asked to switch all of his money held in the Pension Protector 
fund into his Cash fund.
SWL said its call handler told Mr R what his options were. And explained what was going on 
with the Pension Protector fund. But told him he couldnt give him advice.
Mr R asked SWL why he hadnt been contacted to warn him about the fall in value. SWLs 
call handler told him it wasnt feasible due to customer numbers. And that it also wasnt its 
role.
Mr R also asked SWL when the big fall in value of the Pension Protector fund took place. 
SWLs call handler ran through several dates to illustrate the changes, as follows:
15 May 2022: Unit price 209.8p Value £304,776.19
9 June 2022: Unit price 198.8p. Value £288,936.48
16 June 2022: Unit price 187.5p. Value £272,513.03
And said that around November/December 2021 was likely the peak value, with the 
decrease starting around March 2022. 
Mr R also felt that SWL shouldve notified him about the fall in value of the Pension Protector 
fund. But decided against raising a complaint at this stage.
Mr R called SWL on 21 June 2022 for a further valuation. He was told that the total pension 
value was £376,587.42. And it was 100% invested in cash. Mr R was alarmed by the further 
significant fall in value since his annual statement. The call handler told Mr R that the value 
of his fund on 16 June 2022 had been £375,860.72. Mr R decided to register a complaint 
against SWL about not being told about the fall in value of the Pension Protector fund. And 
also because the fund was called Pension Protector, but it hadnt protected him. He also 
said that hed received his annual statement three weeks late.
SWL acknowledged Mr Rs complaint on 27 June 2022. And issued further holding letters on 
18 July 2022 and 15 August 2022. 
SWL issued its final response to the complaint on 17 August 2022. It sent Mr R £50 for the 
delay in replying to his complaint. But said it couldnt uphold his complaint about the 
performance of his funds, the choice of lifestyling, the duty of care and lack of proactive 
intervention when his funds had started to fall sharply in value. 
SWL said that global events had caused the loss in value of Mr Rs pension. It also said 
bond-type investments, such as the Pension Protector fund, were regarded as lower risk 
investments than equities. This meant they formed a larger part of lower risk portfolios. But 
that in the current environment, as bonds had fallen further than equities, lower risk portfolios 
had fallen by more than higher risk portfolios. SWL said that it was normal for the value of Mr 
Rs pension to go up and down over the short term. But that as his pension was intended to 
be a long-term investment, it was important to maintain a longer-term view that markets 
could bounce back.
SWL also told Mr R that the lifestyling on his policy was intended to protect the value of his 
pension. It said that if the value of the Pension Protector fund went down, so did the cost of a 
pension for life. This meant that Mr R should be able to buy a similar annuity with his smaller 
fund than he wouldve been able to buy before the value started to fall. 
SWL also said that Mr R could change his pension investment approach at any time during 
the policy's life. And that it wasnt its policy to produce a newsletter for investments.
Mr R was unhappy with SWLs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. To put 
things right, he wanted SWL to make up the investment loss. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider he could 
fairly hold SWL accountable for the performance of Mr Rs pension, as it depended on many 
factors that were outside of its control. And, although he acknowledged the fund in question 
was called the Pension Protector fund, he said the fund wasnt guaranteed. And that the 
annual statements explained that the fund could go down as well as up. Our investigator 
also felt that it was reasonable for SWL to say that due to its number of customers, it wasnt 
practical to alert them to any falls in the value of their pensions.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think SWL had managed his funds properly. He felt it shouldve notified him about the fall in value. And felt that SWL had said in its 
advertising that it would look after its customers. Mr R also said that his 2022 annual 
statement had taken three weeks to arrive. And if itd arrived sooner, he wouldve 
transferred. 
Mr R asked for a copy of his original complaint referral from 21 June 2022. SWL provided 
this, as follows:
Performance of fund
Inappropriate name of Pension Protector fund
Lack of pro-Active intervention by Scottish Widows when fund value started to go 
down sharply
Failure to provide Duty of Care by Scottish Widows on behalf of customers (note no 
newsletters for investments like other providers may offer)
Would like the setting up and choice of lifestyling that was put in place investigated
Gap between valuation date of statement (27/05/2022) and eventual postage of the 
ABS (16/06/2022)
The customer would also like it noted that the recent performance of their fund has 
substantially changed their retirement plans and caused distress and disappointment. 
The fund was eventually switched to 100% cash on 16/06/22.
Mr R also told this service he felt thered been a lack of customer care from SWL. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr R. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered whether SWL can fairly be held responsible for the performance of the 
Pension Protector fund.
Is SWL responsible for the poor performance of the Pension Protector fund?
From what Ive seen, SWL wasnt responsible for the sale of Mr Rs pension plan, or for 
giving him any personal advice on what was suitable for him. The plan was chosen by his 
employer. SWL was the administrator and plan provider, not the adviser. 
SWL said it doesnt guarantee the performance of the Pension Protector fund. It said that 
although the fund was low risk and low growth compared to others, its value can still change 
significantly. it also said that the decrease in the fund value was reflective of market 
conditions, which were outside of its control. 
SWL also said that the information in the annual statements it provides to its customers 
details their options, explains how investments work and provides links to further information and support.
Mr R didnt think SWL had managed his funds properly. He said that while he was aware 
that there was some risk to investing in the Pension Protector fund, he wasnt aware there 
was so much risk, particularly given the name of the fund. He said finding out how badly the 
fund had done had been a shock, which had impacted his mental health and future plans.
While I understand that Mr R feels this way because his fund value has significantly 
decreased, I dont agree that SWL has failed to manage Mr Rs pension properly. 
I say this because it isnt SWLs role to actively manage the Mr Rs funds. Instead, as the 
pension provider and administrator, SWLs role is to provide information about fund choices 
to its customers, so that they can make an informed decision about where to invest, and 
then to invest its customers funds in line with their instructions. SWL doesnt give advice on 
the best way to invest funds, it simply acts on its customers investment instructions. 
Ive seen no evidence that SWL failed to carry out its role. And, as our investigator noted, 
this service doesnt hold businesses accountable for investment performance. This is 
because investment performance is outside of a businesss control. So I cant uphold this 
part of the complaint.
I next considered whether the name of the Pension Protector fund was fair.
Name of the Pension Protector fund
Mr R thinks the name of this fund is inappropriate, as he doesnt feel his investment in it has 
protected his pension. 
I can understand Mr Rs point, as I think the title of the fund does imply that it is intended to 
provide protection in some form. But I dont think it implies there is any guarantee. And I 
dont think that the name alone is enough to understand what that protection might be and 
how it would work. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs 2022 annual statement. This stated: 
Your plan can gain or lose value. You may get back less than you paid in. This will depend 
on the underlying investments it holds and how the markets for those investments have 
performed.
It also contained an explanation about why bond investments had had a difficult year. It said:
Bonds had a turbulent year. Government bonds and some types of corporate bonds 
delivered much lower or  and in many cases - negative returns. In part, this was because 
the threat of inflation (rising prices) as people and businesses started to spend money again. 
When inflation rises, usually interest rates do too, which drives bond yields up, and prices 
down.
The annual statement also said that Mr R should consider if the funds he was invested in  
Cash and the Pension Protector  were still right for him. And provided a link to information 
about the funds it offered. The annual statement also said that Mr R could change his 
investments at any time.
Ive also carefully reviewed the Pension Protector fund factsheet. This says the fund aims:
To provide a return consistent with the variations in market annuity rates with the aim of reducing annuity conversion risk. 
Under the Information Statement section of the factsheet, it states:
The Fund does not provide any guarantee of the level of pension in retirement or the cost of 
buying that pension. It may not be effective for those who intend to buy an inflation-linked 
pension and does not provide protection against changes in the cost of buying a pension 
that arise from changes in life expectancy.
I consider that the underlying nature of the investments within the Pension Protector fund is 
clearly explained. The factsheet also makes it clear that the fund doesnt guarantee the level 
of pension in retirement. And the annual statement also stated that the value of Mr Rs 
investments could go up or down. Overall, Ive not seen any evidence indicating that the 
Pension Protector fund said it would provide any level of guarantee, or that it would protect 
investors from a fall in value. 
However, the fund factsheet does explain that the fund aims to move in line with market 
annuity rates, which means it should move in value broadly in line with the cost of buying a 
pension. I can see that this could be seen as protection to some investors. But Ive seen no 
evidence that the fund aims to avoid any fall in value. 
Overall, I dont consider that the fund title was inappropriate. So I cant fairly uphold this part 
of the complaint. 
I also considered Mr Rs points that SWL shouldve notified him about the fall in value. 
Was SWL required to notify Mr R of the fall in value?
Mr R considers that SWL shouldve notified him about the fall in value of his pension once it 
had started to fall sharply. He feels that SWL had suggested in its advertising that it would 
look after its customers. But he didnt feel this was the case. He felt thered been a lack of 
customer care. 
Mr R also felt that the fact that his 2022 annual statement had taken three weeks to arrive 
had caused further issues. He said although the fund values it included were as of 27 May 
2022, he didnt receive it until 16 June 2022. He said if itd arrived sooner, he wouldve 
transferred. 
Mr R also considers that SWL failed in its duty of care to its customers when it didnt provide 
investment newsletters, as some other providers do. 
I acknowledge that Mr R has been distressed and disappointed by the fall in value of his 
pension fund. Im sorry this has happened to him. And I appreciate hes had to substantially 
change his retirement plans because of the fall in pension value. But I cant fairly hold SWL 
responsible for this, as Ive explained above.
SWL told this service why it couldnt notify its customers about changes in their fund values. 
It said that all funds experienced rises and falls. And that given the variations of assets, 
locations, amount invested, etc., it wouldnt be possible to inform every customer every time 
there was market volatility. SWL also said that it needed to be aware of its position as a 
pension provider and administrator. It wanted to avoid causing undue stress to its customers 
when there was potentially no need.
From what Ive seen, theres no requirement on SWL to notify its customers of a fall in value. 
I also consider that SWLs stated position is reasonable, as I agree it wouldnt be practical, or helpful, to notify its customers of falls in fund values every time that happened. I also note 
that fund values were always available to customers as they could call SWL any time to 
request them, as Mr R did on a number of occasions.
As SWL wasnt required to notify its customers of falls in value, and as this service cant tell 
a business how to operate, I cant fairly uphold this part of Mr Rs complaint. For the same 
reason, I cant tell SWL to start sending out newsletters.
Regarding the late arrival of the annual statement, I can see that the fact that Mr Rs 
statement was a little out of date by the time it reached him led to further concern about his 
falling fund value. But Mr R was also aware that he could contact SWL whenever he needed 
a current value for his pension. So Im not persuaded that the delayed arrival of the annual 
statement led to any unavoidable problems for Mr R, because he couldve always got a fund 
valuation by calling SWL, as hed done several times before. 
Im sorry that Mr Rs pension fund has gone down in value. I appreciate that this has caused 
him shock and severe disappointment. But I cant fairly hold SWL responsible for that fall. 
And Ive seen no evidence that it did anything wrong. So I cant uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman