DRN-3848019
The complaint
Mr R complains (through a representative) that Evergreen Finance London Limited 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr R took four loans from MoneyBoat between March and June 2022. Ive outlined a
summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateinstalments instalment 
amount
1 £300.00 16/03/2022 05/04/2022 4 £101.38
2 £400.00 06/05/2022 20/05/2022 4 £143.84
3 £1,500.00 22/05/2022 31/05/2022 6 £455.95
4 £1,500.00 29/06/2022 outstanding 3 £690.60
Based on MoneyBoats statement of account as of October 2022 an outstanding balance
remains due for loan 4.
Following Mr Rs complaint, MoneyBoat issued its final response letter to his representative.
In summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which included asking Mr R about
his income and expenditure and carrying out a credit search before each loan was approved.
Based on these checks, MoneyBoat was confident Mr R would be able to afford his monthly
credit commitment.
Mr R didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded MoneyBoat made a
reasonable decision to lend these loans because there wasnt anything in the information it
received that suggested Mr R could not afford the repayments he was committed to making.
He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr Rs representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision. Im summarised Mr Rs 
comments below.
Mr R took these loans within a four-month period  this shouldve been a red flag.
Mr R was reliant on these loans and so MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided them.
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I proceeded 
to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was still intending to not uphold 
Mr Rs complaint but I provided further details as to why. A copy of the provisional findings 
follows this in italics and a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoat s checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Loan 1
MoneyBoat has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr R for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Rs income has been recorded as being £2,500 per
month. Mr R also declared his monthly outgoings were £408. However, following further
checks (including a credit search which I comment on below) MoneyBoat increased his living
costs by a further £442.
This left Mr R with disposable monthly income of £1,650. This was more than sufficient for
MoneyBoat to believe Mr R could afford the largest repayment of around £101. The loan
therefore, looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to
add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement
to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.Therefore, its possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not entirely reflect the
information Mr R maybe able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of
reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat only asking for certain pieces of information. But what
MoneyBoat cant do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it
received  if necessary.
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Rs
application.
Having reviewed these results, I can see at the time this loan was approved Mr R had 5
active credit accounts with outstanding balances of £9,377. However, MoneyBoat was aware
that there hadnt been any adverse credit file data, such as a default or other insolvency
recorded within the proceeding three years. Mr R had a history of taking out previous loans
and settling them early, but at the point loan 1 was provided, I think it was reasonable for
MoneyBoat to believe that hed be able to make his commitments.
It did know that Mr R had opened five accounts within the last six months  which could be a
sign that possibly Mr R was having problems, because this was an average of nearly one
new credit account per month. And so, this could have been a sign that he was reliant on
this type of credit. But given what else MoneyBoat saw in the credit results meant it was just
about reasonable for it to have approved the loan without any further checks.
There was nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr R
had provided.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat
to have relied on the information Mr R provided along with the income and expenditure figures to 
show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, 
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about the loan.
Loan 2
Mr R repaid loan 1 much quicker than MoneyBoat had anticipated, and he returned around a
month later for a slightly larger loan to be repaid over the same period as loan 1.
MoneyBoat once again carried out the same sort of checks as it did for loan 1. After asking
Mr R about his income and expenditure information and making its adjustments from what
MoneyBoats credit report showed. Having done so, it calculated Mr R was left with £1,450
a month in disposable income. Again, this was more than enough to cover the instalment
amount of around £144.
A credit check was also carried out by MoneyBoat, and a copy of the full report has been
provided and which Ive considered. The number of new accounts opened within the last six
months had reduced, and so had Mr Rs overall debt  down to £8,414. However,
MoneyBoat was aware that in April 2022 Mr R had taken another loan from a Finance
House with payments of £387 per month.
But even taking account of the existing credit commitments, given this was a relativity small
loan taken over a modest term, I think the checks MoneyBoat did were proportionate, and it
showed Mr R could afford the repayments.
So, for the same reasons as loan 1, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about this loan.
Loan 3
Mr R again repaid loan 2 much more quickly than MoneyBoat had planned. Yet, just twodays after closing the loan Mr R returned for a much larger loan to be repaid over the longest
term to date. The monthly commitment for this loan was also, quite significant at around
£450 per month.
MoneyBoat again, calculated  using the method outlined above when discussing loans 1
and 2 - that Mr R still had £1,450 per month of disposable income. Although, Mr Rs
commitment to MoneyBoat had increased the loan still looked affordable for him.
Ive also considered the credit search results provided by MoneyBoat. Mr Rs total
indebtedness had decreased again to £7,699. The rest of the credit results were similar to
loan 2, although the loan taken in April 2022 which was mentioned above had now been
settled.
However, Mr R had yet again returned quickly for another loan and for the second time in 
May 2022. His borrowing had significantly increased and so had his monthly repayments. While I
accept the information provided to MoneyBoat (and from the credit report) suggested the
payments could be affordable I do think at this point MoneyBoat needed to go further with
the checks.
I think, it ought to have started to verify the information Mr R had provided. It was already on
notice, from its own checks that Mr R may have potentially be under reporting his
expenditure as MoneyBoat had to increase his declared expenditure. So, I think, checking
Mr Rs income and expenditure wouldve been the prudent thing to do.
MoneyBoat couldve gone about doing that a number of was, it couldve asked for
documentation from Mr R in the form of wage slips and / or copy bills, or it couldve asked to
see Mr Rs bank statements.
I accept there is no regulatory requirement for MoneyBoat to have viewed the bank
statements but in this case, I think it was proportionate to do so. Mr Rs representative has
sent us copy banks statements for the period of time shortly before this loan was approved.
So, Ive looked at the April 2022 statement to see what MoneyBoat may have discovered. I
can see a transfer into the account for around £2,300 which is likely Mr Rs income. However, through 
the course of the month there are a number of other transfers from what seems like another account 
of Mr Rs plus a number of different third parties.
However, as far as I can see, there isnt anything in the statements that wouldve made
MoneyBoat concerned that Mr R couldnt afford the repayments he was committed to
making. For example, there isnt any evidence of Mr R having lots of outstanding credit
commitments or was having problems meeting his living costs  such as gym membership.
There are, in April 2022, quite a few large transfers out of the account to third parties so 
Mr R may in response to this provisional decision wish to provide some further explanation as to
what these were for. But as it stands, had MoneyBoat carried out what I consider to be
proportionate checks it wouldve assessed that Mr R would be in a position to repay this
loan.
Loan 4
Yet again, Mr R settled loan 3 much earlier than planned, it was repaid after only 9 days.
Then a month later Mr R returned for the same amount but as this loan was to be repaid
over a shorter period of time and his monthly commitment were now around £690 per month to
MoneyBoat.
Once again, following the checks MoneyBoat believed that Mr R had around £1,450 a month
in disposable income. The credit check results also didnt show up anything else of concern,
apart from Mr R opening and closing a new credit facility in May 2022. May 2022 bank statements havent been provided so I cant comment on that payment further. But it 
did know no new credit accounts had been opened since the last search was carried out.
For the same reasons as loan 3, I do think MoneyBoat needed a complete and full
understanding of Mr Rs actual living costs and verified his income.
Once again, Mr R has provided copy bank statements from June 2022, so Ive considered
those to see what they show about Mr Rs finances at the time the loan was approved. It
seems in this month; Mr Rs income was a little down on previous months as he received
around £1,900.
However, while there was quite a bit of expenditure, I cant see any obvious payments for
living costs and or repayments to other credit commitments. However, in response to the
provisional decision Mr R may wish to shed some light on his living costs and what
transactions relate to that in the bank statements that have been provided.
As it stands, and based on what Ive seen, Im intending to conclude that MoneyBoat didnt
carry out proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4 but my interpretation of the bank statements
wouldnt lead me to say that MoneyBoat wouldve likely discovered Mr R couldnt afford
these loans.
An outstanding balance remains due, and I would remind MoneyBoat to treat Mr R fairly and
with forbearance  if necessary when working to repay the outstanding balance.
Response to the provisional decision. 
Both Mr R (and his representative) and MoneyBoat were asked to provide anything further 
for consideration as soon as possible but no later than 8 December 2022. 
Mr Rs representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, but nothing else has 
been provided for consideration. 
The Financial Ombudsman hasnt heard from MoneyBoat.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor MoneyBoat has provided anything further for consideration I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that were reached in the provisional decision. 
I still think MoneyBoat, for the reasons outlined above, needed to have carried out further 
checks into Mr Rs financial position before it approved loans 3 and 4. However, based on 
the information that has been provided and what I have to hand, had MoneyBoat carried out 
further checks it wouldve likely thought Mr R wouldve been able to afford these loan 
repayments. 
I therefore do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Id remind MoneyBoat that an outstanding balance remains due and if necessary, it needs to 
treat Mr R fairly and with forbearance. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman