DRN-3241731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim for a 
damaged TV.
Both Mr and Mrs C are named policyholders on their Fairmead policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr C, Ill refer mainly to Mr C from here onward.
Also, Mr and Mrs C bought their policy through an insurance intermediary and most of        
Mr Cs correspondence has been with this intermediary rather than directly with Fairmead. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Fairmead includes its agents, including the 
intermediary and other suppliers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a home insurance policy, underwritten by Fairmead. In March 2021, Mr C 
accidentally damaged his TV while moving it, so he made a claim on his policy. Fairmead 
arranged for the TV to be collected and delivered to its specialist who would inspect the TV 
and validate the claim.
The TV was repaired and returned to Mr C in April 2021. However, Mr C noticed fresh 
damage to the set (the bezel) and picture quality. Fairmead again arranged for the TV to be 
collected and delivered to its specialist. 
Following its specialists second inspection, Fairmead told Mr C that the TV was beyond 
economic repair. It also told him the damage was caused by wear and tear. Mr C challenged 
this and Fairmead eventually agreed to offer him a replacement. Mr C asked for a cash 
settlement as hed already bought a new TV. As Mr Cs previous TV was no longer available, 
Fairmead offered him the price of what it considered to be a suitable alternative. This was 
£549, less Mr Cs £200 policy excess. It also offered him £150 to apologise for its service 
failings.
Mr C didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. He said his old TV was worth £2,000 
(although hed paid £1,400 for it on sale eight years before) and was still in perfect condition. 
He said the TV proposed by Fairmead wasnt of the same quality. He wants Fairmead to pay 
him £1,400 as settlement or the cash price of a much higher quality replacement. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Fairmeads offer was in line with the policy terms. She thought the replacement 
TV proposed by Fairmead was of equivalent specification and the cash settlement it offered 
was reasonable. She also thought its £150 compensation offer to apologise for poor service 
was fair.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main thing for me to decide is whether Fairmeads settlement offer is fair. However,     
Mr C is also unhappy with how Fairmead dealt with his claim, so Ive looked at that first.
When Mr C complained about the fresh damage to his TV, Fairmead initially told him this 
was wear and tear. 
I dont think that can be right. Fairmeads specialist had repaired and returned the TV to     
Mr C the previous month. If there had been any issues with the bezel  or, indeed, any 
internal damage that made the TV unrepairable  I think this would have been spotted at the 
first repair. Fairmeads internal notes dont mention this and instead simply note that the 
specialist had ordered a new part for the TV. I dont think its reasonable to think that 
Fairmeads specialist would have repaired only some of the internal damage, overlooked 
damage that shortly afterwards made the TV uneconomic to repair, and/or failed to mention 
the physical damage to the set.
Im satisfied that Mr C provided enough evidence  in particular, his photos of the TV and 
before and after Fairmead sent it for the initial repairs and the packaging when the TV was 
returned to him  to show that the damage must have been caused by one of Fairmeads 
suppliers. On balance, I think its most likely the damage was caused in transit. I dont think it 
should have taken Fairmead three months to acknowledge this and offer a replacement.
Mr Cs policy schedule and sections 6 and 7 of his policy booklet show hes covered for 
accidental damage to his TV. Page 23 of the policy booklet explains how Fairmead will settle 
this type of claim: Your insurer will at its option: i) Replace as new; ii) Pay the cost to them 
of replacing as new; iii) Repair; or iv) Pay the cost to them of repair any item of contents.
Mr C doesnt think Fairmeads cash offer is good enough. He says, in summary:
His TV was in mint condition and wouldnt have depreciated in value.
His TV had many special features, including 3D. The replacement set proposed by 
Fairmead isnt of the same quality or functionality. 
He bought a high end TV and feel like we are entitled to a high end replacement 
TV. 
I appreciate that the TV Fairmead offered Mr C cost significantly less than the one he bought 
eight years before. But Fairmead is only required to replace Mr Cs TV with one of a similar 
specification. Technology develops over time and prices go down as new technology 
replaces old. So I think its normal that a modern TV of a similar standard to Mr Cs previous 
TV would be significantly lower in price. 
Fairmead sent us a table comparing the specifications of the two TVs. Ive reviewed this and 
Im satisfied that Fairmead has shown the TV it offered Mr C is at least as good as the one 
he had before. I know 3D is important to Mr C, and he sent us a link to an article that said 
some TVs still include this as a feature. However, that article is from February 2016. Ive 
read more recent articles which confirm that the major TV manufacturers dropped 3D 
functionality between 2016 and 2017. 
Ive looked at the retail price of the replacement TV and found this for sale at between £450 
and £600. So I think Fairmeads cash offer is reasonable. Under the policy terms, Fairmead 
can deduct the £200 policy excess from this. Overall, I think Fairmeads settlement offer is fair.
As I set out above, I think Fairmead handled Mr and Mrs Cs claim poorly. In particular, I 
think it took too long for Fairmead to accept that it should be liable for a replacement. I think 
Fairmeads offer of £150 to apologise for this is fair. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I think Fairmeads settlement offer for 
the TV, plus £150 compensation, is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman