DRN-2868659
The complaint
Miss H complains Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) didnt deal fairly with her 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), in relation to a surgical 
procedure which didnt go as expected.  
What happened
Miss H took out a fixed sum loan at 0% APR for £4,695 in May 2019 with Omni via a supplier 
who I will call T, to fund a surgical procedure. The surgery didnt produce the expected 
results and Miss H sought to hold Omni liable for what had happened under section 75 of the 
CCA. Omni initially said to Miss H that she needed to give T more time to fix what had gone 
wrong, but then closed her complaint when it learned Miss H was also taking legal action 
against the surgeon who had performed the surgery. After a few months Miss H stopped 
making payments towards her loan and Omni recorded a default on her credit file.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2021. In this I said that I was not 
minded to dismiss Miss Hs complaint without considering the merits, but that I did not think 
her complaint about Omni should be upheld. 
To summarise very briefly what I said about the merits of Miss Hs complaint against Omni in 
my provisional decision:
My starting point was that Miss H had taken out a loan and was therefore liable to 
make her repayments, and that she could expect non-payment to be recorded on her 
credit file.
Whether or not Omni should reduce or waive Miss Hs liability for the loan, or remove 
negative information from her credit file, depended on whether it itself had some 
liability to her for what had gone wrong with the surgery and had treated her unfairly 
in turning away her claim.
Not much evidence had been provided to support Miss Hs claims about the surgery. 
There was no expert medical evidence, no information about the outcome of her 
legal proceedings against the surgeon or about the further consultations it seemed 
she was having with T.
With such a lack of evidence I couldnt say Omni had acted unfairly in turning away 
Miss Hs section 75 claim, refusing to reduce or clear her liability for the loan, or 
adding negative information to her credit file.
Omni didnt comment on my provisional decision. Miss H got in touch and provided the 
following information:
Expert medical evidence in the form of a report from a consultant surgeon which had 
been used to support Miss Hs case against Ts surgeon.
A letter from her solicitors which explained she had settled with Ts surgeon out of 
court, and that the settlement had included compensation for pain, suffering and loss 
of amenity, future psychological therapy and any additional costs associated with 
further revision surgery (over and above the original price paid to T). 
Recent correspondence from T offering Miss H £5,400 in full and final settlement of 
her claims against it, but without admitting any liability for what had happened.
The case has now been returned to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss H for providing further evidence of what went wrong with the surgery and the 
results of her efforts to claim compensation for this. I can imagine the last two years have 
been very difficult because of what has happened.
I mentioned in my provisional decision that section 75 of the CCA allows a borrower, in 
certain circumstances, to make a claim against a lender in respect of breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations made by a supplier of goods or services. Miss Hs loan with Omni is of a 
type to which section 75 applies. In deciding whether or not Omni was right or wrong to have 
turned away Miss Hs claim, I need to consider whether T either breached its contract with 
her, or misrepresented something to her. If they did, then I also have to take into account 
any redress Miss H has already received via alternative means.
The expert evidence does appear to show a breach of contract is likely to have occurred. 
Omni can be found liable for this breach due to the operation of section 75 of the CCA. But it 
seems Miss H has received significant redress (or has an offer on the table for it) from the 
other avenues she has pursued against the surgeon and T.
Miss H has received an undisclosed amount of compensation for pain, suffering and loss of 
amenity in a legal action against the surgeon. The same legal action has provided for the 
costs of revision surgery to be covered (if necessary) and also the cost of psychological 
therapy. I dont know how much compensation Miss H has received in this way, but given it 
has been accepted, I dont think it would be appropriate of me to reopen that part of the 
matter and potentially direct Omni to pay Miss H further compensation for things she has 
already been compensated for.
More recently Miss H has received an offer from T to pay her £5,400. Although this is more 
than the original cost of the procedure, based on the correspondence from T it appears to be 
intended as a refund of what was paid for the surgery. It is more than the amount Miss H 
borrowed from Omni and more than I would be able to direct Omni write off from her loan 
agreement. It is of course up to Miss H whether or not she accepts the offer from T and its 
not something I can advise her on, but in light of it being on the table, I dont think I can fairly 
tell Omni that it needs to reduce or clear her balance. Miss H would be able to use the 
money from T to pay what she owes Omni. I gather Miss H is unhappy that T wont just 
communicate with Omni to have the loan cancelled. I can understand her annoyance, but Im 
unable to tell T to liaise with Omni over the loan.
This leaves the question of Miss Hs credit file. Given the complex circumstances of Miss Hs 
case, we recently suggested to Omni that it remove the negative information from her credit 
file and allow her to restart her repayments as normal. Omni agreed it would do this. I think this is fair. Although Miss H did not make her payments as agreed, the evidence 
shows she also didnt receive the service she was entitled to receive from T. T has now 
agreed to provide a full refund and this will allow Miss H to choose either to repay the 
instalments as originally agreed, or to use the settlement she receives from T to repay her 
remaining balance (which would leave her with some of the settlement left over). 
If Miss H were to continue not to make any repayments then Omni would be entitled to begin 
recording negative information in relation to this again
My final decision
In light of what Ive said above, I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and direct Omni Capital 
Retail Finance Limited to remove all negative information from her credit file in relation to the 
loan and offer her the option of either:
Repaying the loan in instalments as originally agreed.
Paying off the loan with the lump sum settlement she is due to receive from T 
(assuming she accepts its offer).
If no repayments are made within a reasonable time, then Omni may begin reporting non-
payment again to the credit reference agencies.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman