DRN-3432817
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Moneybarn Limited terminated her agreement.
What happened
In May 2019 Ms W was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Moneybarn.
Ms W experienced financial difficulties due to being signed off from work. She says she 
provided paperwork to Moneybarn to enter into a payment arrangement but despite using 
the email address provided the paperwork wasnt received.
Moneybarn issued a termination notice on 30 April 2021.
Ms W contacted Moneybarn in June 2021. She said she wasnt able to make extra payments 
at that time, but she wanted to keep the car.
Moneybarn said it had only received 7 payments from Ms W since May 2019 and that it felt 
that the agreement was no longer affordable for her. It said it would continue with termination 
of the agreement.
Ms W was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. She wants to keep the 
car and arrange a payment plan to clear the arrears.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that considering the extent of the 
arrears and the fact that payments had been missed throughout the duration of the 
agreement, he didnt think Moneybarn had acted unfairly or unreasonably in terminating the 
agreement.
Ms W didnt agree. She said she wanted to keep the car and repay the arrears at an amount 
she could afford.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer is experiencing financial difficulties, theres an expectation that a finance 
provider will respond positively and sympathetically. Ive looked at the available evidence to 
decide whether Moneybarn has acted fairly here.
Ive looked at the history of Ms Ws account. This shows that within a short time of the 
agreement starting in May 2019, Ms W began to miss payments.  The missed payments 
have continued throughout the agreement.
I can see that Moneybarn sent letters to Ms W about the missed payments. It made her 
aware that termination of the agreement was a possible consequence of missed payments. I 
can also see that Moneybarn agreed payment plans with Ms W on 3 separate occasions.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Moneybarn responded positively and 
sympathetically to Ms W. It tried to help Ms W by agreeing payment plans . It also continued 
to try and contact Ms W when the last payment plan failed. However, Ms W didnt keep to 
the payment plans. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to 
terminate the agreement., taking into account the level of the arrears, the failed payment 
plans and the history of missed payments throughout the agreement.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Moneybarn treated Ms W unfairly. I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman