DRN-1487248
 
The complaint
Miss Y complains that SSE Home Services Limited (SSE) have unfairly charged her to 
cancel her policy.
What happened
Miss Y held a home services policy with SSE which covered her boiler and heating system 
against mechanical breakdown. She says she was experiencing financial difficulties and so 
cancelled some of her direct debits in October 2019, including the direct debit for her home 
services policy with SSE.
Miss Y says that she contacted SSE to inform them of the fact that she was going to cancel 
her direct debit, and says that they failed to inform her that she would incur cancellation 
charges. Miss Y was subsequently unhappy to learn that SSE had charged her a 
cancellation fee of £99.88, despite having  only three months of her contract left to run, 
meaning it would have been cheaper for her to let the policy run to term. She has refused to 
pay the change as she does not think it is fair, and has since been receiving demands for 
payment. 
SSE said that Miss Y did not contact them to cancel her policy, but that it was the bank that 
notified them that she had cancelled her direct debit instruction. They say they would have 
advised her to let the policy run to term if she had contacted them as this was cheaper than 
the cancellation charge. However, given that Miss Y had cancelled her policy, and given that 
she had made one claim since the renewal of her contract, SSE said they were entitled to 
charge the cancellation fee as set out in the policy terms and conditions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She could not see any evidence that Miss Y 
had contacted SSE as she had said, and she did not think they had acted unreasonably by 
charging the cancellation fee as it was provided for in the contract terms. Miss Y disagreed, 
so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
Miss Ys policy renewed on 1 January 2019. SSE sent her a renewal notice on 11 December 
2018, which set out the renewal price and also said that a cancellation charge may apply if 
the policy is cancelled early:
How do I cancel the contract?
If we have carried out any works or you have made a claim, you will be responsible 
for the cost incurred. You may also cancel this cover at any time after the cancellation period by letting us 
knowHowever, you will be responsible to pay us any cover provided and any 
fees incurred.
The policy terms and conditions set out the above-mentioned cancellation charges in more 
detail:
Your termination rights
16.5  You may terminate this agreement at any time as long as you let us know. If 
you terminate after the cancellation period, a termination charge will be payable for the 
cost incurred and service provided for the time on cover.
The policy then sets out how the charge will be calculated if work has been completed within 
the contractual period. 
So, given that its likely Miss Y received both the renewal notice and the policy 
documentation  and given that she had made a claim prior to the contract being cancelled  
I think she ought reasonably to have known that a cancellation charge would apply upon 
early termination. I appreciate that Miss Y says she contacted SSE, and that they did not 
inform her of this, although I note that there is no evidence of any such call having been 
made. But in any event, the cancellation fee is made clear, and it was Miss Ys responsibility 
to check the terms and conditions of the policy. So I do not consider it unreasonable for SSE 
to now charge the cancellation fee in line with the terms of the contract.
I understand that Miss Y is in financial difficulty, and says that she cannot afford to make this 
payment. If this is still the case, she should get in touch with SSE as soon as possible to 
discuss an affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman