DRN-2323517
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the customer service they received from The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS), when they applied for a loan.  
What happened
On 17 February 2020, Mr and Mrs K applied online for a for loan in the amount of £12,000. 
This was an application for a personal loan and the funds were to be used towards a car 
purchase.  
Two days later, on 19 February 2020, Mr K completed another loan application. This 
application he completed through his mobile application because he thought that this would 
be a quicker way to get access to the funds. This loan application was for the same amount 
of £12,000, but Mr K completed it as a business loan through his business account. 
Considering Mr K did not need both of the loans, and he was in a hurry to get access to the 
funds, on 19 February 2020, he called RBS to explain this. During this call Mr K told RBS 
that he wanted the funds at the latest on 21 February 2020. RBS told Mr K that the quickest 
way of getting that accomplished would be if he went into an RBS branch, and they would 
forward the signed loan documents to the RBS underwriters. RBS told Mr K that this way he 
should be able to have access to the funds on Friday 21 February 2020.  
On 20 February 2020, Mr K called RBS and explained that the day before he dropped of the 
signed documents for the joint loan application, and he wanted to verify that the documents 
had been passed on from the branch to the relevant underwriting department at RBS. That 
day, during the telephone calls, there was some confusion as Mr K kept being passed 
between RBS agents that deal with business loans and RBS agents that deal with personal 
loans. One RBS agent told Mr K that it could be three to five working days for the funds to 
become available as these were the working times for the underwriting department once 
signed documents were posted through the branch. And a different agent told Mr K that it 
can take between two to four working days. Mr K was not happy with this as the day before 
he was told that if he dropped off the signed loan documents at the branch, he could have 
access to the funds on Friday 21 February 2020. 
Also, Mr K questioned RBS about why it was taking longer because when he applied 
previously for a different loan on his mobile application, he got access to the funds the same 
day. RBS explained that his joint loan application was most likely taking longer as the 
previous loan application was just in his name. They told Mr K that loan applications in a 
single name are quicker to approve provided they have all the information. So, Mr K told the 
RBS agent that he didnt want to proceed with the joint application. He said that within half 
hour of that call, hed electronically signed the business loan application which was in his 
sole name, and that the application in joint names could be cancelled. The RBS agent said 
that although he cant guarantee it, most likely the funds, from the business loan application 
Mr K signed electronically, should be available for Mr K the next day (21 February 2020). 
On 24 February Mr K still didnt have access to the loan funds so he called RBS, but the first 
call cut off while the RBS agent was looking into this for him. During the second call, RBS 
told Mr K that the loan application was being processed, but unfortunately it would not be 
done that day. On 25 February, Mr K called RBS again to say that he still had not received 
access to the funds, and it seemed that when the agent went on hold to check the status of 
the loan application that call cut off as well.
RBS told our service that when Mr K called back on 26 February 2020, they were able to get 
things resolved and got him access to the loan funds that day. RBS agent, after speaking to 
the underwriting department, explained to Mr K that they were not able to complete his 
original loan application because he applied for a personal loan under his business account 
details. So once this loan application was changed from his business name to his personal 
name everything was sorted the same day. 
On 3 March 2020, RBS wrote to Mr K and apologised for any trouble an upset caused. RBS 
said they sent a request to have the credit file search from 19 February 2020 removed. They 
explained that they cant remove the credit file search from 17 February 2020, because the 
joint application was made online by Mr and Mrs K without RBS staff intervention. They also 
offered a total of £107 for any distress or inconvenience caused. But Mr K didnt accept the 
compensation as he was not happy with the service he received from RBS. He says that on 
three to four different occasions his calls were cut off. He says he spent a significant amount 
of time trying to resolve this issue and thinks he should be compensated £250 for this. So, 
he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. The investigator thought the 
compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator, so this matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs K say they are unhappy, because on a previous occasion 
when Mr K applied for a personal loan with RBS he manged to have access to funds the 
same day. While there may be similarities between the two instances, individual 
circumstances may have changed, lending criteria or RBSs processes may be different, and 
it will also depend on what method was used to apply for the loan. But Im only looking at the 
circumstances of this complaint as Im required to look at each case on its individual merits. 
Also, I can see that on 20 February 2020, in one of the calls, RBS explained to Mr K that his 
joint loan application was most likely taking longer as applications in a single name are 
quicker to approve provided RBS have all the information needed. I think this is a reasonable 
explanation and this is also the reason Mr K decided to cancel the application that was in 
joint names, and electronically sign the business loan application which was is in his sole 
name. The RBS agent during that call told Mr K that he could not promise, but most likely the 
funds from this loan application should be available the next day, so I understand why Mr K 
was unhappy when this didnt happen. But I think it is reasonable that this application was 
not processed by RBS because it was a loan for personal use that Mr K was seeking 
through his business account.
Having said that, even though there was some confusion as Mr K did apply for two loans 
almost at the same time, I think RBS could have, at an earlier stage, done more to make Mr 
K aware of the fact that he is not able to make an application for a personal loan through his 
business account. I also listened to the calls between Mr K and RBS that took place on the 19, 20, 24 and 25 of February 2020, and I can see that Mr K was transferred back and forth 
from one department to another and some calls were prematurely terminated. And it was 
only on 26 February 2020 that Mr K finally got access to the loan funds. So, I have taken all 
the above into consideration. And Ive thought about, what Mr and Mrs K have said about the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused them. 
However, taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think that RBS total 
compensation of £107 offered is reasonable, as it provides a fair level of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs K have experienced. So, overall, I do not think it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask RBS to pay any further compensation.  
In addition to the compensation offered by RBS, they have also requested that the credit 
search on Mr Ks credit file from the 19 February 2020 be removed. I think this is fair as most 
likely Mr K would not have electronically signed that application, if RBS told him earlier that 
he needed to apply through his personal account and not his business account. 
The first application made in Mr and Mrs Ks name jointly was made by them without RBS 
agents involvement, and Mr and Mrs K decided to cancel this application as this was going 
to take longer than an application only in Mr Ks name. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask RBS to remove the search from Mr and Mrs Ks credit file made for this 
loan application. 
The other loan application that was made, was on 26 February 2020. I think this loan 
application would have always been made, because Mr K could not get the loan funds 
through his business account, and he cancelled the joint application as this was going to 
take longer than an application in his sole name. Based on that I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask RBS to remove the search on Mr Ks credit file made for this loan 
application either.
While I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs K, taking all the 
available evidence into consideration, Im not asking RBS to take any further action except to 
pay Mr and Mrs K the £107 compensation already offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
should pay Mr and Mr K the £107 they have offered to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman