DRN-1548235
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Allay Claims Ltd told him hed had a successful payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim, when this wasnt the case.
What happened
Mr L instructed Allay to make mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf. In August 2019 Allay 
received a letter from Lender L confirming a successful claim and they told Mr L hed be 
receiving a payment of £16,739.39. But Lender L had sent Allay a letter for a different 
customer. Allay didnt spot this and had mistakenly told Mr L his claim had been successful.  
Allay have apologised for their error and paid Mr L £150 by way of an apology. 
Mr L has complained that Allay told him his claim had been successful, and that he was 
going to get £16,739.39, when this wasnt the case. As a result of Allays error, Mr L spent 
some of the money he was expecting to receive.
Our investigator said Allay had made an avoidable error. He said they shouldve noticed the 
letter they received from Lender L wasnt for Mr L, and they shouldnt have told him he was 
going to receive money when he wasnt. 
But he also though its reasonable for customers to wait until they receive funds before 
spending them. Because of this he didnt think Allay were responsible for reimbursing Mr L 
the money hed spent. He thought the apology and £150 theyd offered was reasonable in 
the circumstances and didnt think they should do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen that Mr L instructed Allay to make mis-sold PPI claims against Lender L in June 
2019. Allays case notes for 14 August show Win letter received. I have invoiced client for 
£18980.89 with £2244.40 holding tax being deducted. The client will receive a net amount of 
£16736.49. Allay sent Mr L a text message on 16 August, telling him hed had a successful 
claim, and asking him to contact them about this GREAT NEWS.
The case notes also show that Mr L didnt receive any money from Lender L, and he chased 
Allay about this. Allays case note for 10 September shows the client isnt receiving the 
refund, the win letter is addressed to a different client and a completely different CMC.Allay made an error in not properly checking the letter from Lender L, which was not only not 
for Mr L it didnt relate to any claim theyd made for any of their customers. This error was 
entirely avoidable. Mr L shouldve been told that his claim had been successful.
I agree with the investigator that Mr L wasnt entitled to receive £16,736.39, so I dont think 
Allay are now responsible for paying this to him. I also agree that Mr L should take 
responsibility for spending money before hes received it, so the fact that Mr L spent money 
believing he was going to receive over £16,000 doesnt change my view.
But it wouldve come as a shock to Mr L to find out he wasnt going to receive this money a 
few weeks after he was told he was. Allay are responsible for this. But I think the apology 
and £150 theyve paid him is reasonable for this, given the impact was only for a few weeks. 
So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Allay Claims Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman