DRN-3629344
The complaint
Mr R complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (hereafter Legal and General) 
unfairly declined to settle his group income protection claim in full. 
What happened
The following is only a brief summary of what happened. 
Mr R made a successful claim through his employers group income protection policy. The 
claim had centred on Mr R being unable to perform his own occupation, a pilot (Captain), 
because of irritable bowel syndrome and urinary incontinence. And Legal and General 
reviewed it when, after a period of 12 months, the policys definition of incapacity switched 
from own occupation to suited occupation. 
Legal and General said the available evidence indicated Mr R was no longer suffering from 
symptoms of such severity that hed be prevented from either his own or a suited 
occupation. So it ceased all benefit.
Mr R complained and provided additional evidence. Legal and General partially overturned 
its decision. It said it was satisfied Mr R was unable to perform his own occupation and 
reinstated the own occupation proportion of benefit because of that. But it maintained the 
additional evidence didnt confirm Mr R was unable to perform a suited occupation.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said Legal and General hadnt acted 
unreasonably, but Mr R disagreed at length.
In summary he said that position seemed to be solely based on what Legal and General had 
said. No adjustment or consideration had been given to the significant adverse impact on 
him and his health. No skills analysis had been performed despite Legal and General relying 
on one in its conclusion of matters. He was stuck in the middle with Legal and General being 
the insurer and his employer the policyholder. The correct procedure hadnt been followed, 
and he knew of other claims that had been paid but couldnt access the details of those. 
So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R clearly feels very strongly about what has happened and I thank him for taking the time 
to set out his position. The findings Ill set out below will not address every point or argument 
made. Rather, they will focus on those matters I considered central and relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I am sorry to hear that at times Mr R has felt stuck in the middle between his employer and 
Legal and General. It wouldnt however be appropriate of me to comment on any difficulties 
he experienced with his employers levels communication or involvement with this policy or 
claim. 
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines Legal and General has a responsibility 
to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
Mr R being incapacitated in relation to his own occupation isnt in dispute here. What 
remains in dispute is whether he demonstrated incapacity in relation to the policys suited 
occupation definition. 
That definition reads:
Suited occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or 
education. 
For the purposes of this definition an occupation will not be considered to be inappropriate to 
an insured members experience, training, or education on the grounds that:
i. the pay from such occupation may be lower than that paid to the insured member 
prior to the deferred period in relation to his own job or lower than the amount of 
members benefit, or
ii. such occupation lacks the status or seniority associated with the insured members 
own job.
For this definition own job means the essential duties required of the insured member in his 
occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
So it wouldnt be enough for the available medical evidence to demonstrate that Mr R was 
unwell. It would need to demonstrate that his illnesses were preventing him from being able 
to undertake all occupations that Legal and General considered appropriate to his 
experience, training, or education. 
Without reciting everything made available, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and 
General to conclude that hadnt been demonstrated given: 
In April 2020 a transferable skills analysis (TSA) identified a number of potentially 
suitable job options for Mr R. They included non-flying roles both in and outside of 
the aviation industry, namely a pilot instructor/trainer, an aviation manager, and a 
logistics/transportation manager. I know Mr R was concerned that no TSA had taken 
place given the communication hed received from his employer on the subject, but I 
can confirm that one did, when Legal and general reviewed his claim. The TSA took 
account of Mr Rs experience, training, education, and medical conditions. And it set 
out the rationale for each job option, including identifying what would render them 
suitable for him. 
In December 2020 Legal and Generals chief medical officer (CMO) said they were 
not aware of any functional limitations that would preclude Mr R from the suited 
occupations identified. 
In February 2021 an Aviation Medical Service explained Mr Rs previous urinary 
symptoms were not currently considered a significant problem. It noted Mr R had 
been experiencing cysts or styes on his right eye too, but said hed need to have that matter explored with his ophthalmologist. And in relation to his gastrointestinal 
symptoms it said a report from Mr Rs gastroenterologist would be needed. 
In February 2021 a report from Mr Rs consultant physician and gastroenterologist 
followed. This said the results of his calprotectin stool levels were well within the 
normal range and provided a very likely diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). 
In March 2021 Mr Rs GP reiterated that Mr R had IBS and said hed reported great 
difficulty if he didnt have quick access to a toilet.
In April 2021 the consultant physician and gastroenterologist issued another report 
which set out Mr Rs condition was unlikely to lead to incapacity, was stable, and was 
not going to be further reviewed. It said Mr Rs condition would be characterised by 
episodes of exacerbation and triggered by factors such as incurrent illness, 
antibiotics, or stressful situations. But it also said that while the fear of fecal 
incontinence and urgency was characteristic in IBS, it was of itself unlikely to lead to 
incapacity. And, the negative social and psychological consequences and fear of 
incontinence could lead to stress and might be a distraction and safety issue in 
Mr Rs occupation. 
Again I acknowledge I havent recited everything made available, but collectively the 
available evidence in this complaint showed that potentially suitable job roles had been 
identified for Mr R. It indicated that Mr Rs illness would prevent him from performing his own 
occupation but did not suggest it would prevent him from performing any suited occupations. 
And it set out that although still present, his illness was stable and no longer under specialist 
review.
I know Mr R has raised concerns about policy procedures and says he knows other claims 
were paid in similar circumstances  especially on a proportionate basis where people 
returned to work. But my role here has been to consider the circumstances of this complaint. 
Although Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and General 
to find that he hadnt satisfied the definition of suited occupation. And so, it follows that I 
dont think it unreasonably declined to pay the suited occupation percentage of benefit 
either.  
Should Mr R be wanting to consider a return to work, Id encourage him to discuss this with 
both his employer and Legal and General in the first instance. This however is not a matter I 
am considering here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman