DRN-2707974
Complaint
Miss H says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Miss H bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
On 4 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I noticed that 
on one of the lines I used the incorrect initial when referring to Miss H. Ive now corrected 
this in the extract below. In my provisional decision I explained that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further clarification and gave   
Miss H and Barclays an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said: 
Miss H and Barclays agree that the PPI was taken out in a branch. At the time of the sale, 
Barclays had to make it clear to Miss H that the policy was optional, and it had to gain her 
consent before applying PPI to her account. Looking closely at Miss Hs credit card 
application form, under the Payment Protection Insurance section I can see Miss H was 
given the option of ticking next to Yes, I do require Payment Protection Insurance. On   
Miss Hs application form, there is a tick indicating she wanted it. Miss H has also signed the 
application form agreeing to its contents.
Ive noted that on the application form, Miss H also had the option of selecting whether she 
wanted other optional benefits, such as Barclaycard Card Protection. But Miss H didnt 
select this. This suggests Miss H was aware of the fact that she choice when it came to any 
of the additional products listed on the application form. So, on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that Miss H agreed to the PPI knowing she had a choice.
Miss H says she didnt receive any advice or recommendation from Barclays when she took 
out the PPI. Barclays on the other hand says it would have recommended the PPI to Miss H. 
This means Barclays had to check the policy was right for her. 
Miss H had previously informed us that she was self-employed at the time of the sale, which 
was different to the information she had given to Barclays. As being self-employed would 
likely have had an impact on my consideration of the complaint, I confirmed with Miss H her 
employment status at the time of the sale. Miss H has confirmed that she was employed. 
Taking this and Miss Hs other circumstances at the time into consideration, it seems the PPI 
would have been right for her. I am satisfied she was eligible for cover and I cant see that 
she would have been affected by anything the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing 
medical conditions.
In addition, Miss H says she would have been entitled to statutory sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she didnt have any savings or 
other means she could have used to cover her credit card repayments if she ever fell on 
hard times. The PPI would have paid out in addition to the statutory sick pay she wouldve 
received and also would have paid a benefit if she became unemployed. So, I think the PPI 
would have been useful to Miss H if she ever became too unwell to work or lost her job. It 
also looks like it was affordable. It follows that dont think Barclays was wrong to recommend 
the PPI to her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Miss H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. 
Both Miss H and Barclays have responded and confirmed they do not have any further 
information for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither Miss H nor Barclays provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons. So I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman