DRN-4323625
The complaint
Mrs R is represented. Her complaint was part of a collective complaint about a number of
investment related accounts held with Henderson Rowe Ltd (HR). The collective complaint
was then split and separated.
This decision is only about her accounts and about the following  she says HR failed to
execute an email instruction on 11 March 2022 to liquidate a holding in her Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) and to liquidate her jointly held General Investment Account (GIA) 
prior to an impending transfer; that it had done nothing as of 14 March 2022; and that on 15 
March 2022 it eventually took action. 
HR concedes responsibility for the execution delay between 11 and 15 March. It has 
calculated financial loss and redress. Mrs R and her representative disagree with the 
calculation and redress amount. They say the calculation omits the ISA holding and they 
disagree with the calculation prices. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed with HRs approach towards 
its compensation analysis.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with this conclusion. He highlighted that the ISA holding 
had not been addressed, he questioned the price point (at 11.30am on 11 March) used by 
HR in its calculations and he disputed the prices it used in considering financial loss in the 
GIA. He said they were non-market prices and that relevant market-based pricing shows a 
higher financial loss.
In support of this her representative presented his own calculations of financial loss based 
on closing mid prices on 11 March. He acknowledged that, in terms of redress, a range of 
price time points on 11 March and price types (the days low, closing or average prices, for 
example) could be used  which he said the Ombudsman can consider in determining the 
complaint. However, he argues that it is unacceptable for HR to use prices that did not exist 
in the market on 11 March at 11.30am.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view, and she repeated that HR had used 
the approach towards its redress consideration that we would expect it to use. The matter 
was referred to an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HR accepts that it delayed the liquidation of the jointly held GIA, that it ought to have 
executed it on 11 March when instructed to do so, and that it did not act until 15 March. It 
has calculated financial loss and redress for the delayed liquidation on the following basis:
It says the instruction email of 10.37am on 11 March would have been executed by 
11.30am on that date.
It calculated the total proceeds that would have been generated based on the bid 
prices at that time, and compared that to the total proceeds generated on 15 March.
It found that some sales in the jointly held GIA had been disadvantaged by a price 
difference during the delay, but overall (considering all the sales) the delay had led to 
a net gain. However, as gesture of goodwill it offered the total liquidation value 
difference, for the negatively affected sales, in compensation.
As stated above, Mrs R and her representative challenge the price point of 11.30am (on 11 
March) and the actual prices used in HRs calculations. They have invited us to review this 
and to consider their alternative calculation of redress. A number of price points and price 
types might be used for the calculation. However, we must not lose sight of the specific 
purpose that redress should serve in this case. Redress is aimed at calculating whether (or 
not) the sales that should have happened on 11 March would have achieved higher 
proceeds than what was achieved on 15 March. As the investigator said, this purpose is 
reflected in the approach HR used in its calculations.
The exercise cannot be precise, because no-one can determine exactly when the liquidation 
on 11 March would have happened, or the associated sale prices. Mrs Rs representative 
favours the use of day-closing prices and he questions why HR selected 11.30am. I 
understand his concerns. He refers to price charts showing this particular time as being 
unfavourable for prices. However, I have not seen enough evidence to say this was/is HRs 
motivation for selecting the time. Instead, I find its explanation  about 11.30am being when 
(just under an hour after the instruction) the sales would probably have been executed  to 
be plausible. The same explanation refers to time being used to input and authorise the 
associated trades, and then time for execution by its custodian. These could have been 
done within an hour.
Investment transactions are inherently time sensitive and firms are commonly expected to 
provide timely execution. The instruction at 10.37am did not specify liquidation at closing, or 
at any particular later time, so it is fair to conclude that HR ought to have applied such timely 
execution. Therefore, I am not persuaded to prefer a day-closing price/execution point (many 
hours after the instruction) over a price/execution point within an hour of the instruction.
On balance and for the above reasons, I agree with the price/execution point of 11.30am on 
11 March.
The sales that should have happened on 11 March would have been subjected to the 
relevant market bid prices (in the applicable bid/offer price spread(s)). HR says the bid prices 
are exactly what it used in its calculations. It confirmed that its calculations were based on 
relevant published bid prices from FactSet (the online financial data resource).
With regards to the argument about HR using non-market prices, it does not appear that the 
price chart evidence cited by Mrs Rs representative shows the relevant bid/offer price 
spreads (or two-way quotes) as of 11.30am on 11 March. They appear to show single chart 
pricing. This might explain the differences that he refers to. Given that two-way quotes 
usually exists around the associated single chart price, this could be the reason why he has 
been unable to match the chart pricing with the bid pricing used by HR.
Based on HRs evidence for its calculations, I share the investigators view that it has used 
the calculation approach we would expect it to use. However, I understand Mrs Rs and her 
representatives concern about accuracy in the calculation (and of the compensation offer). 
Their point about omission of the ISA holding appears to be supported by HRs evidence of its calculations. The holding is not included in it. I made a similar finding in relation to a 
separate ISA holding in one of the other linked complaints, which I have already determined. 
In that decision I noted the need for HR to resolve the issue by verifying all the investments 
that existed in the relevant ISA as of 11.30am on 11 March 2022 and to apply the same 
financial loss and redress calculation/analysis in this respect. 
HR responded and agreed with the finding. I expect that it has probably identified that the 
same issue exists in Mrs Rs case with regards to her ISA holding, and that it will probably 
be taking the same resolution steps in her case. For the sake of clarity, this means I rest this 
decision on Mrs Rs case partly on the understanding and expectation that HR is already in 
the course of  or will be  recalculating, without undue delay, financial loss and redress for 
the delayed sale of her ISA holding, this being a calculation that it appears to have 
previously omitted.
I also consider that Mrs Rs and her representatives concern about price accuracy would 
probably be addressed by full disclosure from HR of the source price information/data it 
used/uses in calculating financial loss and redress. I recommend that HR provides this to 
them without undue delay.
My decision is to not uphold Mrs Rs complaint because I consider that HR has already 
followed the correct approach in calculating financial loss and redress for her jointly held 
GIA; I expect that it will extend its calculation to her ISA holding as stated above; it is my 
understanding that HR continues to stand to pay what it previously offered; it is also 
expected that it will pay Mrs R any financial loss and redress resulting from the extended 
(ISA holding related) calculation; and it is also expected that it will be providing full disclosure 
to her of the source price information/data it has used/uses for its calculations. Otherwise, 
based on the facts, I would have upheld the complaint and issued HR with orders on redress 
(inclusive of an order to fully disclose source price information/data for its calculations).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman