DRN-2268162
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded incorrect information on her credit file 
which has had a significant affect on her ability to get finance and credit.
What happened
Miss S says that HSBC has recorded incorrect information on her credit file for a number of 
years. She says that caused problems in getting car finance and in getting finance for a 
hearing aid purchase for her father. She also says the mistake affected a mortgage 
application. Miss S says HSBC has paid £150 compensation and paid compensation for the 
difference in the cost of the car finance but neither amount is enough. 
HSBC has apologised for what took place and has amended Miss Ss credit file. It has paid 
£150 compensation and paid just over £1,038 for the extra car finance cost which it says it 
agreed with Miss S. HSBC says it correctly reported adverse information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) before this issue.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with it 
by apologising, paying a fair and reasonable compensation amount and by updating the 
credit file. The investigator thought that it impossible to be sure about the reasons for other 
declined finance applications without evidence from those lenders and didnt think Miss S 
had provided that evidence.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says its impossible for her to get any further evidence 
and says the compensation isnt enough. She also says it should not have taken four years 
to sort out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Miss S will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly 
she feels about has taken place.
There is no question here that HSBC made a mistake by not reporting the correct 
information to the CRAs. I am sure that incorrect information had an impact on Miss Ss 
credit score, and I have no doubt she spent some considerable time trying to find out what 
took place and in getting HSBC to update the mistake. But Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly 
apologised for what took place and paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of 
£150. Im also satisfied that HSBC has also paid just over £1,038 which is a figure it seems 
to have agreed with Miss S for the extra car finance cost. And I dont think it possible to be 
sure what the exact impact HSBCs actions had on Miss Ss credit score.
I appreciate that Miss S says HSBC should also pay for what took place for the hearing aid 
purchase. But I think it was Miss Ss family member that was impacted by the rejected 
finance as he bought the item himself and there is no overall loss caused by the rejected 
credit application. 
I also appreciate Miss S says HSBCs actions caused difficulties with a mortgage 
application. But I think it is impossible to be sure on balance why such an application was 
rejected without evidence from the lender. I accept that Miss S may not be able to get such 
evidence. But I think overall that lenders and credit providers look at a number of factors 
before deciding to lend and do not just consider the information contained on a credit file. I 
can also see that HSBC says there was adverse information reported to the CRAs before 
these issues in any event and I think it difficult to be sure how that information affected later 
credit applications.
Overall, I accept Miss S is unlikely to accept my decision, but I think HSBC has acted fairly 
here by paying appropriate compensation and by correcting the mistake. I think this brings 
an end to what we can do informally to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman