DRN-3198866
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 2 February 2018, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. He paid an advance payment of £7,000 and the agreement was 
for £6,000 over 36 months; with an initial repayment of £166.55 and 35 monthly repayments 
of £166.67. At the time the car was almost two years old and had done just over 23,700 
miles.
Mr S contacted Santander on 14 October 2019 to advise them he was having a problem with 
the car  there was a tapping noise form the engine which Ms S believed was because of oil 
starvation. But Santander didnt think that any problems with the car were present when it 
was supplied to Mr S. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator agreed there was a fault with the car but said there was no evidence that 
this was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr S. And they said that 
Santander didnt need to take any action.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said the oil warning light came on after hed 
driven the car for a few thousand miles. He also said that hed spoken to a few engineers, 
who told him the engine wasnt pumping the oil correctly, and that this wouldnt show up of a 
service or MOT  it would only show up when the engine started knocking. 
Mr S provided a report from an engine repair specialist, who said the oil starvation was due 
to excess silicone glue on the sump, which was suspected to have resulted from a previous 
repair. And Mr S said this repair mustve happened before he took possession of the car. He 
contacted the previous owner who said theyd had problems with the cars engine, that itd 
been in for repair on numerous occasions, and they eventually exchanged the car because 
of the ongoing engine issues.
Following the evidence Mr S provided, a second investigator reviewed everything. And they 
contacted the supplying dealership, who confirmed theyd carried out historical repairs on the 
car. But they werent prepared to provide any information about these repairs.
The investigator agreed there was a fault with the car and, on the balance of probabilities, 
thought it was likely this fault existed before the car was supplied to Mr S. And they didnt 
think it was reasonable for an engine of this age and mileage to fail. So, they thought 
Santander needed to do something to put things right.
The investigator said that, because Mr S wasnt able to use the car from October 2019 
(when the engine failed) to July 2020 (when Mr S was able to afford to have it repaired), 
Santander should refund the payments hed made during this period, plus interest. The 
investigator also said that, on receipt of proof of what Mr S paid for the engine repairs, 
recovery, and diagnostic costs, Santander should also refund this, plus interest. And they 
should pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
Santander contacted the dealership, who said Mr S had the car for around 18 months before 
he raised any issues. And, because Mr S hadnt been able to provide proof of any service or 
maintenance, they believed the engine had failed due to a lack of maintenance, and maybe 
due to a lack of oil. Santander also said that they didnt believe the evidence was sufficient to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. So, theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the second investigator, and 
for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Santander are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr S to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Mr S has provided copies of breakdown reports dated 3 October and 7 October 2019. At the 
time hed had the car for around one year and eight months. The breakdown report for 3 
October 2019 is for a knocking noise from the engine, which the breakdown mechanic 
suspected was possible bearings. 
The breakdown report for 7 October 2019 was when the engine seized, and the breakdown 
mechanic suspected the crankshaft bearings. At the time of this breakdown, the car had 
done 28,754 miles. I havent seen anything to confirm the exact mileage of the car when it 
was supplied to Mr S. But the service record shows the mileage as 23,679 miles on 14 
December 2017  around two months before the car was supplied to Mr S. This means that, 
at the time the engine seized, Mr S had done no more than 5,075 miles. And the car had 
done less than 30,000 miles in total.Mr S has provided a report from an engine repair specialist, dated 21 July 2020. This says, 
removed and stripped engine, engine failed due to their been way to much silicone glue on 
sump, there for glue had broken off and blocked oil gallary to cylinder head {sic}. And, on 31 
July 2020, Mr S was invoiced £4,468 for the engine repair.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied there was a fault with the car. And Im also 
satisfied this fault was caused by excess silicone glue on the sump causing the engine to be 
starved of oil. Which resulted in the engine seizing. But I dont have any evidence of when 
excess silicone glue was put on the sump, or if this was because of a repair. Mr S says he 
didnt have any repair done, but he cant evidence that. And if that was the case then I 
wouldnt expect him to be able to prove that he didnt have something done.
However, Mr S has been in touch with the previous owner of the car. Ive seen a letter from 
the previous owner, dated 10 August 2020, where they asked Mr S to contact them and they 
would tell you about the engine problems. In a follow up email dated 14 August 2020, the 
previous owner confirmed they had endless problems with the engine management light 
coming on. And the dealership kept replacing parts and saying it was a sensor. Ive also 
seen a copy of the V5C document, and the previous owner listed on this document and the 
person who Mr S was in contact with match.
The supplying dealership have acknowledged they did historic repairs on the car. But when 
asked, theyve said they cant tell us what these repairs were or provide us with any 
information. They say that this is because the repairs have been the subject of a previous 
complaint that was investigated through Trading Standards.
However, the dealership believes the problems with the engine are because Mr S failed to 
maintain and/or service the car. And they think he mayve driven the car without 
any/sufficient oil. And Santander dont think the evidence shows there was a fault with the 
car before it was supplied to Mr S.
The service book for the car shows it was serviced at the supplying dealership on 14 
December 2017. And it also shows Mr S had the car serviced at an independent garage on 
19 November 2018, around nine months after hed been supplied with the car. The recorded 
mileage at the time of this service was 26,328  so the car had done 2,649 miles since it was 
supplied to Mr S, and would only do a further 2,426 miles before the engine seized. Ive also 
seen an invoice that, on the same day, the oil and filter were changed in the car  the invoice 
is for labour only and says that Mr S supplied the parts. And neither of the breakdown 
reports indicate a lack of oil.
Im therefore satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr S did service the car, and that 
the engine failure wasnt because of either a lack of maintenance or a lack of oil. And I 
remain satisfied the engine failed because of excess silicone glue on the sump.
When I dont have all the evidence I need, as is the case here with the silicone glue, then I 
must reach a conclusion based on what I think most likely happened. As the previous owner 
has said the supplying dealership tried to repair the car on a number of occasions, and 
because the supplying dealership have confirmed this, Im satisfied that if too much glue was 
on the sump as a result of a previous repair, then this repair was more likely than not done 
by the supplying dealership for the previous owner - before the car was supplied to Mr S.
However, if the dealership become willing to provide evidence of the repairs they did, and 
these dont show a sump repair; then Im satisfied it was more likely than not that the excess 
silicone glue was added either at an earlier point in time or as part of the manufacturing 
process. This is because of the problems the previous owner had with the cars engine. And 
this would also have taken place before the car was supplied to Mr S.So, I think that the car was most likely supplied to Mr S with an excess of silicone glue. 
Which means the circumstances that caused the engine to seize was present when the car 
was supplied. And this makes the car not of a satisfactory quality.
Ive also considered durability. Its not disputed that the engine seized after the car had done 
less than 30,000 miles. While a cars engine suffers from wear and tear through usage and 
would not be expected to last indefinitely; no reasonable person would expect the engine to 
fail and need replacing after doing so few miles. And I also consider that a regularly serviced 
engine, as was the case here, is less likely to fail than an engine that hasnt been 
maintained. So even if it were to be shown that the engine didnt fail because of the silicone 
glue, and failed for another reason, then Im satisfied that the engine wasnt reasonably 
durable. Which makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Given the above, Santander must do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr S has confirmed that he no longer wants to reject the car now its been repaired. Because 
of this, I think that Santander should refund Mr S the costs of the repairs to the car, 
alongside any associated recovery and diagnostic costs. And, they should refund his 
payments while he didnt have use of the car.
Mr S also spent a lot of time and effort in trying to prove to Santander that the car was faulty, 
as well as being without the car for a substantial time, and he suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result. I think its fair that Santander should also compensate him for this. 
So, Santander should:
upon receipt of proof of payment, refund Mr S the costs of the repair to the engine of 
the car, plus any associated recovery and diagnostic costs;
refund the payments Mr S made from October 2019 to August 2020, while the car 
was off the road awaiting repair; 
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Mr S 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr S an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman