DRN-3404191
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC agreed to extend the term of a part repayment, part 
interest mortgage he holds jointly with his former partner. He didnt consent to that.
What happened
Mr C and his former partner (Ms B) have a joint mortgage. The mortgage was originally 
taken out in 2007 with Cheltenham & Gloucester. The mortgage was due to end in 2017. 
Mr C says he and Ms B separated around 2008 and he moved out of the mortgaged 
property in 2010. Since then, Ms B has lived in the property and maintained the mortgage 
payments.
In January 2016, Lloyds wrote to Mr C and Ms B reminding them that their mortgage term 
was due to end in 12 months. Ms B contacted Lloyds and asked it to extend the term of the 
mortgage to help her with her finances. Lloyds has provided evidence to show that it tried to 
phone Mr C to discuss an extension in November 2016, but there was no response. So it 
tried to phone him again and wrote to him at the address it held for him in relation to the 
account.
Lloyds didnt get a response from Mr C so it considered Ms Bs request at an internal risk 
forum. Lloyds tried to contact Mr C again by phone in December 2016. It wrote to Mr C again 
on 9 December 2016. In that letter it asked him to contact it within 30 days. The letter went 
on to say that if Lloyds didnt hear back from Mr C it would look to remove him from the 
mortgage or agree to extend the mortgage term as Ms B had requested.
Mr C didnt get in touch with Lloyds so the matter was discussed again at its risk forum. In 
January 2017 Lloyds extended the term mortgage for five years. 
In May 2021 Mr C contacted Lloyds to say that he was unhappy that Ms B was given a term 
extension without his consent. He also said he didnt live at the mortgaged property any 
longer and that he wanted to be removed from the mortgage.
In its final response Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had tried to contact 
Mr C to get his consent for the term extension but was unsuccessful, and it was agreed at a 
risk forum that the extension could proceed.
Mr C remained unhappy so he complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said 
the term extension had a negative impact on him - he was unable to re-mortgage a property 
in his own name because of stamp duty issues and because he wasnt able to borrow more 
money. He said he does his personal banking with Lloyds and it has had his correct address 
since 2010, so he thinks it couldve done more to contact him.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong, so 
she didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint was upheld.
Mr C remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute in this case that the extension of the term of the mortgage was carried 
out without Mr Cs consent, so Ill begin by saying that I understand why hes unhappy about 
what happened. Generally any changes to a mortgage contract must be agreed by all 
parties. However, there can be exceptions in unique circumstances. 
Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter is clear. Im mindful of that, and what he has told 
us about the impact of the mortgage extension had on him.
Im also mindful that Ms B isnt a party to this complaint. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to go into detail about Ms Bs circumstances when she asked for the mortgage to be 
extended. However, I think its helpful to say here that the evidence shows that Ms B was 
unable to repay the mortgage at the end of its original term in January 2017. She had made 
Lloyds aware of her financial and personal circumstances and had been clear that she 
wanted Lloyds to extend the mortgage. Ms B was the only person paying the mortgage, and 
neither Ms B, not Lloyds were in contact with Mr C about the mortgage. I also can see that 
Lloyds had tried (and failed) to contact Mr C, so it wasnt able to speak to him about the 
extension or ask him to help repay the mortgage he was responsible for - jointly and 
severally. 
If a borrower is unable to repay a mortgage at the end of its term, there are various steps 
that a lender needs to take. The regulator of the financial services industry introduced rules 
setting out how lenders should treat borrowers in situations like Mr Cs and Ms Bs. Under 
those rules, Lloyds had to consider whether extending the mortgage term and repayment 
method was in Mr Cs and Ms Bs best interests. The rules also say that lenders should 
engage with borrowers at the earliest opportunity to discuss how the mortgage would be 
repaid.
Despite what Mr C has told us about the impact of the extension on him, I think it was in his 
best interests (as well as Ms Bs) for Lloyds to have extended the term of the mortgage. I say 
that because bearing in mind the circumstances Ive set out above. I think it was likely that if 
Lloyds didnt extend the term of mortgage, the mortgage wouldnt have been paid off at the 
end of its term, and Lloyds may have had to commence legal proceedings to try to recover 
the outstanding debt. That would have had an substantial adverse impact on Mr C as well as 
Ms B. Mr Cs credit file wouldve have been negatively affected by this. Negative information 
would have been recorded on his credit file for six years, affecting his ability to get credit. 
There was also a possibility that the property could have been repossessed.
Mr C has told us that he would have agreed to a one-year extension to allow Ms B to sell the 
property. So I can understand why he thinks that if Lloyds was going to extend the mortgage 
term, it should only have extended it for one year. However, having considered all the 
evidence available to me in this case, including Ms Bs circumstances in 2017, I dont think 
Lloyds acted unreasonably when it extended the mortgage for five years. As I said above, 
Lloyds had to consider what would be in Ms Bs and Mr Cs best interests at the time.
I appreciate that Mr C is likely to disagree with me about this. He has told us that Lloyds 
shouldve done more to contact him before it extended the mortgage in 2017. So I will now consider this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that it phoned Mr C on the landline number it had 
recorded for Mr C on the mortgage account. It also wrote to him in connection with the term 
extension.
Having considered the information Lloyds has provided, Im satisfied that Lloyds held a 
landline number for Mr C in connection with the mortgage account, but not a mobile number. 
So I understand why it used that number to try to contact Mr C about the term extension. 
Mr C says Lloyds knew hed moved from the address the landline was attached to, so he 
doesnt understand why Lloyds tried to contact him there. He also told us that he banks with 
Lloyds and it had his mobile phone number in connection with that. So I can understand why 
he thinks it should have used his mobile phone number to phone him in connection with the 
term extension. However, Lloyds has told us that its mortgage and banking systems arent 
integrated, so his mobile phone number wasnt available to it in connection with the 
mortgage. 
I appreciate how frustrating that must be for Mr C. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to comment on Lloyds systems. So I cant say that Lloyds made a mistake when it tried 
to contact him on the phone number that was recorded on his account.
In any case, Im persuaded (having considered Lloyds contact notes) that in addition to 
phoning him, Lloyds wrote to Mr C in 2016 about the term extension at his current address. 
That address had been added to the mortgage account in January 2013.
Mr C is very suspicious about the evidence Lloyds have provided. He says he would have 
phoned Lloyds from his mobile phone to update his address in 2013, so he has questioned 
why that mobile phone number wasnt added to the mortgage account then. 
Mr C says Lloyds cant prove that it wrote to him about extending the term of the mortgage 
as it cant provide a copy of the letters it says it sent to him in around that time. He thinks its 
very unlikely that all Lloyds letters wouldve have gone astray. So he doesnt think it wrote to 
him at his current address as Lloyds says it did. Mr C has been clear that he didnt receive 
any letters from Lloyds in connection with the mortgage, or any mortgage statements. He 
has told us that he wouldve responded to Lloyds if it had written to him because he wanted 
Lloyds to remove him from the mortgage.
I appreciate Mr Cs position, but I have no reason to think that Lloyds hasnt been honest 
with us about its contact with Mr C. It isnt clear to me why Mr C didnt receive the post 
Lloyds says it sent Mr C. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Lloyds responsible for 
any issues Mr C might have had with his post around the time the letters were sent. Mr C 
has told us that he could see details of the mortgage on Lloyds banking app, but he didnt 
realise the mortgage was coming to an end in late 2016/2017.
I understand that Mr C has many unanswered questions about exactly what happened in this 
complaint, and I appreciate that he is likely to be unhappy with my decision. However, taking 
this matter as a whole and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly 
when it extended Mr C and Ms Bs mortgage for five years in 2017. So I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman