DRN-2438592
The complaint
Mr D has complained to Phoenix Life Assurance Limited about delays which he says it 
caused in the transfer of his personal pension policies to another pension provider. Mr D 
has said that, as a result, hes incurred additional charges on his mortgage as hed been 
planning to repay his mortgage with the pension funds.
Mr D has also said that Phoenix Life has given him inconsistent information about an
earmarking order which has caused him to incur unnecessary legal expenses.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this case on 27 October 2020, a copy of which is set out 
below, beginning with the background to the complaint:
Mr D had two PPPs with Phoenix Life, both of which had had an earmarking order for the
benefit of Mr Ds ex-wife attached to them since May 2000.
Mr D contacted Phoenix Life in October 2017 to request a retirement pack, as he was 
considering transferring his pension funds into a flexi drawdown arrangement. Phoenix Life 
complied with Mr Ds request in the same month, but didnt make it clear that an earmarking 
order applied to both policies.
Unfortunately, when Phoenix Life received an transfer request from another provider, this 
meant that it couldnt proceed with the transfer. It informed Mr D of this on 30 October 2017, 
but only quoted one policy number. It also said that, due to the earmarking order, Mr Ds ex- 
wife would be entitled to 50% of the taxable lump sum, rather than just the tax free cash.
Mr D contacted Phoenix Life to query this, but although it said that it would call him back, 
it didnt. It sent a further letter on 6 November 2017, confirming that both policies were 
subject to a earmarking order, which was then followed by a further letter on 9 November 
2017, which said that, due to legislative changes in 2015 and the wording of the 
earmarking order, his only option at that time was encashment of the policies  which 
would mean that he was liable to pay the full amount of tax due to HMRC (other than on 
the 25% tax free amount).
Phoenix Life said that the only way to avoid this would be to obtain an amended court 
order, for which it suggested he seek independent legal advice.
Mr Ds solicitor wrote to Phoenix Life on 29 November 2017, enquiring as to why the 2015 
legislative changes would apply to the earmarking order which took effect in May 2000.
Phoenix Life said that, although the order originally entitled Mr Ds ex-wife to 50% of the tax
free cash, due to the pension freedoms introduced in 2015, she would now be entitled 
to 50% of the entire fund value. It said this was why it needed her consent.
The solicitor acting for Mr Ds ex-wife wrote to Phoenix Life on 9 April 2018 to confirm 
that she agreed to receive 50% of the tax free cash, subsequent to which Phoenix Life 
wrote to Mr D on 29 June 2018 with a new transfer value. There was, however, no 
mention of the earmarking order, and so these needed to be resent.
Two more transfer requests were then made by Mr D, the first on 12 July 2018, which 
Phoenix Life declined to process as it hadnt confirmed the liability of the earmarking 
order. The second was then made on 18 October 2018 and Phoenix Life transferred the 
fund on 6 November 2018.
Mr D complained to Phoenix Life on the above detailed basis, but didnt receive a formal 
response until May 2019. Phoenix Life upheld Mr Ds complaint, conceding that the 
standard of service hed received had been poor and that it should have been clearer in its 
communication with him.
It said that it had contacted his new pension provider to determine whether the delays 
in transferring his pension funds had caused him financial loss. It also offered to pay 
him
£4,218 towards his legal expenses (totalling £5,898), saying that he would have needed 
to incur some of these in seeking conformation from his ex-wife as to the interpretation 
of the earmarking order, as applied in light of the 2015 change in legislation. It said it 
would also consider further awards in respect of losses incurred on the mortgage and 
other debts if evidence relating to these could be provided.
Phoenix Life also offered Mr D £1,000 by way of an apology, which included £500 for 
the delays in responding to his complaint.
Dissatisfied with Phoenix Lifes proposal, Mr D referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator considered the matter and concluded the following:
He thought that the offer in respect of the solicitors costs was proportionate. He 
said it would have been reasonable for Phoenix Life to insist that Mr Ds ex wife 
consented to the interpretation of the earmarking order in the context of the recent 
change in legislation and the different manner in which Mr D wished to take his 
benefits, and that this would in any case have incurred costs for Mr D.
He hadnt seen evidence of the additional mortgage costs, and so 
couldnt recommend an award in respect of this.
He did however, think that the £1,000 award should be doubled, given the 
trouble and upset which Mr D had been caused by the delays.
Mr D disagreed, however, saying that he still hadnt heard from Phoenix Life as to 
whether hed been caused financial loss as a result of the delay in transferring his 
pension funds. He said it was also his understanding that he could be awarded up to 8% 
of the fund value as compensation, but the investigators recommendation fell far short of 
that.
The investigator made further enquiries of Phoenix Life as to the outcome of its own 
investigation into the matter of financial loss due to the delays in transferring the 
pension funds.
He then issued a further adjudication, in which he said the following:
He thought the transfers could have happened on 26 March 2018 rather than 5 
November 2018. Payments of £206,196.05 and £59,270.28 were sent on that later date to the receiving provider. Had this happened on 26 March 2018, 
respective payments of £193,226.65 and £55,581.56 would have been sent.
The investigator said that Mr D had therefore not been financially disadvantaged 
by the delay.
But he still thought that, as the delay should not have occurred, the same award
£2,000 in respect of trouble and upset should be paid.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators further conclusions, however, saying that the 
FTSE 100 had increased significantly between March and November 2018 and that the 
figures used for comparison werent representative of any true loss.
He also said that there was around £315,000 of guaranteed pension funds which were 
transferred, so over £500,000 in total, rather than the smaller sum the investigator had 
cited.
The investigator looked into this, and issued his further findings as follows:
An additional benefit guarantee amount of £303,843.06 derived of the industry 
wide pension review existed. Phoenix Life had effectively guaranteed to match the 
occupational pension scheme benefits which Mr D had lost as a result of 
transferring these benefits to a PPP many years previously.
This benefit guarantee was crystallised on 13 February 2017 and so additional 
interest had been added to produce a transfer sum of £315,996.78 on 31 
October 2018.
But the investigator didnt think that the benefit guarantee funds formed part of Mr 
Ds other two pension policies, and so shouldnt be factored in to the loss 
calculation for the delays incurred in their transfer to the new provider.
Mr D submitted further points. He said that, with regard to the earmarking order, Phoenix 
Life hadnt been willing to listen to his view on why his ex-wifes entitlement remained at 
half of the tax free cash, instead suggesting that he seek legal advice. His view was swiftly 
endorsed by his solicitor, and he therefore remained of the view that the entirety of his 
legal costs should be reimbursed.
As to the sum representing the benefit guarantee, Mr D said that hed received 
confirmation in 1999, when the guarantee was offered, that it would form part of his 
pension plan. There was no mention of it being a separate compensation sum.
More recently, Phoenix Life has confirmed that the benefit guarantee amount should have 
been included in the comparison to determine whether Mr D had been caused losses by 
the transfer delays.
But due to Mr Ds disagreement on the matter of the amount of legal expenses to 
be reimbursed, the matter has in any case been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To firstly address the matter of the legal costs incurred by Mr D, Ive noted what Phoenix 
Lifehas said on the matter, and whilst it could be said that it invoked an abundance of caution 
here, I dont think that was necessarily unreasonable, given the wording of the order and 
the change in pensions legislation in 2015. To clarify, the earmarking order said that Mr 
Ds ex- wife was entitled to 50% of the benefits which were capable of commutation. When 
the order was issued, this meant the tax free cash only. But pension freedoms have meant 
that the entirety of a pension pot is now capable of being commuted  or in other words 
being taken as a lump sum.
Had the order specified that it was the maximum amount of tax free cash which should be 
halved between Mr D and his ex-wife, I would agree that this shouldnt have necessitated 
further legal advice. But given the potential implications for Phoenix Life if it had made a 
mistake, I dont think its preference to seek absolute clarity on this issue was 
unreasonable.
Its not entirely clear to me how Phoenix Life has calculated the amount it has offered to 
Mr D in respect of the legal fees which shouldnt have been incurred  so beyond those 
for seeking clarity from his ex-wife  but it seems that this has been determined by 
deducting the latter amount from the total cost. This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, 
and so I dont propose to amend that aspect of the compensation.
But as to the calculation to determine whether Mr D has suffered a financial loss through 
the delays in transferring his pension benefits, Im inclined to agree with him that a 
comparison of the amounts received doesnt accurately reflect what would have 
happened if the benefits had been transferred sooner. The funds within the new provider 
may have performed quite differently to those with Phoenix Life.
And of course the additional funds in respect of the benefit guarantee also need to 
be factored into the loss calculation, as recently confirmed by Phoenix Life.
To remedy this, therefore, Phoenix Life should seek from the receiving provider the 
notional value of all the pension funds, after the amount which would have been payable 
as tax free cash is deducted, as at the date of receiving them (this may be a different 
date for the funds representing the benefit guarantee), had they instead been received on 
26 March 2018.
If the notional value at the dates of actual receipt of the funds would have been higher, 
then Mr D has suffered a loss. And this should be converted to a percentage loss, which 
should then be applied to the current fund value of the funds which were transferred. Any 
difference should be made up by Phoenix Life, ideally by paying the sum into the 
drawdown plan, ensuring this doesnt conflict with any existing protection and allowing for 
any available tax relief and charges.
If its not possible to pay the sum into the pension plan, it should be paid directly to Mr D, 
but with a notional deduction to reflect his marginal income tax, which Ive assumed is 
20%. As tax free cash has already been taken, there is no further cope for this, so the total 
deduction should be 20%.
The same percentage difference should also be applied retrospectively to any 
withdrawals taken by Mr D. To any difference should be added 8% simple interest pa 
from the date he received the withdrawal payment to the date of any final decision.
However, Mr D received also a higher tax free sum in November 2018 than he would 
have done had this been paid in March 2018. The difference in the tax free cash he did 
receive and would have received may therefore be deducted from any total loss figure 
which Phoenix Life calculates is payable to Mr D.Ive also noted Mr Ds comments about the additional mortgage payments he needed to
make due to the delays. It is the additional interest he needed to pay which might need to 
be awarded to him, but I note that no detail relating to this has as yet been forthcoming. If 
Mr D would like me to take this into consideration, he should forward this information in 
response to this provisional decision.
Finally, Ive considered the matter of the payment in respect of the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr D in this instance and the sum which would be fair and reasonable given all 
of the circumstances. Its fair to say that Mr D will have been greatly inconvenienced by the 
delays and that, even up to the latter half of this year, Phoenix hasnt been able to provide 
entirely accurate information to either Mr D or this service  its most recent confirmation 
relating to the benefit guarantee being a testament to this. And what would otherwise have 
been the omission of over £300,000 in the loss calculation is no trivial matter.
Mr D also needed to wait a significant amount of time before his received a final response 
to his complaint, which I think is analogous to the overall standard of service hes received 
from Phoenix Life.
But Im also conscious of the efforts Phoenix Life has, albeit belatedly, made towards 
putting things right, including the offer of a reimbursement of legal fees and its efforts to 
determine whether a loss has been incurred as a result of the delays. Its offered £1,000 in 
respect of the trouble and upset caused, and by way of an apology to Mr D. And this is a 
fairly substantial sum, bearing in mind that in all other respects Phoenix Life is committed 
to ensuring that any financial loss is redressed, including the matter of additional mortgage 
interest paid if evidence is submitted.
Im therefore currently minded to endorse the existing offer from Phoenix Life of £1,000 as 
being an appropriate additional payment.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should undertake the 
further loss calculation outlined above. If Mr D submits further evidence of mortgage 
interest which has been unnecessarily paid due to the ow my further thoughts
on this before issuing any final decision.
In response, Mr D said that he didnt have further evidence of the mortgage payments 
beyond that which hed already sent, and queried what would happen if Phoenix didnt 
respond to the provisional decision.
But Phoenix has responded, saying that it accepted my provisional findings. At my request, 
the investigator has also enquired as to whether Phoenix accepts as sufficient evidence the 
bank statements previously provided which showed the additional mortgage payments made 
by Mr D. 
Phoenix has confirmed that it does and that it is willing to pay Mr D the eight payments he 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with the findings in my provisional decision, my view on the 
matter remains the same.
Putting things right
Phoenix Life should pay redress to Mr D as set out in the provisional decision.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, and Phoenix Life should comply with the 
direction in the provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman