DRN-3239714
The complaint
Miss R complains that Sytner Limited brokered two finance agreements that she couldnt 
afford. 
What happened
Miss R had acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement. She called Sytner in 
March 2021 and asked for some assistance as her car service was due soon and she 
couldnt afford to pay for it. Sytner suggested that they could look to get her out of her 
existing hire purchase agreement and into a new one, for a brand new car. Sytner explained 
this would mean Miss R wouldnt have to pay for a car service. 
Several phone calls took place between Sytner and Miss R over the next few days to 
discuss the details of changing over the car and finance agreement. Miss R eventually 
agreed to part-exchange her existing car and enter into a new hire purchase agreement. 
However, there was negative equity on her existing hire purchase agreement so Sytner also 
brokered an additional fixed-sum loan agreement for Miss R to pay off that balance. The 
total combined monthly payments of the new hire purchase agreement and the fixed-sum 
loan agreement was £445.57. This was around £20 more expensive each month than what 
Miss R was paying towards her previous agreement. 
Miss R attended the dealership to sign all the paperwork and take possession of the new 
car. Shortly after she raised a complaint with Sytner and asked to be able to withdraw from 
the finance and hand the car back. She said that she couldnt afford the new agreements 
and had explained this to Sytner at the time. She said that she was vulnerable and had 
asked for a relative to be present before signing the paperwork but Sytner had persuaded 
her this wasnt necessary. 
Sytner didnt agree it had done anything wrong, however, it arranged to cancel the new hire 
purchase agreement and took back the car. It said that Miss R would need to continue 
making payments towards the fixed-sum loan agreement as this was the negative equity 
towards the old finance agreement and would always have been due to be paid. Miss R 
didnt think this was fair as she no longer had either of the cars and said she couldnt afford 
to pay the payments of £101.16 towards that agreement anyway.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that Sytner were required 
to ensure it gave Miss R sufficient information about the new agreements to enable her to 
work out whether it was affordable to her. Further, she said that Sytner ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to her based on what Miss R had said during some 
of the phone calls. She acknowledged that Sytner had acted fairly in buying back the new 
car and settling the hire purchase agreement, but she thought that Sytner should also settle 
the fixed-sum loan agreement and refund any payments Miss R had made towards it. This 
was because Sytner should have realised the agreements werent suitable for her. 
Sytner didnt agree. In summary, it said:
Sytner acknowledged that Miss R is now without a car, but they considered their 
actions were already a fair way to resolve the complaint. It said that the adjudicators 
proposed remedy would place Miss R in a position of betterment as it will allow her to 
walk away from the previous agreement without having to pay everything she would 
have been contractually obliged to otherwise. 
Throughout all of the calls between Sytner and Miss R there was no evidence of a 
pressured sale. 
While the new financial arrangements were around £20 more expensive per month, 
no consideration has been given to the reduced running costs of taking out a new 
car, such as servicing, replacement tyres as well as Miss R having the benefit of a 
new warranty/breakdown period. The new agreement was also at a lower interest 
rate than her previous agreement, meaning it was a lower cost for credit. 
Sytner as a broker doesnt have access to information held on Miss Rs credit file so 
it would be unreasonable to use information held there against Sytner when 
assessing affordability. It would be down to the lender to complete detailed 
affordability checks. Sytner asked Miss R to confirm she was happy the agreement 
was affordable to her, which she did. 
Sytner said it did provide Miss R with sufficient information about the agreements and 
associated risks prior to her entering into them. There were five days from when 
Miss R completed the demands and needs questionnaire to when she signed for the 
new finance agreements. It said this demonstrated Miss R had adequate time to 
assess whether the agreements were affordable and suitable for her. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sytner has already taken some steps to try to resolve this complaint by settling the new hire 
purchase agreement and taking back the car. Whats left for me to decide is whether it ought 
to also do something to put things right in relation the fixed-sum loan agreement it brokered 
for Miss R.
As a regulated credit broker, Sytner was required to follow the rules and guidance set out in 
the regulators Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 2.5 and 4.2 are particularly 
relevant here. These set out the requirements for credit brokers before introducing a 
consumer to credit. 
Amongst other things, Sytner needed to ensure it gave Miss R adequate explanations of the 
key features, costs and risks associated with the credit in order for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether to enter into the agreements. Further, Sytner needed to take 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the credit agreements were not unsuitable for Miss Rs 
needs and circumstances. 
Having considered the circumstances and evidence, Im not persuaded that Sytner acted 
fairly in brokering the two new credit agreements for Miss R. Ill explain why. 
Before doing so, I note Miss R says she was pressured into taking out both agreements and 
that Sytner were aware she was vulnerable and ought to have therefore dealt with the sale 
differently. Having listened to all the calls Miss R had with Sytner Im not persuaded that any undue pressure was applied, nor have I seen or heard anything to persuade me that its 
more likely than not Sytner knew that Miss R was vulnerable. I therefore dont consider 
Sytner acted unfairly in relation to these specific points.
The initial contact Miss R had with Sytner didnt involve her asking to enter into a new 
finance agreement or for any information about finance agreements. Instead, she asked 
Sytner what help it could offer her given that she wasnt able to afford her upcoming car 
service. It was Sytner, in response to this request for help with her financial circumstances, 
that suggested she take out a new credit agreement.
I note Sytner has sought to argue that by entering into a new car finance agreement and by 
extension a brand new car, it would alleviate Miss Rs immediate affordability concerns 
regarding her upcoming service. This was because a brand new car wouldnt require a 
service and it was less likely shed incur other maintenance costs such as having to replace 
tyres. This is also what Sytners salesperson told Miss R during one of the calls she had with 
them. 
However, Im concerned that Sytner feels that a responsible and suitable recommendation to 
make to a consumer who cannot afford a service costing a few hundred pounds, is to 
suggest they enter into two finance agreements with a combined total repayable of over 
£32,000. This seems rather disproportionate to the issue Miss R had presented to Sytner. It 
might be a wholly different matter if Miss R had asked about finance agreements, but the 
discussion about finance was entirely instigated and driven by Sytner. 
I note that in later phone calls with Sytner and prior to her signing the finance agreements, 
Miss R told Sytner she was skint and couldnt afford to put down anything as a holding 
deposit, even the £200 that Sytner initially asked her to contribute. I think this, combined with 
her concerns about being able to afford the annual service ought to have alerted Sytner to 
the possibility that entering into two new finance agreements was unlikely to be suitable for 
Miss Rs needs and circumstances. Fundamentally, what she needed was help with paying 
her car service, not to enter into a new finance agreement for a new car. 
I appreciate that Sytner may not have been best placed to offer her any advice about her 
difficulty in paying her car service. Therefore, the most appropriate course of action ought to 
have been to tell her that, rather than recommend she take out a significant amount of new 
credit for something she hadnt asked for or needed, or, at face value, didnt really address 
Miss Rs inability to afford a service. 
I accept that Sytner did provide Miss R with sufficient information about the financial 
arrangements. It set out that her previous agreement would have negative equity, how this 
would be paid off and the total costs of the new finance arrangements. Miss R also had 
several days to decide for herself whether this was something she wanted to go ahead with 
before she eventually signed the finance paperwork.
However, its clear throughout the calls Miss R had with Sytner that the inducement for her to 
enter into these new arrangements was the fact that she wouldnt, in the short term, have to 
find money to pay for an upcoming car service. When Miss R was told the new 
arrangements were to cost more each month than her current agreement, its clear she 
hesitated because she couldnt afford to pay more. While Im satisfied there wasnt undue 
pressure applied by Sytner, the finance deal was positioned to her as more financially 
beneficial to her because she wouldnt have to pay for an upcoming service or replacement 
tyres on her existing car. Sytner told her that the small increase in monthly payments 
therefore worked out better for her. On this basis, she agreed to proceed. I dont agree that 
entering into these agreements would have worked out better for her, was in her best 
interests, nor do I think it was suitable for her circumstances of which Sytner was aware. It therefore acted unfairly and unreasonably in brokering the new finance agreements for her. 
Putting things right
As Ive set out above, the new hire purchase agreement has been settled and the car 
returned so there is nothing further Sytner needs to do in relation to that agreement. 
However, the fixed-sum loan agreement wasnt settled by Sytner. Given that I dont think 
Sytner should have brokered the agreement and it acted unfairly in doing so, I think it should 
also ensure that it settles that finance agreement too. In addition, it should refund any 
payments Miss R has already made towards that agreement, adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
Sytner says that this would place Miss R in a position of betterment. I disagree. Miss R no 
longer has the car that was subject to that negative equity. But for Sytners actions she 
would still be in that agreement and have the car. Her paying for negative equity without 
having a car is not a situation she would ever have been in if Sytner hadnt brokered the 
agreements. It isnt fair and reasonable that as a result of Sytners actions Miss R continues 
to pay towards a car she no longer has access to. She is currently in a worse position than 
she should be in due to Sytners actions. By asking Sytner to settle the fixed-sum loan 
agreement and refund the payments she has already made places Miss R, as close as 
possible, back in the position she would have been in but for Sytners actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Sytner Limited to:
Arrange to settle Miss Rs fixed-sum loan agreement by paying off any remaining 
balance.
Refund all the payments Miss R has made towards the fixed-sum loan agreement, 
adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Sytner is required to deduct tax from the interest element of my award. It should provide 
Miss R with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so she can reclaim that 
amount, should she be eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman