DRN-1761413
 
The complaint
Mr A says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted irresponsibly when 
it provided loans to him.
What happened 
Sunny gave Mr A eight loans between November 2018 and April 2019. All the loans have 
been repaid. 
Heres a table showing the loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest* 
Repayment
1 14/11/2018 03/09/2019 14 £1000.00 £261.87
2 07/01/2019 26/02/2019 6 £500.00 £265.76
3 25/01/2019 03/09/2019 6 £500.00 £403.00
4 15/02/2019 26/02/2019 6 £50.00 £416.72
5 08/03/2019 22/03/2019 6 £100.00 £295.64
6 22/03/2019 03/09/2019 5 £100.00 £295.64
7 23/03/2019 24/04/2019 5 £50.00 £309.23
8 27/04/2019 03/09/2019 6 £100.00 £336.52
*approximate combined repayments where loans overlap
Mr A complained that Sunny failed to carry out effective affordability checks before lending to 
him and provided loans that he couldnt afford to repay in a sustainable way. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair that Sunny had 
provided loans 1 - 3 to Mr A. But he thought that loan 4 onwards shouldnt have been 
provided  and he explained how hed come to this view. 
Our adjudicator also gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought Sunny 
should settle the complaint. Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for a review. In summary, Sunny 
said our adjudicators view wasnt supported by the number of loans and relatively small 
amount of credit provided to Mr A, the information he provided to Sunny about his 
circumstances, including his income and expenditure, or information Sunny obtained from 
credit reference agencies, when it agreed to lend to Mr A. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint - and in coming to my view Ive also 
taken into account everything that Sunny said in response to our adjudicators opinion letter. 
Ive looked at what it appears Mr A told Sunny about his financial circumstances and the 
repayment amounts he had to make for loans 1  3. Taking this information into account, 
and bearing in mind that this was early on in his lending relationship with Sunny, I dont think 
it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr A for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
These loans all looked affordable for Mr A, based on what hed said to Sunny about his 
finances - even taking into account the combined monthly repayments where loans 
overlapped. So I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough information for me to be 
able to say that Sunny shouldnt have lent Mr A any of the first three loans. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr As borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 4, Mr A already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny  and now he was asking for further borrowing. 
Ive taken into account that loan 4 was the smallest single loan amount Mr A had taken out 
with Sunny  and it wasnt a lot of money relatively speaking looking at the other loans hed 
taken with Sunny. Looking at the information Sunny had recorded for Mr A, this loan 
mightve appeared affordable  even on top of his other Sunny loans that he was still paying. 
But despite this, I still think that Sunny shouldve realised that Mr As borrowing record 
painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. Although Sunny had obtained some credit 
information this doesnt help explain Mr As borrowing history. I think that Sunny shouldve 
realised that regardless of what Mr A had told Sunny about his finances, it could see clear 
signs that he was having serious problems managing his money. So I think Sunny shouldve 
enquired further and checked to make sure it had a proper understanding of his financial 
situation. Sunny hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a 
proportionate check before agreeing to lend him loan 4. 
Just because Sunny allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time doesnt 
mean that it acted fairly when it provided loan 4 to Mr A. I think Sunny shouldve seen that 
the indications were that loan 4 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr A and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan to him  or any further loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by loan 8. I say this because:
Mr A wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably  by the time he took out loan 8 
hed been paying Sunny loans for 6 months in a row  and now he was signing up to 
a loan that could keep him indebted to Sunny for a further 6 months 
Sunny could see that Mr A had already established a clear pattern of paying 
outstanding loans early and quickly borrowing again. So by loan 8 it looked like Mr A 
probably wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose. the loan amounts were variable - but I think Mr As history of borrowing new loans 
before repaying all his earlier ones indicated that overall his financial circumstances 
werent improving. And I think the signs were that he was struggling with debt and 
reliant on this sort of borrowing just to get by month to month rather than using the 
loans to cover a temporary cash flow problem.  
 
I think that Mr A lost out when Sunny provided loan 8 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
the number of loans Mr A borrowed was likely to impact adversely on his ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept Mr A in the market for high-cost loans. By 
loan 8, any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to Mr As credit rating. 
 
So overall, Im upholding Mr As complaint from loan 4 onwards.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do  
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4 - 8, not including anything it has already refunded. 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr A the total of A plus B.
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr As credit file for loans 4 - 7. 
E. The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing by loan 8 means any information recorded 
about this loan is adverse, so Sunny should remove loan 8 entirely from Mr As credit 
file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr As complaint about loans 4 - 8. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out above to 
put things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
A to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman