DRN-2202195
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a mortgage.
Ill refer to the business as Santander in this decision, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Santander in 2003, during a meeting. At the same 
time, they took out a PPI policy.
The policy was designed to protect Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage payments if Mr W 
was off sick, or if he lost his job. The policy cost just under £41 per month. It would have paid 
a monthly benefit of £780 for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application form. It included a section on 
Mortgage PaymentCover (PPI). It encouraged the applicant to discuss the cover with 
their mortgage officer or introducer. There were three equally prominent options with tick 
boxes. The first of those said I would like Mortgage PaymentCover and I attach a fully 
completed application form. That box was ticked, to indicate that Mr and Mrs W wished 
to take the cover. The other options were, in summary, to confirm that the applicant 
wished to consider the cover and wanted more information, or to confirm that the 
applicant had been offered the cover but didnt wish to take it. The tick boxes next to 
those options were left blank. Mr W also signed specifically to confirm the decision about 
PPI.
Im satisfied that Santander made it clear to Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was optional. 
And I think they decided to take it, knowing that they had a choice.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. This meant that it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. And it looks as if it was suitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs W have told us that Mr W would have been entitled to less than three 
months pay from his employer if hed been off sick. If hed made a successful claim on 
the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have covered Mr and 
Mrs Ws monthly mortgage payments for up to a year. Thats significantly longer than 
Mr W would have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mr W received from his employer. So Mr and Mrs W 
could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Mr and Mrs W have told us that Mrs W was a housewife at the time, and aside from any 
payments from Mr Ws employer, they didnt have any savings or other means they could 
have used to make their monthly mortgage payments if Mr W was unable to work. Ive 
borne in mind that the mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on their 
property, and the consequences of not keeping up with payments could have been 
serious. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr and 
Mrs W.
I accept that its possible that Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't 
cover (for example, provisions about existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
arrangements). But from what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would have been affected by any of these.
The policy was competitively priced, and apparently affordable for Mr and Mrs W. And as 
they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if their 
circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, I dont think that better information would have put 
Mr and Mrs W off taking out the PPI. 
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including what theyve said about the 
PPI having been pushed. They say Santander told them the PPI was an inducement to the 
success of the mortgage application. I cant know for sure what was discussed at the 
meeting. But while I accept that Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W, I cant 
fairly conclude, based purely on Mr and Mrs Ws recollection of a conversation so many 
years ago, that unfair pressure was put on them to take it, or that they were told it would 
increase the chance of their mortgage application being successful. Ive commented above 
that Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was optional. 
Overall, I think its most likely that there was a discussion around how Mr and Mrs W would 
make their mortgage payments if Mr W was off sick or lost his job. And I think Mr and Mrs W 
decided to take the PPI because they wanted the protection it offered.
Mr and Mrs W have mentioned that they tried twice to claim on the policy for redundancy, 
but the insurer wouldnt discuss their claim until after a paid notice period had finished. They 
say Mr Ws notice period was three months, and this means that they were always going to 
have a long and anxious wait if he was made redundant. Mr and Mrs W say they needed 
help and support at the time when they were experiencing the stress of redundancy. And 
they say the policy didnt provide that, in spite of being sold as the support someone would 
need in that situation. They say that if Santander had fully explained this, theyd have 
realised that it would only pay out in extreme circumstances for us, and they wouldnt have 
taken it out.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W have said. But it was standard in PPI 
policies that benefit would only start to be paid after any paid notice period finished. Until that 
point, the policyholders income would continue. And I dont think it was unreasonable if the 
adviser didnt draw their attention specifically to this provision. Ive explained above that I think that Mr and Mrs W had quite a strong need for the PPI, 
given Mr Ws limited sick pay entitlement and their lack of alternative means of covering their 
monthly mortgage payments. It would have covered their substantial monthly mortgage 
payments for up to a year once Mr Ws paid notice period expired  so they could have 
benefited significantly from it. So I dont think the fact that a claim wouldnt be considered 
until after Mr Ws notice period had finished made the policy unsuitable for them. And Im not 
convinced, on balance, that theyd have decided against taking the policy if Santander had 
pointed this out.
This means that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs W. But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because:
When the policy was sold, Santander expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and 
Mrs W about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman