DRN-3882581
The complaint
The estates of Mrs D and Mr D complain about investment advice provided to the late Mrs D 
and Mr D in 2004 by Sesame Limited. They complain that the advice to take out a lifetime 
mortgage to put in an investment bond was unsuitable because instead of mitigating any tax 
liability, it eroded the value of the estates. 
What happened
In August 2019 the estates of Mrs D and Mr D complained to Sesame about advice the late 
Mr and Mrs D received in 2004. In short they said:
Mr and Mrs D were advised to borrow money in 2004 on their home to invest in a 
Scottish Widows bond. This was supposed to be inheritance tax planning, but in fact 
it eroded the value of the estates. 
They complained that a number of other options were not discussed, including 
change to ownership of the properties, potentially exempt transfers or taking whole of 
life plans. 
They complained that no account was made for the possible increase in estate value 
during subsequent years, and that the advice caused financial loss to the estates 
rather than any mitigation of Inheritance Tax (IHT). 
Sesame didnt initially uphold the complaint, and so the estates of Mrs D and Mr D referred 
their complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said:
The evidence he had seen showed that the late Mr and Mrs D were looking to 
mitigate IHT as well as looking for some additional income to support their lifestyle. 
The evidence suggested that the late Mr and Mrs D were not looking to invest their 
existing liquid assets, or encash them for additional capital, and instead were looking 
on releasing money from their property as they had previously done so in the past. 
He concluded that the late Mr and Mrs D were looking to maximise their income 
without increasing their outgoings, and the equity release product they were 
recommended did this. 
The information around the product itself was clear as to the costs and impact on the 
value of their home. He therefore didnt agree that the advice was unsuitable. 
The way in which the adviser recommended the late Mr and Mrs D mitigate IHT. 
He acknowledged that there may have been other products on the market, but he 
said that he was tasked with establishing whether it was fair and reasonable for the 
adviser to have recommended what he did, and not whether it was not the most 
suitable or the best product on the market. 
The alternatives to a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT) were discussed with the late Mr 
and Mrs D. He said there was evidence the adviser had discussed taking out life 
policies, but these werent appropriate in view of Mr and Mrs Ds health. He also said 
that the use of gifts, or potentially exempt transfers (PETs) was also discussed  but 
the late Mr and Mrs D had been reluctant to make full use of PETs as a result of 
concerns over the impact on their income. 
The DGT was recommended because it allowed the late Mr and Mrs D to retain the 
benefit of the income from the investment, while at the same time placing the capital 
outside of their estate. 
The investment itself was suitable for the late Mr and Mrs D based on their objectives 
and attitude to risk. 
The estates of Mrs D and Mr D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. They said 
that the investigator hadnt fully considered the impact of the late Mr and Mrs D borrowing 
money against the property in order to mitigate tax, where the rolling up of interest had 
essentially wiped out any possible IHT benefit and eroded the value of the estate. 
They said that by the time of the second death, there was little or no equity left in the 
property. They queried how the compounding interest affected the IHT planning which the 
adviser was recommending, and said that the total cost to redeem the mortgage in 
December 2017 meant that the whole estate was essentially jeopardised in order to deliver 
the income or capital drawdown the late Mr and Mrs D were looking for at the time  when 
the purpose of the advice was ostensibly to protect the estate, not erode it. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the representative of the estates of Mrs D and Mr D for the comprehensive 
submissions during the investigation, and the response to the investigators assessment. I 
understand why the advice provided in 2004 continues to cause concern, and I acknowledge 
the representatives misgivings over the advice to release equity from the property in this 
way. Theres no doubt that, over the long term, this was an expensive form of borrowing. 
As the investigator has said, the passage of time has meant that not all the information has 
been accessible  and I dont think thats unreasonable. 
But Im also satisfied that the information available is sufficient for me to be able to make a 
decision on this case on the balance of probabilities. 
In terms of the equity release product, Im persuaded it was fair and reasonable for the 
adviser to have concluded it was suitable for the late Mr and Mrs D based on their objectives 
and overall financial circumstances. 
I say this for the following reasons:
The contemporaneous notes show that Mr and Mrs D had already raised capital 
using a mortgage product previously, whereby the proceeds of that mortgage were 
invested in a bond and income taken from it. So Im satisfied that they had the knowledge and experience to understand what was being recommended, and the 
implications on the liability that would be attached to their home in the long run. 
This is also supported by the documentation that was issued to them, which showed 
quite clearly the financial impact of the compounding nature of the interest that was 
being charged on such a significant sum. 
Furthermore, the presence of a solicitor further satisfies me that the late Mr and Mrs 
D were fully aware of the implications. The letter from the solicitor confirms that 
discussions had been had with them about the impact on their estates, and that they 
were happy to proceed. The evidence also shows quite clearly that Mr and Mrs M 
required additional income over and above what they were receiving at the time, and 
had limited options to achieve this objective.
Some anecdotal evidence shows that the late Mr and Mrs D may have been 
considering the possibility of repaying the loan early, as they had done with the 
previous product. I can see that they had queried the early repayment charges, and 
had been reassured that those charges only applied in the first 5 years. Whilst I cant 
be definitive about the original query, as I dont have that evidence, I think it shows 
that the late Mr and Mrs D had not necessarily intended for the product to run as long 
as it eventually did. This is relevant, because much of the estates representatives 
arguments are about the long term impact of the loan  but whilst this was clearly a 
relevant consideration for the adviser at the time, it was not the only one and was 
affected by a number of variables, including the late Mr and Mrs Ds decisions around 
repayment as well as the increase in value of their home. 
The fact find in my view indicates that the late Mr and Mrs D had limited other options 
for raising the money they wanted to be able to invest. I agree with the investigator 
that this was one of two key reasons why they were interested in the equity release 
product  the other being the possibility of extinguishing the existing mortgage they 
had taken out previously. 
Im satisfied that at the time, Mr and Mrs D wanted to raise funds in order to reduce 
their outgoings (by extinguishing the existing mortgage and therefore eliminating 
£750 repayment per month), and be able to invest the residual balance in an 
investment that would produce an income for them. Whilst Im not concluding there 
were no other alternatives available for them to do this, Im persuaded it was fair and 
reasonable for the adviser to have thought that this was a suitable recommendation 
for them. 
In terms of the DGT, here too I think the evidence shows that most of the alternatives 
put forward by the estates representative were not accepted by the late Mr and Mrs 
D. Life policies were discussed but discounted, and the adviser acknowledged the 
late Mr and Mrs Ds concerns over gifts, but recommended they make use of them 
anyway. 
Its clear to me that the overarching objective of not reducing their income and 
maintaining their lifestyle was paramount to the late Mr and Mrs D objectives at the 
time. 
This meant that the adviser was duty bound to ensure that his recommendations took 
those objectives into account and gave them the requisite priority. So I dont consider 
it unreasonable that the adviser gave those concerns precedence over IHT mitigation 
using other alternatives. Furthermore, I can see that when the adviser was calculating the estates liability for IHT, he 
took the above into account. At the time, this meant a liability for IHT of over £560,000  so 
Im satisfied that moving the residual balance of the equity release into a DGT was a suitable 
way for the late Mr and Mrs D to mitigate their IHT liability, while at the same time retaining 
some control over the income they were due to receive.
Unfortunately, it isnt now possible to know precisely what other options, if any, were 
discussed with the late Mr and Mrs D, or whether in subsequent years the desire to repay 
the equity release early was overtaken by other events. As the investigator has pointed out, 
there were significant withdrawals in another bond the late Mr and Mrs D had which 
suggests there was a greater than anticipated need for income or capital withdrawals. Had 
this been raised with the adviser at the time of the advice in 2004, it may have been relevant 
to the recommendations he made. 
But from the evidence Ive seen, which includes a fact find and contemporaneous evidence 
of the late Mr and Mrs Ds objectives at the time, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable 
for the adviser to conclude that the recommendation to release equity from the property, and 
with part of the proceeds set up a DGT, was suitable. I accept that this will come as a 
disappointment to the estates of Mrs D and Mr D, but I hope they will understand the 
reasons behind my decision. If they do not accept my final decision, it will not be legally 
binding  this means that they will be able to pursue alternative avenues against Sesame 
should they consider it reasonable to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mrs 
D and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman