DRN-3978535
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy about the standard of service QIC Europe Limited provided when 
they made a claim under their policy.
The buildings policy was held in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr J 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J brought a complaint to this service when QIC declined their claim for storm 
damage. This service has investigated that complaint and issued a final decision. So, 
matters already addressed wont be considered again here.
The new complaint Mr J brings is about the standard of customer service provided by QIC 
when handling his claim. Specifically, he complains about:
Problems using QICs online portal.
QICs reluctance to communicate with them by post.
Delays in providing information they asked for.
Inaccuracy of the surveyors report.
The surveyors impartiality.
QIC looked into Mr Js complaint about its standard of service, but it didnt identify any 
significant shortfalls. It didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Our investigator didnt think QIC had done anything wrong, so she didnt propose any further 
action. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said the standard of service was poor, QIC didnt provide information 
he asked for, and the surveyors actions need to be reconsidered alongside the claim 
because the two matters are linked.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr J will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Portal access
Theres no dispute that there were some problems accessing the portal to begin with. 
However, looking at Mr Js record of events compared with that provided by QIC, I note QIC 
fixed the access problem three days after Mr J told it about the difficulty. I dont think thats 
an unreasonable amount of time to fix access to the portal, and QIC looked into the matter 
during the call. I havent seen anything here to suggest that QIC caused Mr J any detriment. 
Therefore, I wont be asking QIC to do any more in respect of this issue.
Postal communication
Mr J said QIC was reluctant to communicate with him by post. Again, theres no dispute that 
Mr J asked for communication by post. Looking at the timeline of events and QICs 
response, I note that it shut down access to the portal and sent further correspondence by 
post. Therefore, Im satisfied that QIC changed its method of communication in line with Mr 
Js request. I see no reason to require action of QIC in respect of this matter.
Delays  
Mr J complains that QIC delayed sending information he asked for, giving the surveyors 
report and the photos as an example. Ive looked through the timelines, but I havent 
identified a significant delay in sending correspondence. Having listened to the call between 
Mr J and QIC where the outcome of the claim was discussed, I note he asked for a copy of 
the surveyors report by post. QIC explained that it would take a little longer to issue by post 
and Mr J said that didnt matter. Mr J didnt specifically ask for photos, though I accept he 
may have expected QIC to include them. But I dont consider this a significant shortfall that 
would warrant action. So, I cant fairly say that QIC provided poor service here.
Accuracy and impartiality of surveyor
I understand that Mr J thinks the surveyor had decided the outcome of the claim before 
carrying out any inspection, and he disputes the accuracy of the report. While Mr J has 
raised these issues as part of his complaint about customer service, they both relate directly 
to the outcome of the claim. As Ive already decided on that matter, I wont consider it again 
here.
Claim outcome
Mr J said it was unacceptable for QIC to decline his claim without giving him an opportunity 
to dispute it. I understand hed have been upset with the outcome of his claim, but that 
doesnt mean QIC shouldve offered an opportunity for dispute. The policy provides 
information to policyholders about what to do if theyre unhappy about how their claim has 
been handled. So, I cant reasonably say QIC didnt make that opportunity available to Mr J. 
I find no reason to require anything further of QIC in respect of this point.
Overall, the evidence doesnt indicate that QIC failed to provide a reasonable standard of 
service when dealing with Mr Js complaint. Therefore, I see no reason to ask QIC to do any 
more here.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman