DRN-3652318
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to IFM.
Mr W is represented by a company in bringing his complaint but Ill refer to the comments 
made on his behalf as being made by Mr W himself.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund made the announcement that the terms of a 
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr W was concerned about what some of the early announcements by his employer meant 
for the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was 
referred to IFM which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr W was described as being in good health and at the time of the advice. He was 
55 years old, married with no other financial dependents. He and Mrs W lived in a 
home with no mortgage outstanding. 
IFM failed to collect much information about Mrs W. However, we know Mr W earned 
around £37,000 per year in the steel industry. After all their monthly household 
expenses were deducted from income, it seems he and Mrs W enjoyed reasonable 
disposable income. Mr and Mrs W also had existing savings recorded of £20,000 but 
again, there wasnt very clear information recorded by IFM about where this was 
invested or saved. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£581,597. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Mr W had evidently told the 
adviser hed like to retire earlier than this if possible; the age of 57 was mentioned.
Mr W had already joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension in 2016.
IFM set out its advice in a suitability report on 20 September 2017. In this it advised Mr W to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. IFM said 
this would allow Mr W to achieve his objectives. Mr W accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. 
In 2022 Mr W complained to IFM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out to a personal pension but IFM denied it had done anything wrong. Mr W then 
referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and 
said it should be upheld. IFM hasnt agreed to this.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, IFM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ws best interests. Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Introductory issues
IFM began gathering information at a time when there was still some uncertainty about what 
was happening with the BSPS and the BSPS2. There had been a number of 
announcements suggesting the setting up of a new BSPS2 scheme and further updates 
were still being issued at around the time Mr W was being advised. This included 
confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that details of the scheme would 
follow and that members would have until December 2017 to make a choice. 
On 13 July 2017 IFM completed a fact-find with Mr W about his financial and personal 
circumstances. On 28 July and again on 19 September 2017 he was given a financial 
illustration about a type of personal pension plan offered by a major provider and on the 
same day he was issued with a formal letter by IFM confirming it was advising him.
All the ongoing announcements indicated there would be forthcoming information available. 
In my view this meant that in order to give Mr W enough information to make a fully informed 
decision about what was in his best interests, I think IFM should have told him to defer 
making a final decision on possibly transferring away until further details of the BSPS2 were 
known and revised transfer values received. Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off 
event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are usually 
lost forever. 
The announcements indicated thus far were that Mr W would be afforded time to think about 
his options  so the deadline in the original transfer quotation became less relevant. And 
waiting wouldve allowed IFM to carry out an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and to properly 
compare these to the alternatives, and base its advice on this. Without doing this, IFM was 
acting on information which it knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could 
properly assess whether a transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
As our investigator also explained when they issued their View letter, the amount of 
information collected by IFM seems short of what wed expect to see for a pension transfer 
of this nature. Mr W had been referred to IFM by another financial adviser which didnt have 
the correct permission to give DB transfer advice. And I think the evidence shows that IFM 
treated Mr Ws case without sufficient diligence and individuality. This was a large pension 
by most peoples standards and much of the rationale looks very much to me like stock 
objectives, used to support and justify the transfer-away advice. Forms and procedures that 
should have been completed by the IFM adviser were not fully filled out and I certainly dont 
think Mr W was given enough information to help him make an informed decision.
For example, as Ill also explain more about below, a proper transfer analysis report has not 
been forwarded to our Service. IFM implies that this has been lost. But if one was ever even 
produced, only very limited financial analysis found its way into the suitability report Mr W 
was given. I also think the information recorded about Mrs W was poor, again I set out some 
more comments about this further down. And finally, I agree with the investigator that the 
financial information sections on the fact-find appear to have been hurriedly completed thus 
giving a less than complete picture of Mr and Mrs Ws financial situation and likely priorities.
Its also my experience that professional financial advisers operating in the pensions 
landscape are generally well aware of the need to retain important transfer documentation. 
In my view, this is a long-held principle backed up by periodic guidance and rules from the 
Regulator. And these principles date back many years to before the Pensions Review 
process conducted throughout the 1990s. This Review followed and sought to put right 
widespread concerns about poor transfer advice.I therefore think its fair to assess the level of advice and service provided to Mr W to have 
been lacking in a number of areas. IFM was advising a number of clients in similar situations 
and it should have known that the picture concerning BSPS2 was becoming clearer. But 
overall, it failed to give Mr W the information he needed and it made a recommendation 
based on incomplete information.
Financial viability 
I have considered whether there was any real rationale for transferring from a financial 
comparison or viability perspective. Put another way, was Mr W likely to receive higher or 
lower benefits as a result of transferring away from a DB scheme, such as the new BSPS2, 
to a personal pension plan?
As Ive said, the issuing of a transfer analysis document  often referred to as a TVAS  
was either not completed in this case or somehow lost. This is an important part of the initial 
transfer assessment and in my view, its absence is a serious shortcoming.
A critical yield comparison was a requirement from the Regulator at the time. When 
advising clients on DB transfers, the critical yield(s) would be shown in the TVAS or 
suitability report. In this case, this didnt happen.
A critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. Id normally expect to see the critical yields for 
retiring at the NRA which in this case was 65. If early retirement was a relevant 
consideration, Id expect to see a critical yield for this too. Taking a lump-sum upon 
retirement  or deciding not to take one  would usually produce different critical yield rates. 
All this would help give the consumer important comparative information which would help 
them make an informed decision.
In this case, weve been sent no TVAS by IFM and so no critical yields. However Ive seen 
that in its suitability report of 20 September 2017 IFM made one reference to growth which 
could be considered connected to this area. It said, the analysis will not represent a true 
picture and will arguably add no value to the process. Moreover, as your intention behind 
transferring is to take full advantage of pensions freedom rather than purchase a lifetime 
annuity in the future, the results of a TVAS are largely academic. For your information 
however, I can confirm that our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that 
annual investment returns of typically around 8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the 
benefits available at 65 from the current British Steel scheme.
In my view, what IFM was doing here was effectively departing from an established practice 
in pension transfer advice cases, whereby the consumer is shown the result of the analysis 
and, of course, the various critical yield figures. What IFM was saying above, was that it 
didnt consider the critical yield to be worth showing to Mr W. Instead, it gave him a ball-park 
figure for a retirement at 65 and no critical yields were provided for an earlier retirement, 
even though IFM says this is what its advice was largely based on. However, in any event, 
IFM was also implying that to grow his pension (if transferred) by enough to make it 
financially worthwhile  a typical figure of 8% per year should be used.
Clearly, only providing Mr W with a typical growth rate is not acceptable as it didnt treat 
him as an individual. It didnt give him the information he needed. I say again, this was a 
large pension and no doubt very important to Mr Ws financial wellbeing. But even if I were to 
accept IFMs ball-park growth figure of 8% as being accurate, there would be little point in transferring, from a financial perspective, to obtain only pension benefits of a lower - or even 
similar  level, upon Mr W reaching retirement. This means he would have to really hope to 
achieve more than 8% growth per year if he transferred. He would also have to account for 
the fees and charges normally associated with a personal pension plan and these would 
have acted as a drag on any growth he achieved if he had transferred away.
Therefore, to make out any financial case whatsoever for transferring away, I think its 
reasonable there would need to be some confidence of seeing annual growth rates of over 
9% until retirement. In my view, this was very unlikely, particularly as in 2017 we were in a 
sustained period of very low interest rates and bond yields. 
Reference to these potential growth figures were only supplied for a retirement at the NRA of 
65 - no figures at all were shown for an earlier retirement, even though IFM bases its 
defence of this complaint on Mr W being almost certain to retire at the age of 57. But in my 
experience, the critical yields for such an early retirement could have been even higher, 
which means that Mr Ws transferred funds would have to grow by even more to have made 
transferring worthwhile. But of course, the reality here is that Mr W simply didnt know what 
the critical yields for an early retirement were because he wasnt shown any analysis by the 
adviser. 
To be clear then, I think all the critical yields  whether published at the time or not - were 
most likely unachievable when viewed through the lens of when the advice was given, in 
2017. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate was only 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement (age 65), which 
is below the likely critical yield figures and certainly well below the 8% mentioned by IFM in 
the suitability report. For a retirement at 57, I myself have calculated the discount rate as 
being only 2.5%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
IFM said Mr W had a moderate attitude to risk (ATR) which shows he would probably not 
have achieved close to the growth rates Ive mentioned above. But I consider even this ATR 
was too high. There were no examples of Mr W having any past experience in money 
market investment funds, so I dont think he had any history to draw upon. There was also 
no evidence that his £20,000 in savings was kept in anything other than a normal deposit 
savings account. And I think the questions he answered about risk showed he was 
uncomfortable with loss, particularly given his age and the limited time hed still have to 
make any investment losses up ahead of his eventual retirement.
I therefore think that growth assumptions at the lower end of the regulators range and close 
to the discount rates were appropriate in his case. The personal pension plan fund also said 
the average annual growth in a personal plan might only be around 2.44%. So, if IFM was 
ever assuming growth close to or over 8% (the probable critical yield), this wasnt credible.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, IFMs own 
estimated figures, shown in its suitability report, showed that transferring to a personal 
pension plan would mean Mr W would likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer 
term if he transferred away, when compared against the BSPS. But IFM could and should 
have calculated the comparisons for Mr W when the situation with BSPS2 had become clearer  we know this was becoming available at around the very time the suitability report 
was published.
IFM now says the critical yields for comparisons with the PPF would have been much lower 
percentages. But I dont think Mr W would have wanted to voluntarily enter the PPF and in 
any event, the percentages would have related to its reduced benefits. But again, the point 
here is that the adviser didnt comprehensively go through these things with Mr W. If IFM is 
implying now that these yields were important, then by definition, it seriously failed Mr W by 
advising him to transfer away without first discussing alternative plans with him in detail.
Ive also considered some projections IFM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr W well into retirement. I think its fair to say these were 
certainly not comparing like-with-like. What IFM was showing Mr W were comparisons with 
plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. They relied on investment 
risk which I think was too high, factored in over many years and based on past performance. 
Some of the scenarios showed Mr W running out of money at certain ages, but his DB 
scheme would have been guaranteed for life.
Of course, according to IFM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, IFM said Mr W also had other reasons to transfer away and these were mainly 
based around a retirement at 57. So, Ive thought about all the other considerations which 
might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits 
mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive considered with care everything IFM has said about the rationale for transferring. And I 
think its fair to summarise the reasons it set out as being around greater flexibility and 
meeting some of the aspirations Mr W had for retirement. The suitability report noted the 
following reasons for the recommendation to transfer away:
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the new 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
I have considered all these issues with care.
Retiring early
Ive considered whether the references to an early retirement made in the documentation 
from the time were credible. 
Firstly, I think its important to note that Mr W had only referred to the possibility of retiring at 
the age of 57. In my view, this was clearly aspirational rather than a definite plan. I say this because whilst the fact-find did mention an early retirement at that age, it also added, if 
transferred. In addition to this, the suitability report said, you explained to me that you 
would like to retire around 57 and question whether the pension offered by the British Steel 
scheme will be sufficient to allow this. Ive noted too, that as of the time of writing this final 
decision, Mr W still works. And whilst hes accessed some of his transferred monies, he has 
used this to gift some to close relatives and he hasnt needed to access a regular drawdown 
income as a type of pension. Asked about what he might have done if he had realised 
transferring wasnt in his best interests, Mr W says hed have joined BSPS2 and not 
accessed his pension benefits early for non-essential purposes, or where other routes could 
have been explored.
I therefore think that an early retirement at the age of 57 was only an idea at the time. More 
importantly, it was also wholly predicated on Mr W transferring out of a DB scheme and into 
a personal pension plan. And whilst I accept that Mr W may well have originally wanted, like 
most people, to retire as early as he could, theres no evidence that he had any concrete 
retirement plans at the time the advice was given. I think he was simply thinking about what 
his options might be and whether they would be affordable.
The adviser should have also known that retiring at 57 is comparatively young and will 
normally require significant financial resources to support it. Mr W may have had a relatively 
good pension CETV, but I think IFM failed to collect relevant information about Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances, in particular whether she had any earnings, pensions or savings of 
her own. Also, IFMs job here wasnt to simply transact what Mr W might have thought 
sounded like a good idea. IFM was being substantially paid for this advice and so I think Mr 
W had every right to expect it would come from someone with the right knowledge. The 
advisers job was to recommend what was in Mr Ws overall best interests. But I dont think 
this happened. 
I say this because I think the adviser started from the position that transferring away was the 
much better option and they didnt deviate from that course. References to Mr W possibly 
retiring from the new BSPS2 early were described as pension penalties rather than 
actuarial reductions caused by him accessing a pension earlier and therefore, for a much 
longer period. So, I think this portrayed DB pensions generally in a very negative dimension 
to Mr W. The adviser also seemed to question whether entering the PPF and retiring early 
from that scheme was even allowed under the rules. Both these issues needed substantial 
explanations and I dont think this happened either. So, from the outset, the advice was 
predominantly focused on Mr W just transferring away to a type of personal pension plan at 
the age of 57.
However, Mr W was still in good health and fully able to work. So, I dont think there was any 
reason why the adviser didnt at least challenge the apparent desire to retire so young, or at 
least make out the case for retiring early having become a member of the BSPS2, a DB 
scheme which contained substantial guarantees. Advice of this nature might have been 
more realistic and also more suited to Mr W, if hed been told early retirement could require 
him working for just a little longer. 
But I dont think the adviser really considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws retirement needs and 
financial circumstances when making the recommendation to transfer to a personal pension 
plan. In particular, no real assessment of how much they would need to live comfortably in 
retirement was carried out. IFM says now that this is because, upon a retirement at around 
the age of 57, this was only two years away from the point of advice in September 2017. It 
says Mr and Mrs Ws expenditures would be unlikely to change and so what they were 
spending now would broadly continue into early retirement. The suitability report from the actual time of the advice doesnt say this, but Ive considered 
what IFM says now in any event. The fact-find showed their monthly outgoings in 2017 as 
being a very modest £750 per month. They also had £20,000 in cash savings, no mortgage, 
no other borrowing and no major financial liabilities. 
So, I dont think theres anything showing why Mr Ws pension entitlements with the 
proposed BSPS2 wouldnt have easily met his and Mrs Ws anticipated income 
requirements, without any need to transfer away from the DB scheme. We know that IFM 
said his estimated pension for the DB scheme at the NRA might be around £25,638 per 
year. It also estimated it might be around £18,000 per year at the age of 57. And if taking a 
reduced pension at 57 together with a tax-free lump sum IFM estimated this would be 
£12,700 annually and £85,000 in cash. All these scenarios comfortably cater for what Mr and 
Mrs Ws income needs apparently were if using IFMs own figures and responses.
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) around the time this advice 
was being sought. 
I therefore think Mr Ws circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to the 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to potentially still retire earlier than the age of 65 if he felt he really 
needed to. Doing this from the position of BSPS2 was possible  there would have been an 
actuarial reduction involved, dependent on his age at the time. But his income requirements 
for his retirement appeared to be easily met, again, using IFMs own figures.
So, all this means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr W wouldnt want to continue with 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally 
intended. There was no apparent need to transfer to a personal pension plan.
Flexibility and control
IFM basically said hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits taken at retirement 
and also vary his retirement income. It also implied hed be able to bridge the gap between 
an early retirement at 57 and his state pension age which was 67.
But I cant see that Mr W required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by IFM. I therefore think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
There was also no evidence showing there was any income shortfall between the ages of 57 
and 67 and so no apparent need to give up a guaranteed pension for life with additional 
benefits, such as a spouses pension if he died first. And Ive seen no wider examples which 
showed Mr W required changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. He didnt, for 
example, have other forms of income from either himself or his wife which fluctuated and 
where an additional (or indeed, a lower) pension income might be needed to iron out 
irregular revenue.
Mr W also had already started a new and more flexible DC pension with his job. In my view, 
its easy to discount the value this added. I accept this DC pension was only a year or so old, 
but it was being substantially contributed to by both Mr W and his employer. Mr W would 
also have been able to increase contributions in the years ahead if he felt this was warranted 
as his current income surplus certainly seem to support this. And of course, if he had worked 
until the NRA, this might have contained over 10 years worth of benefits. Alternatively, if 
hed worked until, say, the age of 60 for example, he could have built up over 5 years worth 
of benefits. So, even though this secondary pension was a moderate affair, it could have contributed 
towards Mr W obtaining any flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr W could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing DB scheme of considerable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which 
tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Its fair to say that significant 
indexation guarantees were going to exist within BSPS2 and the scheme was still 
underpinned by the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a small DC scheme. 
Admittedly, this would have been over a much shorter period of time  but much would 
depend on future contribution rates and / or when Mr W eventually decided hed like to retire. 
He could have used his apparent disposable income to build this pension up ahead of 
retirement. I therefore think this secondary pension afforded Mr W a limited degree of 
flexibility which IFM didnt really consider or discuss with him.
Ive also seen no credible evidence that Mr W had either the capacity or desire to exercise 
control over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr W was being offered the opportunity to move 
into the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to 
the original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by 
trustees. The evidence here is that Mr W himself had little knowledge and experience of 
these types of money market investments and I think he would have found the complexity, 
scale and responsibility of managing around £580,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in 
the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr W would have required ongoing financial 
advice and support, all of which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require 
from him.
Overall, Ive seen nothing showing Mr W needed a flexible income. In my view, all the 
evidence shows the opposite: when retirement eventually came, Mr and Mrs W probably 
needed a steady income source. And as for his desire to control his pension, again, theres 
simply no evidence this was the case.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS and BSPS2 contained certain 
benefits payable to a spouse if Mr W died. Mr W was married. 
Prior to retiring and drawing benefits from the DB scheme, a payment based on Mr Ws 
contributions would have been payable as a lump-sum to Mrs W if Mr W pre-deceased her. 
If he died later, whilst drawing on the DB pension, Mrs W could have been paid at least half 
his pension for the rest of her life. As Ive explained earlier, theres no evidence recorded of 
Mrs W having her own personal pension. So, I think these types of benefit found in a DB 
scheme would have been of great comfort to Mrs W in the event of something unexpected 
happening to her husband.
Alternatively, I think the adviser discussed with Mr W that hed be able to pass on the whole 
value of a personal pension if he died, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. I think 
this was probably portrayed as a flexible and better death benefit for Mr W. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was 
to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think IFM really explored to what 
extent Mr W was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.Mr W was still only 55 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. Although Ive questioned the 
ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still relatively young, theres no real doubt that 
retiring at 57 was at least mentioned  IFMs defence of this complaint is effectively 
predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally known that a healthy male 
retiring at 57 would likely have many years ahead in which he would be drawing down his 
pension funds thus leaving less to pass on to someone.
I think life insurance was probably discussed in this case and Ive noted that whilst 
employed, Mr W had some death in service protection. Also, at 55 years old, a modest term 
life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable product for Mr W if he really 
did insist on leaving a lump-sum (rather than an annual pension) legacy for Mrs W, or indeed 
anyone else such as a child. Mr W could also have nominated a beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his new albeit much smaller DC scheme. Therefore, to that end, Mr W still had 
some options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
I can understand that when Mr W met with IFM he may have been concerned about the 
overall financial stability of the BSPS pension. Lots of his former colleagues at the time were 
considering transferring out of the scheme and he may have worried that his pension could 
end up in the PPF. However, if the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think the adviser 
should have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr W thought. 
He was never presented with critical yield figures relating to a comparison with the PPF but 
in my view, he was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed, the benefits available to him 
through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension plan. I dont think that this was 
properly explained to him. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to IFMs 
recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
Ive comprehensively considered the original complaint as put forward by Mr Ws adviser. It 
said the complaint [was] that a transfer into a private arrangement should not have been 
recommended  and that the nature of the benefits which could have been carried forward 
into British Steel Pension Scheme 2 are highly unlikely to be matched through the private 
arrangement which your firm recommended.
Our investigator originally issued a View upholding the complaint. But they said any redress 
ought to assume hed have transferred into the PPF. I can see their thinking was because 
we do know that in certain situations, particularly when an early retirement is considered 
imminent, the PPF often offered slightly higher benefits than the BSPS2. 
So, our investigator thought if suitably advised, a likely scenario would have seen Mr W 
moving into the PPF and then retiring early from that scheme at the age of 57. On the other 
hand, Mr Ws adviser has said that it could also be argued in this case that BSPS2 should be 
the comparative redress scheme we should use when awarding and calculating any redress. 
It implied that the higher redress of these two scenarios should be what Mr W should be 
awarded.Ive considered these views. Ive also looked carefully over all the documents we have. And I 
have taken a different view about how redress ought to be calculated. 
I do acknowledge that the age of 57 was mentioned as a potential retirement age during the 
advice sessions. But Ive also explained why I dont think this was necessarily set in stone  
the age of 57 was no more than a retirement aspiration. Also, even though I do accept that 
after transferring to the personal plan as recommended by IFM, Mr W did actually start to 
draw some benefits from his pension before what was his NRA of 65, I dont think this 
necessarily means the redress calculation should follow that logic.
This is because Ive explained that Mr Ws early retirement was aspirational. I also think that 
the only reason he went on to access some of the transferred benefits early was because 
IFM had effectively made this possible. In short, accessing the pension in his late fifties was 
only made possible by the unsuitable advice IFM had given to him. It advised him to transfer 
and so it created an opportunity which, in my view, shouldnt have ever existed in the way it 
did. 
I think its also important to take into account that whilst Mr W has accessed some benefits 
from his transferred pension, he hasnt started to drawdown his funds regularly as I 
understand it, as one might expect when drawing regular retirement income. 
So, I think if Mr W had been advised suitably, he would have moved to the BSPS2 and also 
delayed retirement beyond the age of 57. Hes still working now (aged over 60), albeit less 
hours. And as I understand it, his good health at the time of the advice would have 
supported him continuing to work for a little longer than 57, even if working in the steel 
industry wasnt something that would have been his most preferred choice at the time. So, 
what Im saying is that if the adviser had shown Mr W that remaining in a DB scheme such 
as BSPS2 was right for him, and also that some extended working beyond the comparatively 
young age of 57 would be advantageous, this would have been the much better financial 
prospect in the longer-term. It would have been much more in his best interests and I think 
Mr W would have agreed to this.
This leaves me considering that if not retiring at the age of 57 then when might he have 
retired? To simply pick an age would be rather speculative and Id be unwinding everything 
we know that has now happened as a result of unsuitable advice. What I can say is that Mr 
Ws original NRA was 65 and he should have been advised to move to the BSPS2 which 
also had an NRA of 65. The advice which effectively caused him to transfer and later to start 
taking some pension benefits early was flawed. He was also healthy and I know he has 
worked beyond the age of 57 and is still working, albeit reduced hours. 
On this basis I think its fair to award redress assuming retirement at the BSPS2s NRA  the 
age of 65.
Suitability of investments 
IFM recommended that Mr W invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised not to transfer and so the 
investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. As a regulated adviser being paid for this advice, IFMs job was to provide information and 
advice that was in Mr Ws best interests. Instead of assessing whether Mr W might meet his 
retirement objectives by becoming a member of BSPS2, the adviser focussed wholly on 
transferring away. 
Mr W was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. IFM 
failed to provide Mr W with critical yield figures that were personal to him. This conflicted with 
the guidelines of that time and meant that Mr W wasnt able to make an informed decision. 
Even so, the restricted information he was given about whether a transfer might be 
financially viable, strongly suggested that hed receive lower retirement benefits as a result 
of transferring away to a personal pension plan. 
I also dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. The implication that Mr W was certain to retire early wasnt borne out by the 
evidence. Neither was his apparent needs for flexibility and control of his funds, moving 
forward. These things werent properly defined and like the advice around death benefits, 
they represented nothing more than stock objectives used to justify the transfer-out 
recommendation. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity soon of opting into the BSPS2. I also don't 
think that it was in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr W would have retained the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he really needed to. The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think IFM should have taken a short time to consider all the changes in the 
BSPS and then duly advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that IFM disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against IFMs advice. I say this because Mr W was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for IFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. IFM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what the business based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
This pension at the time represented most of Mr Ws retirement provision. I believe the 
uncertainty and worrying impact of this unsuitable advice caused him distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore also order IFM to pay an additional £300 to Mr W.My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman