DRN-4130479
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr and Mrs B had with The Mortgage 
Works (UK) Plc (TMW). Mr B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout has complained 
about the following matters:
TMW failed to notify him that the fixed interest rate product on the mortgage was due to 
expire on 30 November 2022;
TMW failed to send details of new rates by post before the interest rate product expired;
after paying off the mortgage in December 2022 TMW failed to send a closure 
confirmation letter, or a statement of the mortgage from March-December 2022;
a refund of an overpayment wasnt made on time;
Mr B isnt happy about the way TMW handled his complaint.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs B want TMW to pay them compensation.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He noted TMW had sent a letter about expiry 
of the interest rate product to Mr and Mrs B on 13 October 2022. He was also satisfied that 
TMW had made Mr B aware that he could view available rates online, or speak to a 
mortgage broker.
The investigator noted that TMW had taken 14 days to process an overpayment refund after 
the mortgage was redeemed. He thought TMW should pay compensation of £75 for this. He 
also clarified that complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and so wasnt able to 
comment on this.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, Mr B said that hed had to 
borrow £30,000 from his daughter to help pay off the mortgage, who he had to pay back. In 
addition, although hed asked TMW to send a closing statement on 9 January 2023, it failed 
to do so. TMW had nothing further to say in response to the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
TMWs records show that a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs B in October 2022 reminding them 
that the interest rate product on their mortgage was due to end the following month. I accept 
what Mr B says  that he didnt receive this letter. However, non-delivery of mail would be 
the responsibility of Royal Mail, and isnt something within TMWs control.
TMW doesnt send details of new interest rate products through the post. Thats because 
rates can change overnight and so postal information isnt necessarily going to be accurate. 
Given this, Im satisfied that its reasonable for TMW to publish its available interest rates 
online. Mr and Mrs B could, if theyd wanted to, have selected a new rate online or through 
their own independent financial adviser.
Instead Mr and Mrs B decided to redeem the mortgage. That was a decision they were 
entitled to make, as the mortgage was outside the early repayment charge period from 
1 December 2022. Mr B said that he had to borrow £30,000 from his daughter towards the 
redemption. However, that was his choice, and so any cost or impact on Mr and Mrs B as a 
result of doing this isnt something for which I can hold TMW responsible.
I can see there were some customer service failings  not sending a closure confirmation 
letter, delay in sending a statement on the account for March-December 2022, and a slight 
delay in processing a refund. I agree with the investigator that £75 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for this.
I also note that Mr B isnt happy with the length of time TMW took to respond to his initial 
complaint, as it took more than 8 weeks for it to issue a final response. Our rules set out the 
matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, 
paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if were upholding the underlying complaint that a consumer believes was 
mis-handled and the issues with the complaint handling are directly linked, in which case the 
way the complaint was dealt with would be ancillary to the regulated activity. But a delay in 
TMW sending its final response letter isnt something that is ancillary to a regulated activity, 
and so I cant comment any further about this.
Putting things right
For its customer service failings, as detailed above, The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc must pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs B of £75. I make no other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I direct The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
to settle the complaint as detailed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman