DRN-3893839
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a Conditional 
Sale Agreement with Close Brothers Limited (CBL).
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In February 2022, Mr B acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with CBL. 
The car was registered in May 2016, which means it was nearly six years old and had 
travelled 14,316 miles when it was supplied to Mr B. The cash price of the car was £35,200, 
Mr B made an advanced payment of £3,520 so the total amount financed on this agreement 
was £31,680 payable over 60 monthly payments of £713.74
Within two weeks of having the car Mr B complained to CBL about some issues he was 
having with it. In February 2022 Mr B said he had the car inspected by a local garage which 
he said had advised him of the following issues:
Spacers on the wheels
Catalytic converters removed
Engine re-tuned
Rear differential seal leaking and damaged
Exhaust hanger broken
After market air filters were fitted
In addition to the above Mr B reported a restraint system warning light and a loose front trim.
CBL, advised Mr B could return the car as hed reported the issues within 14 days, however 
Mr B said the dealer didnt accept his rejection and disputed that there was anything wrong 
with the car.
CBL arranged for an independent inspection of the car which was carried out on 4 April 
2022. The inspection report concluded that the damage to the body and differential were 
likely to have been caused by the current owner due to grounding. The report also advised 
the modifications were likely to be part of the manufacturing process for that model of vehicle 
and considered the car to be fit for purpose. However, the report advised they didnt have 
sight of the catalytic converters as they were hidden behind covers.
Mr B said following the independent inspection, he received the car back on 20 April 2022 
and arranged for a further diagnostic of the car from a franchised dealer which was carried 
out the following day. The diagnostic report noted that the catalytic converters were missing, 
and that the engine had been re-tuned. The mileage noted on the diagnostic was 15,478.
On 29 April 2022 CBL issued their final response to Mr Bs complaint, which they didnt 
uphold. CBL referred to the independent inspection report which said the issues were 
caused due to grounding during the current ownership, and from in-service wear and tear.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr B brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr B 
says he wants to reject the car to put things right.
Having considered all the information, our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld, and concluded that a missing catalytic converter meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Our investigator recommended that CBL allow Mr 
B to reject the car, but to deduct reasonable costs for damage consistent with the 
grounding. Our investigator also recommended that CBL pay Mr B £150 in compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Mr B told our investigator in August 2022 (over the phone) that he removed the air fins 
himself as they were loose. However, he said that he accepted the view.
CBL responded to say that they had confirmation from the dealer that Mr Bs model of car 
wouldnt have regular catalytic converters. They also provided testimony that confirmed the 
catalytic converters were viewed during an MOT test which was carried out on the day it was 
supplied.
Mr B provided a further testimony from a local garage, that upon inspection on 21 February 
2022, noted passenger restraint issues and the catalytic converters had been removed. 
Having reconsidered the further information provided, our investigators outcome remained 
unchanged. Unhappy with our investigators view CBL asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.CBL supplied Mr B with a used car that had travelled 14,316 miles. With this in mind, I think 
its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be less than that 
of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be signs of wear and tear due to 
its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at £35,200 which isnt insignificant. It also 
wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect it could be used free from any major issues for a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from the diagnostic from the franchised dealer and from a local garage which both 
conclude that the catalytic converters had been removed. In relation to catalytic converters 
on vehicles, guidance provided by Government says: removing a catalytic converter.will 
almost certainly result in a vehicles emissions exceeding type approval limits and make the 
vehicle illegal to drive on the road 
I acknowledge the car passed a recent MOT which would have included an emissions 
check, however, based on the emissions standards, Im persuaded that a removed catalytic 
converter is not consistent with this, and so makes the car not fit for purpose and under the 
CRA, not of satisfactory quality. With this in mind, Ive considered whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B.
Catalytic converters
CBL said that the catalytic converters were present at the point of supply. CBL provided a 
statement from the MOT engineer, which confirmed the car had passed its emissions tests 
on 10 February 2022. The engineer also confirmed the catalytic converters were present 
during the MOT test, and on a second inspection carried out on 25 February 2022. 
The independent inspection report completed on 4 April 2022 said the catalytic converters 
were hidden behind a cover, so it couldnt be viewed. A statement provided from a local 
garage advised that following an inspection of the car on 21 February 2022 they found the 
catalytic converters had been removed, as did a diagnostic from the franchised dealer dated 
21 April 2022.
Catalytic converters are integral for a car to reach its emissions standard, and not doing so 
amounts to an offence.
Im presented with expert reports which contradict each other, so Ive taken into account 
what I think was most likely to have been the case based on the evidence Ive seen.
Two separate experts have said the catalytic converters had been removed, the franchised 
dealer and the statement from a local garage, and one professional independent inspection 
report said it couldnt be seen. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr B removed the 
component himself. So, from the evidence provided Im persuaded that the catalytic 
converters werent present when the car was supplied to Mr B. 
I acknowledge that we have conflicting evidence from the MOT engineer, however I 
recognise this is one expert advising of the contrary. And although Im unable to explain the 
contradiction, the evidence against the component being present at the point of supply, I find 
to be more compelling and persuasive. And so, under the CRA, Im satisfied the car was not 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B.
The independent inspection report and the testimony from the MOT engineer are consistent, 
in that the damage to the car appeared to be recent and was likely to have happened 
following the MOT on 10 February 2022. However, both also confirm the damage doesnt 
render the car unfit for purpose.Im persuaded by what the inspection report says, that the damage to the body and case 
differential was likely caused by grounding, for example over speedbumps, however I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say that this was caused by Mr B. In an email to our 
investigator in November 2022 Mr B also said he refuted that he tampered with or damaged 
the car in any way. Ive also seen no evidence which confirms the condition of the car prior 
to supply. In addition, since Mr B was supplied the car, he drove it for an additional 1,700 
miles. This was confirmed through a recent image of the mileage, provided by Mr B. With 
that being the case, I dont think itd be fair to say Mr B caused it through his driving. For 
example, theres nothing to say it couldnt have been present through in-service wear and 
tear prior to Mr B using the car.
Putting things right
Mr B told CBL that he wanted to reject the car, and this is confirmed in the final response 
and on their system notes in February 2022. Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory 
quality they do not conform to the contract. Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies 
available to the consumer for goods that do not conform. One of those remedies is the short 
term right to reject the goods.
CBL system notes confirm Mr B requested a rejection of the car within 30 days of being 
supplied the vehicle, so Im satisfied that this would be a fair outcome for Mr B. 
In the circumstances Ill be instructing CBL to collect the car at no extra cost to Mr B, unwind 
the finance agreement and refund to Mr B his deposit.
However, in the circumstances I also think Mr B should be refunded some of his monthly 
payments as the car was unusable. In an email to our investigator in January 2023 Mr B 
confirmed the car was still on his driveway.
Mr B has provided an image confirming the current mileage as 16,029, which is around 
1,700 more miles since it was supplied. I acknowledge Mr B believes the dealership have 
been using the car and has provided a video of the car being driven. However, without 
definitive evidence Im unable to hold CBL responsible for any specific amount of miles 
driven. So, I think its reasonable in the circumstances to expect Mr B to pay for the usage 
hes had.
All things considered, I think its fair to deduct four months usage, as this appears to be the 
only use Mr B had of the car. For example, the mileage has increased by about 1,700 since 
supply and 500 miles since the inspection in April 2022, which I think is reasonable to say 
amounts to about a further months usage. So, Ill be instructing CBL to refund to Mr B all the 
monthly repayments made from June 2022.
Mr B has also confirmed his insurance payments on the car. Mr B was paying insurance on 
a car he couldnt use. And as Ill be instructing CBL to facilitate a rejection of the car, I think 
CBL should reimburse to Mr B a portion of his insurance premium. Similar to the mileage, I 
think its fair to say Mr B had around four months usage of the car and so should pay for the 
insurance to reflect that period. Mr B provided an insurance schedule which confirmed he 
paid an annual premium of £2,462. four months is equivalent to 33% of the year so Ill be 
instructing CBL to reimburse Mr B with 66% of his insurance annual premium, which 
amounts to £1,624.92.
Mr B has described the inconvenience thats been caused as a result of the situation. Im in 
agreement with our investigator that £150 in compensation fairly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused. So, Ill be instructing CBL to pay that amount to Mr B.I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Mr B contacted our investigator for an update on his case, but didnt provide any additional 
comments with regard to my provisional decision. CBL responded to say that they disagreed 
with my provisional decision. CBL provided some further comments which Ill address below.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within their response CBL made the following points:
1. They disagreed that the evidence for the catalytic converters being removed prior to 
supply is stronger
2. In relation to the vehicle damage, CBL felt it would be unreasonable to say that the 
vehicle would have been purchased in that condition without raising it as an issue
The above is not exhaustive, but a summary of what I considered to be the main points 
raised in CBLs response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the 
information provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however, to maintain the 
informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues 
here.
CBL hasnt provided any further evidence to support their view on the catalytic converters. In 
their email theyve said that all their points have already been expressed on the matter. As 
no further evidence has been received, I see no reason to depart from my initial findings on 
the catalytic converters. And as such, Im satisfied from the evidence provided that the 
catalytic converters were not present when the car was supplied to Mr B.
In relation to the damage, CBL provided images which show some distortion and damage to 
the paintwork on the passenger side front grill area of the car. Although I acknowledge the 
damage is noticeable, Im not persuaded the extent of the distortion would have occurred 
within the time Mr B acquired the car, and particularly within the first month when he 
reported the issues. So, Im satisfied the damage in the images were likely to be present 
prior to supply. 
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Im also of the opinion that the 
grounding damage was also likely to have been caused prior to supply. Ive seen no 
evidence that shows Mr B caused it himself. I recognise the conclusions on the inspection 
report suggests it was a recent occurrence, however at the point of the inspection, Mr B had 
possession of the car for less than two months. Ive seen no evidence, for example in the 
form of images before and after supply to compare, and so I think its unreasonable to 
conclude that Mr B had caused it.
Having reviewed the further information, I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to 
change these. Therefore, for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. So, my final 
decision is the same.I recognise my decision is likely to be disappointing for CBL, however Im satisfied that this is 
the fairest outcome in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Close Brothers Limited to:
Collect the car at no additional cost to Mr B
End the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr B and remove it from his 
credit file
Refund to Mr B the deposit he paid
Refund to Mr B all the monthly repayments hes made towards the agreement from 
June 2022.
Reimburse to Mr B 66% of his annual insurance payment as set out in my decision
Pay Mr B £150 in compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused
Close Brothers Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds and 
reimbursements calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman