DRN-3981416
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited has failed to effectively manage his pension 
investments, resulting in them suffering a large fall in their value.
What happened
Mr W holds pension savings with Scottish Widows. In July 2022 he was sent an annual 
statement on his pension savings. That statement showed a significant drop in their value 
over the previous year. So Mr W got in touch with Scottish Widows by telephone to express 
his concerns about how his pension investments were being managed.
Scottish Widows explained to Mr W that his pension investments were held within a cautious 
lifestyle portfolio, and had been since 2012. His normal retirement date for the pension had 
initially been set as October 2016. But around that time Scottish Widows confirmed in a letter 
to Mr W that he had chosen to defer his normal retirement date to October 2026. It did 
however remind him that he would be able to take his pension benefits at an earlier date if 
he wanted.
Scottish Widows has said that Mr W was responsible for choosing the way in which his 
pension savings were invested. And it says that the fall in value in 2022 was as a result of 
widespread market falls in response to UK and Global economic and political environments. 
But it said the way in which Mr Ws pension savings were invested, in gilts and fixed funds, 
was entirely in line with a low-risk portfolio. So Scottish Widows didnt agree with Mr Ws 
complaint. But it did pay him £50 for some problems he had in speaking with its complaint 
handler.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Scottish Widows had done anything wrong that had led to a fall in the value of Mr Ws 
pension savings. She thought that the fall in value was due to market conditions, and 
regardless of how low risk investments might be there is always risk, and growth can never 
be guaranteed. So she didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it is important to first set out the basis of the relationship between Mr W and 
Scottish Widows. Mr Ws pension had been with the firm for many years, and his pension 
investments are set via a lifestyling approach. That means that Mr Ws pension investments 
alter as he approaches his normal retirement age to reduce their risk. But as I said above, in 
2016, Mr W agreed that his retirement date should be altered to 2026.
Scottish Widows is not Mr Ws financial advisor. So it simply acts on the instructions he 
provides. It isnt for Scottish Widows to ensure that any investment decisions are suitable for 
Mr Ws needs  those were essentially decisions he needed to make for himself. And I have 
seen that Scottish Widows website (or by post on request) provides comprehensive 
information for investors about the range of funds that are offered.
The regulator sets out the timing and content of the regular statements that need to be 
issued to pension investors. Generally that sort of communication needs to be issued at 
least once a year. I can see that Scottish Widows did provide that sort of information to 
Mr W. And as I said earlier, it was the receipt of his statement in 2022 that prompted Mr W to 
discuss the performance of his pension investments with Scottish Widows.
There is no doubt that the performance of Mr Ws pension investments will have caused him 
great disappointment. During 2022, the value of his pension investments fell. But those falls 
mirrored falls across a whole range of investment classes and were entirely outside the 
control of Scottish Widows. The information provided to investors about the funds into which 
Mr Ws pension savings were invested clearly set out that their values werent guaranteed, 
and might fall.
Given that Scottish Widows was not providing Mr W with any advice about his pension 
savings, it would not have been appropriate for it to contact him specifically about the 
change in value of any of his underlying investments. Doing so might reasonably lead a 
consumer to consider that Scottish Widows was recommending a change in the chosen 
investments. Information about the value of a pension investment is readily available either 
through online reporting, or from Scottish Widows directly.
So I dont think that I should hold Scottish Widows responsible for general falls in the market 
value of investments. I am satisfied that the underlying portfolio that supported the cautious 
lifestyle portfolio into which Mr Ws pension savings were invested was suitable for that level 
of risk. But, in 2022 in particular, there was uncommon volatility in those asset classes that 
led to the falls in value Mr W experienced. Those could not have been reasonably 
anticipated, and so wouldnt have been mitigated by any investment approach that was 
taken by Scottish Widows.
Ultimately it fell to Mr W to monitor his pension investments, and instruct Scottish Widows to 
make changes to his portfolio if he felt it had become unsuitable for his circumstances. 
I think that Scottish Widows has met its obligations in the information it provided to Mr W 
whilst he held his pension investments.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr W. But I dont think that 
Scottish Widows has treated him unfairly, or done anything wrong. So I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman