DRN-3608691
The complaint
Mr Fs unhappy with the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC dealt with his attempt to obtain a 
refund of money hed paid for a hotel booking using his credit card.
What happened
Mr F had two rooms reserved for a short stay at a UK hotel. He paid in full for the booking 
using his Tesco credit card. Unfortunately, the booking fell during a period in which the UK 
was subject to government lockdown restrictions. Mr F contacted the hotel seeking a refund, 
but was only able to recover the cost of one of the rooms. He was offered a voucher for use 
against a subsequent stay.
Mr F was dissatisfied with the hotels proposal and turned to Tesco for assistance. After 
some delay, for which the bank paid him £50 compensation, Tesco said it couldnt help Mr F 
to get his money back, saying that Mr Fs request for a refund amounted to cancellation of 
the booking. As the booking was non-refundable, Tesco said Mr F wouldnt have been able 
to recover his payment. Although Mr F complained to Tesco about its stance, the bank 
maintained its position and so he referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco had dealt with Mr Fs situation appropriately. He felt the 
bank was wrong to interpret Mr Fs refund request as a cancellation instruction. The hotel 
wasnt able to provide the accommodation as booked due to Covid-19 restrictions, and the 
investigator found that the card scheme rules and guidance suggest a chargeback claim 
would have been successful, had Tesco raised it.
The investigator felt the banks payment of £50 was fair in respect of delays in responding to 
Mr Fs claim. But he thought it reasonable that Tesco pay Mr F £295.20 with interest, 
representing the amount he was out of pocket.
Mr F said he would be happy to accept this proposal. But Tesco didnt agree to the 
investigators suggestion. It said:
it was obvious and not comprehensible that Mr Fs correspondence with the hotel 
amounted to him cancelling the booking.
the hotel didnt made the service unavailable. Rather, government restrictions had 
prevented Mr F from attending. The hotel couldnt be held liable in such an instance as it 
hadnt breached or cancelled their contractual agreement
As our investigator wasnt persuaded to reach a different conclusion, the dispute has been 
passed to me for review and determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Tesco has a fixed view of how Mr Fs request for a refund should be interpreted. 
But Im afraid I dont agree with the bank on this point. Mr Fs request for a refund must be 
considered in light of the circumstances in the UK that prevailed at the time of his intended 
stay. In March 2020, shortly before Mr Fs booking, the UK government issued The Health 
Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (The Regulations).
The Regulations severely restricted both the movement of people outside their homes and 
the provision of non-essential services across business sectors including the hospitality 
industry. Section 5(3) of The Regulations said (with limited specific exceptions that dont 
apply to Mr Fs booking):
a person responsible for carrying on a business consisting of the provision of holiday 
accommodation, whether in a hotel, hostel, bed and breakfast accommodation, holiday 
apartment, home, cottage or bungalow, campsite, caravan park or boarding house, must 
cease to carry on that business during the emergency period. 
The emergency period started on 26 March and continued over the period of Mr Fs booking. 
Taking into account the provisions of The Regulations, I see no basis on which Mr Fs hotel 
was legally permitted to provide him with the accommodation hed booked. In that context its 
entirely reasonable to consider Mr Fs request for a refund as being made because the 
contract between the parties was frustrated. The hotel wasnt able to perform its contractual 
obligation to accommodate Mr F.
Tesco appears to acknowledge this position in response to the investigator. So its really not 
clear why the bank has taken the stance it has in saying the hotel isnt liable to refund Mr F 
in such circumstances. Where a contract is frustrated  that is, unforeseen circumstances 
have made it impossible to perform  the usual remedy is that the parties are released from 
their contractual obligations. So the hotel wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Fs booking, and he 
would be restored to his original financial position by having his money back.
Tesco has said Mr F paid using a MasterCard credit card. So Ive looked at what the bank 
said about whether chargeback offered the opportunity of recovering his money. Having 
done so, I dont believe the bank considered the situation correctly, primarily because of its 
fixed position that Mr F cancelled the booking.
The MasterCard card scheme rules say that where goods or services arent received, the 
card issuer can submit a claim on behalf of the cardholder. In addition, MasterCard issued 
specific guidance in May 2020 in response to claims arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Given Tesco issued its response to Mr Fs claim in September 2020, it should have had 
regard for this guidance.
The MasterCard guidance suggests that in the circumstances at play in Mr Fs case, a 
chargeback right exists when services are cancelled due to government restrictions, and that 
a voucher or similar alternative can only be offered when so provided in the agreement or by 
the government legislation. While I note the hotel offered Mr F a voucher, Tesco hasnt 
provided anything to suggest that Mr Fs agreement with the hotel entitled it to do so. And 
the UK government didnt impose on businesses to provide vouchers in lieu of a refund.
Given the specific guidance, the hotels cancellation policy doesnt appear to be something 
that the card scheme would have accepted as a valid response to a chargeback claim  its 
not cited in the card scheme rules as a valid second presentment  and the issues of a 
frustrated contract wouldnt be fatal to recovery via chargeback. If anything, they would seem 
to suggest a refund would fall due.
Taking all of this into account, I see no reason to find that, had Tesco instigated a 
chargeback (as I am satisfied it should have done), this wouldnt have resulted in Mr F recovering his money. His claim was received within the applicable timescale. It follows that I 
find there were deficiencies in the way Tesco approached Mr Fs claim that led to him being 
treated unfairly. This unfair treatment has resulted in both financial loss and material distress 
and inconvenience to Mr F, for which the bank must compensate him.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Tescos poor handling of Mr Fs claim 
prevented him from recovering his payment as he should have done. The bank should 
compensate Mr F for this loss by paying him £295.20.
Mr F has been unfairly deprived of the use of his money since the point at which his claim 
should rightfully have been met. Allowing two months as a reasonable period for dealing with 
the chargeback appropriately, the bank should pay interest on that £295.20 calculated 
annually at 8% simple from 19 June 2020 to the date it pays this settlement.
Ive thought carefully about Tescos payment of £50 compensation, made in recognition of 
delays in reaching the outcome it did in respect of his claim. While our investigator felt this a 
fair sum, I dont think it adequately reflects the additional distress Mr F experienced due to 
the poor approach Tesco took to considering the relevant evidence in his claim. Ive decided 
the bank should pay him a further £100 to recognise that additional distress. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
must, within 28 days of receiving Mr Fs acceptance of it, take the following steps:
1. pay Mr F £295.20
2. pay interest on the sum in 1. calculated at 8% simple per year, from 19 June 2020 
until the date it pays this settlement. If Tesco Personal Finance PLC deducts tax from 
this interest, it should provide Mr F with an appropriate tax certificate
3. Pay Mr F £150 (inclusive of £50 already paid) in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced due to its handling of his claim 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman