DRN-4389202
The complaint
Mrs Q complains about the service she received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
regarding an information request. She says despite doing what Santander asked she spent 
an unreasonable amount of time on the phone, was given incorrect information and her 
account was blocked resulting in her being unable to pay for petrol or groceries or leave the 
house. Mrs Q wants to be compensated for her loss of earnings due to Santanders 
mistakes.
What happened
Mrs Q holds an account with Santander jointly with her husband. Santander contacted Mrs Q 
on 3 November requesting an update of information from her and her husband in relation to 
their account. On 14 November Mrs Q called Santander on the number provided in the letter 
to provide the information requested. 
Mrs Q says the number provided was inaccurate which resulted in being re-directed to 
another department and having to join more queues and that the whole call took four hours. 
Santander requested Mrs Q provide it with a number of documents and sent her a link to 
upload the documents. 
On 1 December Santander called Mrs Q as the requested documents had not been provided 
and told Mrs Q that these were required for the account not to be blocked.
Mrs Q says she spent some time gathering the documents together but subsequently, 
discovered that the documents Santander had requested during this call were incorrect and 
by the time she had the documents needed the link received from Santander to upload the 
documents no longer worked. Mrs Q says she spent a further 3 hours on the phone to 
Santander attempting to request another link and before this could happen the department 
she needed to talk to closed for the day and was told she would have to call back.
Mrs Q received another link without having to call Santander and uploaded the documents 
on Thursday 8 December, but Santander say it was only a partial selection of the required 
documents, so a block was placed on the account on the same day for a maximum of four 
days.
On Saturday 10 December when Mrs Q went to pay for petrol her card was declined. Mrs Q 
called Santander who advised that her account had been frozen and was told nothing could 
be done until the Monday. This left Mrs Q extremely distressed as she was unable to pay for 
the petrol and she had to return the food she planned on buying for her children and had no 
access to any money for the weekend.
Mrs Q complained to Santander about this on Monday 12 December and the block was 
immediately removed. Santander admitted that it made a mistake in putting the block on Mrs 
Qs account because she had provided all the information requested. Santander 
compensated Mrs Q £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its error.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Qs concerns and thought that the offer of £300 
compensation was fair and reasonable to address the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Santanders error in putting a block on Mrs Qs account and didnt think Santander needed to 
do anything more. 
Mrs Q disagreed, she doesnt think the compensation is enough. Mrs Q wants to be 
compensated financially for the time she says she had to take off work to sort this out. Mrs Q 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how it meets its legal and regulatory 
requirements regarding customer identities or the business hours it operates. Ultimately, 
how a bank runs its business and the processes it has in place are commercial decisions 
and isnt something for me to get involved with. We offer an informal dispute resolution 
service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mrs Q has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs Q unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs Q 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
And while I wouldnt tell a business what its regulatory requirements were and how it needed 
to meet them  I would expect it to put reasonable measures in place to ensure these 
requirements (in this case satisfying itself of its customers identity) were met. 
I accept Mrs Q was inconvenienced by this and the need to provide certain information in a 
certain way. But ultimately this is something Santander needed to do to meet its regulatory 
and legal obligations. So I cant say Santander did anything wrong when it requested Mrs Q 
provide it with certain information. And I think Mrs Q understands and accepts this and that 
she will have to sometimes spend time dealing with such matters. What Mrs Q objects to is 
the amount of time this information request took to sort out and the mistakes Santander 
made on the way. 
Santander has already agreed that it made a mistake in putting a block on Mrs Qs account 
and compensated Mrs Q £300 for this. So I dont think I need to make a finding here. What I 
need to consider is whether the compensation paid to Mrs Q for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced is enough.  
I appreciate how frustrated Mrs Q is about all of this.  But things dont always go smoothly 
and our role isnt to penalise or punish a business when a business makes a mistake  
rather it is to try and put the consumer in back in the position they wouldve been in if the 
mistakes had not have happened. 
The block was removed from Mrs Qs account on the Monday morning. So Mrs Q was put 
back into the position shed been in if the mistake had not happened. So what I have to 
consider is whether the £300 compensation Santander has paid Mrs Q was enough for the 
distress and inconvenience caused  and I think it was.  I think it is likely Mrs Q was inconvenienced more than she needed to be in trying to provide 
Santander with the information it required. But regardless of any of the mistakes Santander 
may have made here  providing this information was always going to be an inconvenience. 
I also note that Mrs Q first received notice that Santander needed information and 
documents from her on 3 November, but it wasnt until 14 November she responded. I also 
note that she still hadnt provided this information on 1 December when Santander called her 
to chase this up. So while I accept Mrs Q might have taken some time during her work day 
to contact Santander regarding the matter, Im not persuaded that all of this had to be done 
during her working hours or that the length of time this took to resolve was down to 
Santander alone.
So on this basis I think the £300 compensation Santander has already paid for distress and 
inconvenience Mrs Q experienced is fair and in-line with what Id usually recommend in 
situations such as this, so Im not going to ask it to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what Santander UK Plc has already offered 
to settle Mrs Qs complaint is a fair way to settle her complaint and I do not require it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman