DRN-2083940
The complaint
Mr C complains that Ald Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (Ald) unfairly 
invoiced him end of contract charges when returning a car at the end of a lease agreement.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr C entered into a three-year lease agreement for a new car with Ald. 
As the lease was coming to an end, arrangements were made for the car to be collected. On 
collection, and in line with the terms of the agreement, the car would be inspected, and any 
damage found that was beyond fair wear and tear would be invoiced to Mr C.
In August 2019 the car was collected. Mr C says he accepted there would be charges for a 
hole in the drivers carpet, missed services and excess mileage. He says he was told by the 
inspector that the car was in good condition and that no damage to the bodywork was raised 
with him. He also says he was given a checklist to sign which also didnt note any damage.
Mr C says he was shocked to later receive an invoice from Ald that included charges for 
damage to the cars bonnet and nearside rear door as well as the expected items of the 
carpet, missed services and excess mileage.
Mr C complained to Ald. Ald didnt uphold his complaint and said that the car had been 
collected and inspected in line with the agreement. The process was that an agent for the 
company that had collected the car on Alds behalf would compile a report as to its condition 
and would obtain a signature from the consumer to complete that report. It said when 
assessing damage, the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
would be applied as these guidelines were used across the industry to establish what is and 
is not fair wear and tear. Ald said the damage to the bonnet and door exceeded what would 
be considered fair wear and tear under those guidelines and in accordance with section 10.3 
of the lease agreement Mr C was responsible for the cost of repair.
Mr C disagreed with Alds view of his complaint. He complained to this service and said the 
damage had been recorded after the car had been collected but at the actual collection the 
inspector hadnt raised any issues with him. Mr C said there was no evidence the damage 
hadnt occurred after the car had been handed over.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He said under 
the terms and condition of the lease it was permissible for the car to undergo a full inspection 
after collection. The BVRLA guidelines also recognised that later inspections as to the 
condition of the car were not unusual. The report signed by Mr C when the car had been 
collected contained a clause that said it may not be possible to identify all the damage on 
collection and so a full inspection would be conducted afterwards. Our investigator said he 
didnt think carrying out the later inspection of the car had been unfair,
Our investigator said that looking at the evidence, which included photos of the bonnet and 
door, he accepted that the damage was beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear 
under the BVRLA guidelines. He said he didnt think Ald had acted unfairly in charging Mr C 
for the damage found.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator, he said there wasnt any evidence that the 
damage hadnt occurred after the car had been collected.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly that because the damage to the bonnet and door of the car 
was identified after the car had been collected its unfair for him to be charged for these 
repairs. However, l dont think its unusual for damage to be highlighted after a car has been 
collected and I think its clear from both the terms and conditions of the lease and the report 
that Mr C had signed, that the car will be further inspected. 
Here, at the point of collection the agent did prepare a report on the cars condition which 
Ive seen was signed by Mr C. This lists 15 areas where the car had sustained scuffs, 
scratches or chips and indicated their location on a map of the cars bodywork. On this list 
appears the bonnet and nearside door. There was also a set of photos taken although these 
dont provide proof of the size of the scratches by using a ruler to indicate their length or 
width. 
On the car being returned, further photographs were then taken, and this time rulers were 
placed close to the damage found to show the size of scratches found on the door and 
bonnet. The length of a scratch is important when considering whether they are beyond fair 
wear and tear. Its accepted that the bodywork of a car will, overtime, sustain some signs of 
wear and so very small scratches are acceptable but where the scratch is over 25mm in 
length or multiple in number then the damage becomes beyond what would reasonably be 
expected. Looking at the photos and the BVRLA guidelines I am satisfied that the damage 
found was beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr C says there isnt any evidence the damage didnt occur after the car was collected but 
Im afraid I disagree. The agent collecting the car has recorded they found damage to the 
bonnet and door. Mr C appears to have signed that report. So, although the car was subject 
to a later more in-depth inspection and the damage photod, Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not what these photos show was the damage that was present when the car was 
collected.
So, for the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 01 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman