DRN-4388801
The complaint
Ms F complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue) provided her fianc for a car when it 
shouldnt have. She says she was struggling financially and couldnt afford the repayments. 
Ms F also complains that Blue paid commission to the car dealer and didnt make her aware 
of this.
To resolve her complaint Ms F wants Blue to reduce the interest in the car loan as and to 
refund the commission paid to the dealer
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case where I set out a detailed background to this 
complaint and explained my findings and my provisional conclusions. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to provide further evidence or comments before I issue my final decision. My 
provisional decision should be read along side this decision as it forms part of my final 
decision.
The relevant part of my provisional decision is in italics below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two key aspects to this complaint, and I will deal with each one in turn.
Was the hire-purchase agreement affordable for Ms F?
Blue is aware of its obligations under the regulators rules for responsible lending. I say this
because it has quoted CONC 5.2A in its response to the adjudicators view. As this is the
case, I dont intend to repeat its obligations to lend responsibly but I will summarise it.
Blue needed to make sure that its lending was responsible such that Ms F could meet the
obligations of the agreement over its term in a way that didnt have a negative impact on her
finances. To do this, Blue needed to carry out reasonable checks on Ms Fs financial
circumstances, these checks had to be customer focussed.
Blue has provided evidence to show it searched Ms Fs credit file, considered her income,
and looked at her bank statements to consider her affordability. It said it specifically
considered the availability of the car deposit  around £25,714.
In its final response letter, Blue says Ms F declared her monthly income as £4,800 which it
says it checked her P60 to verify this. Blue has provided a copy of the P60 and from what I
can see, Ms Fs monthly income was significantly lower that what was declared and closer to
around £3,880 after tax. From the bank statements provided Ms Fs income on average over
the three months prior to the loan was around £2,915. I can see that in November 2018, she
received work and child tax credit of around £831.56 but this didnt appear to be a regular
source of income as it didnt appear on subsequent bank statements.
Ms F also declared she had two other properties she rented out and the rent was used to
repay the mortgages for those properties. Ms F has also provided her credit union savings
account statements and statements of an account she held in trust on behalf of her
daughter. Ms Fs credit union account statement shows she had a balance of around
£25,000.
Blues underwriter thought its checks showed Ms F could afford the monthly repayment of
the loan and the balance in her credit union account suggested she had sufficient funds to
pay the deposit.
Overall, I think Blues checks went far enough and so Ive considered whether it made a
responsible lending decision based on the results of its checks.
Ms Fs bank statements show her monthly living costs were on average around £1,862, this
includes the mortgage payment on the property she lived in. Ms Fs credit commitments
were £317 and a combined credit card balance of around £12,194. Aside from her credit
union account, Ms Fs accounts either had low or negative balances and she mainly moved
money around those accounts. Ms Fs bank statement also show she borrowed a loan of
around £15,000 in February 2019, which shes told us she used to towards the deposit for
the car.
On this basis, while it appeared Ms F had a lot of money coming into her account and her
credit union account appeared to have a large balance, this wasnt the reality. Ms F had to
borrow to pay the deposit for the car and even if she hadnt taken out the loan for the
purpose of paying the deposit, shed have had to empty her credit union savings account to
afford the around £25,000 deposit for the car. Bearing in mind her average income and
monthly living costs and credit commitments, she couldnt meet the monthly repayment of
over £1,300.
Having carefully looked at Ms Fs bank statements, most of the money was moving between
her accounts and she had little to no credit balance available. Shes also had to borrow to
afford the deposit.
I think Blues checks showed sufficient concern Ms F wouldnt be able to afford this loan and
I dont think it should have lent to her. So, Im therefore intending to uphold this complaint.
In circumstances where a borrower was provided with finance to purchase goods  such as
a car  that they were unable to afford to make the payments for we typically direct the
lender to do something different from what we would ask it to do in cases where cash funds
were irresponsibly lent. In cases involving a car, its usually appropriate for the car to be
returned, the agreement be terminated, and for the lender to return the payments the
borrower made, less a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the borrower having had use of
the vehicle for a period.
However, having considered the statement of account provided by Blue, Im mindful that the
payments Ms F has already made exceed the amount Blue lent to her. As this is the case
and given there are additional costs in recovering a vehicle and then selling it to generate
the funds to clear a loan, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue to compensate
Ms F in the way that I would expect a lender to, should it have irresponsibly provided a
customer with cash.
So, Im currently minded to tell Blue to refund all of the interest, fees and charges Ms F paid
as a result of this hire-purchase agreement, plus interest at 8% per year simple. In other
words, Im planning to tell Blue to refund any payments it received over and above the
£50,000.00 it lent, plus interest at 8% per year simple from when any overpayments were
made. Blue will also need terminate this hire-purchase agreement (if it hasnt already done
so) and transfer ownership of the vehicle to Ms F. Finally, Blue will also need to remove any
adverse information it may have recorded about this agreement from Ms Fs credit file.
Ms Fs complaint regarding any commission Blue may have paid to the broker bringing about
this hire-purchase agreement.
I must start by saying I have found the information provided by Blue in relation to any
commission payment contradictory. It initially told this service there was no commission paidtowards this transaction and then it said it paid a flat commission on £3,000. There are also
parts of its documentation that suggest the commission model may have been different.
In any event, regardless of the contradictory information provided, Ive nonetheless already
found that Blue shouldnt have entered into this agreement with Ms F as it ought to have
realised that it was unaffordable for her. Im satisfied that my proposed method of putting
things right for Ms F, as a result of this, effectively places her in the position she would now
be in had her agreement never existed. I think that this also unwinds the impact of any
commission that Blue might have paid to the broker for introducing Ms F.
As this is the case, I dont think there is any need for me to look at the complaint about
commission as upholding this part of the complaint wouldnt make a difference to the overall
outcome.
Fair compensation  what Im intending to direct Blue to do to put things right for
Ms F
Having thought about everything, Im currently minded to direct Blue to put things right for
Ms F by:
Terminating the hire-purchase agreement (if it has not already been) and transferring
ownership of the vehicle to Ms F.
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the balance from the outset. The
payments Ms F made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the
£50,000.00 originally lent. Any payments Ms F made after she paid the £50,000.00
Blue lent, should be treated as overpayments and refunded.
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were
made by Ms F to the date of settlement
Removing any and all adverse information it recorded about this agreement from
Ms Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue to take off tax from this interest. Blue must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
The time limit to respond has now passed. Neither party had any further evidence and 
comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided further comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
Blue lent to Ms F when it shouldnt have, and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, Blue should:
Terminate the hire-purchase agreement (if it has not already been) and transferring
ownership of the vehicle to Ms F.
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the balance from the outset. The
payments Ms F made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the
£50,000.00 originally lent. Any payments Ms F made after she paid the £50,000.00
Blue lent should be treated as overpayments and refunded.
Add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they weremade by Ms F to the date of settlement
Remove any and all adverse information it recorded about this agreement from
Ms Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue to take off tax from this interest. Blue must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and 
direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman