DRN-4397007
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In early 2022, three online purchases were attempted from Mr Bs Nationwide current 
account to a well-known merchant. The last was declined, but the first two went through, 
totalling around £1,600. They were made from Mr Bs usual IP address, using his card 
details and codes generated by his card and PIN in a card reader.
Mr B says these were probably made by his ex-partner, who lived with him at the time, and 
wouldve had access to a record of his card details and PIN which he kept at home. His card 
was kept with him and was in his possession, as was his phone, though his ex knew his 
phones passcode. He and his ex-partner were in different places until later that day. No one 
else had access to his online banking.
Nationwide held Mr B liable for the payments in dispute. Mr B came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Nationwide can hold Mr B liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that he authorised them.
According to Nationwides technical evidence, the payments in dispute were made from the 
same IP address Mr B used for his online banking before and after, using a code generated 
by his genuine physical card and the correct PIN in a reader. In order to generate this code, 
the reader needed to read the physical chip in Mr Bs real card  this was not done with a 
cloned card. So as far as I can see, these transactions were properly authenticated.
Ill then consider whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr B consented to the 
transactions, or not.
The first possibility Ive considered is that the payments were made by someone who Mr B 
didnt know  i.e. a third-party thief or fraudster. The payments were made from Mr Bs IP 
address, with no signs of hacking or unauthorised use. They also used his physical card. 
Mr B said the card was in his possession at the time, and I can see this was the case as he 
used it to make payments in physical shops shortly before the disputed payments, and still 
had it afterwards. So it wasnt in a third partys possession. And theres no likely or plausible 
way an unknown party wouldve known Mr Bs PIN here. We can be satisfied that the 
disputed payments were not made by any unknown party.
Next, Ive considered the possibility that someone known to Mr B  i.e. his ex-partner as he 
suggested  made the transactions without his permission. I accept its possible that they 
may have had access to a record of Mr Bs card details and PIN.
However, again, the transactions were authenticated using Mr Bs real physical card. Mr B 
previously confirmed he kept the card with him and it was in his possession at the time. And 
I can see that was the case as he used his physical card for in-person payments shortly 
before the disputed payments, then he confirmed he still had it with him when he spoke to 
Nationwide very shortly after the disputed payments. Its not likely or plausible that his ex-
partner was able to take, use, and replace Mr Bs card, all without him noticing, and in such 
a tight timeframe  not least when Mr B said that he and his ex-partner were in different 
places and were not physically together at the time of the payments.
Similarly, while less conclusive, the technical evidence also indicates that the disputed 
payments were made from Mr Bs usual device, at the same IP address he used for online 
banking. There is no evidence of any hacking or unauthorised use, and Ive not found any 
likely or plausible method by which the ex-partner could have bypassed the security involved 
here. Again, Mr B confirmed that he had his device with him, and I can see thats the case as 
he logged into his online banking using his biometric fingerprint just minutes after the last 
disputed payment, from the same IP address. While this is a more minor point than the use 
of the card, it again does significantly indicate that these payments were authorised.
Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr B couldve 
authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them. While they 
were made relatively quickly, there was sufficient time to put them through properly and  
again  I can see they were indeed properly authenticated. I dont find the declined payment 
to be proof of fraud  authorised payments do get declined sometimes, and here the last 
attempted payment was larger than the accounts credit balance.
Lastly, I appreciate that Mr B wants Nationwide to get evidence from the merchant. But 
Nationwide dont regulate or police merchants and cant compel them to give evidence. 
While Nationwide could technically have done a chargeback with the merchant, those are 
voluntary and can only work under certain strict circumstances  none of which apply here  
so I do not think they needed to do a chargeback. In any case, as I set out above, Ive found 
that Nationwide already had sufficient evidence that these payments were authorised.In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Bs genuine card details, physical card, PIN, and IP 
address were used. It also looks like his device was used. Based on the evidence, there isnt 
a likely or plausible way that an unknown person did this, and its not likely that someone 
known to Mr B did this without his permission either. That leaves only one likely possibility  
that Mr B made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make them. Which 
means its fair for Nationwide to decline a refund. This is a difficult message for me to give, 
and I know its a difficult message for Mr B to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman