DRN-2976723
The complaint
Mr R, as director of W, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined Ws claim for 
losses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
W had the benefit of a commercial insurance policy. Covea were one of the underwriters if 
this policy. W closed its businesses in March 2020 due to the national government-imposed 
lockdown intended to control the spread of COVID-19. A claim was made on the policy for 
the loss of income resulting from this.
Covea declined the claim. It said that whilst the policy did provide cover in relation to certain 
diseases, this was limited to a specified set of diseases and this did not include COVID-19. 
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld though. She agreed that the 
policy covered only a specific list of diseases and that, as COVID-19 was not included in that 
list, Coveas decision to decline the claim under this extension was fair and reasonable. The 
investigator also felt that the other relevant cover provided by the business interruption 
section of the policy required there to have been Damage that had led to the interruption. But 
that no Damage had occurred which had led to the interruption. So, she did not consider it 
would be fair to expect Covea to have met Ws claim under this cover either. 
Mr R remained unsatisfied. He said the word Damage should not be restricted to physical 
damage or destruction. And that the loss of use of Ws premises falls into the meaning of this 
term. As W had, temporarily, lost the use of its premises for the purpose of carrying out its 
business, he feels the claim should be covered. Our investigator was not persuaded to 
change her conclusions though, so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on W. But for
substantially the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding Ws complaint. Ill
explain why.
The starting point with any complaint about an insurance claim is to consider the contract of 
insurance the claimant has, and to apply the circumstances of the claim to the terms of that 
contract. So, the starting point is to consider the specific policy W had.
As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy W held with Covea to determine whether 
there are any sections that would require Covea to meet a claim like the one W is making. 
Having done so, I dont think there are.
Although Mr R has referred to the material damage section of Ws policy, no property has 
required reinstatement or indemnifying. I will deal below with the issue of whether property 
has suffered Damage, as defined within the policy. But the losses W has sustained are 
based on a loss of income as a result of having been closed, rather than for example the 
cost of repairing damaged property. 
As such, the type of cover W is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There 
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. 
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. 
Ws policy provides cover for loss of income as a result of several things. The main business 
interruption section, along with a number of the additional covers to this section, effectively 
requires there to have been Damage to property which caused the interruption. 
The core business interruption provides cover for:
Business Interruption occurring in the Indemnity Period following an Incident during 
the Period of Insurance caused by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under 
Material Damage Section
Whilst Mr R has referred to the interpretation of the courts on the meaning of terms such as 
incident, each of the capitalised terms has been defined within the policy. As such, they 
would need to be interpreted in line with those specific definitions. Incident is defined as; an 
Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at the Premises. 
And the Specified Perils are a number of particular causes listed in the Material Damage 
section of the policy. These perils include things like fire, flood, etc. 
So, effectively, the main business interruption cover requires there to have been an event of 
Damage, caused by one of the perils listed in the Material Damage section, that has led to 
an interruption of Ws business. None of these Specified Perils covers a circumstance such 
as the COVID-19 pandemic or the Governments response to this.
Further extensions to the main business interruption section, including the Denial of Access 
extension, also require there to have been Damage that has been caused by an Incident as 
insured by the business interruption section  i.e. one caused by a Specified Peril. The 
Damage in these extensions relates to property at locations other than Ws premises. In the 
case of the Denial of Access extension, property within the vicinity of the premises. But the 
initial underlying requirement remains that there has been some Damage and that this has 
caused an interruption to the business of the policyholder.
It is for W to show that it has a valid claim. As such, the first thing that needs to be shown is 
that there has been Damage, which has led to an interruption of Ws business. 
Damage is defined within the policy as; physical loss or destruction of or damage to 
Property. And Property is defined as material property. 
Mr R has argued that as well as destruction of or damage to property, this definition includes 
the loss of use of property. He has suggested that when W was prevented from using its 
property, as a result of the government-imposed measures introduced to limit the spread of 
COVID-19, W lost the use of its property. I do appreciate this point. But I do not agree that the temporary inability to use the premises 
is covered by the definition of Damage within Ws policy. In reaching this conclusion I have 
taken into account the relevant law, including the case of TKC London Ltd v Allianz 
Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm). Having done so, I think the physical loss of 
material property, which is effectively what the policy requires, refers to a situation where the 
recovery of that property is uncertain. Whilst W may not have been able to use its premises 
for the purpose of its business, this was a temporary situation and they were later able to 
use their premises. So, I dont think it can be said that W suffered a physical loss of material 
property.
And I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, it is possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage. Destruction would require property to have been destroyed.
It is possible that SARS-CoV-2 was present in Ws premises, either in the air on or surfaces. 
But it is normal that viruses generally exist on surfaces and in the air. And the Governments 
guidance on cleaning during the Covid-19 pandemic didnt recommend any cleaning by a 
specialist. There is no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 on any relevant 
property. And the mere presence of any particular virus is not automatically damage. In my 
view, it wouldnt constitute damage to property unless it impacted the property in the way Ive 
mentioned above, and there is no evidence that SARS-CoV-2 has caused any physical 
change or altered the state of any property. And it has not destroyed any property.
Additionally, even if there could be said to be Damage to either W or, for example, one of its 
suppliers property, this would need to have been as a result of a Specified Peril. The closure 
of premises following the government lockdown was not such a Specified Peril. 
Ultimately, I havent seen any evidence that COVID-19 caused damage to either Ws 
property or property within its vicinity. And, whilst W has no doubt suffered a loss of income, 
this was not in consequence of a permanent loss of any property. Additionally, whilst I dont 
think temporary loss of use of property would be Damage, even if it was this wasnt caused 
by one of the Specified Perils.
As such, I dont think Covea acted inappropriately when declining Ws claim under this area 
of cover.
As well as a number of extensions reliant on there being Damage, Ws policy wording also 
includes an extension to the business interruption cover relating to infectious diseases. 
However, Ws policy schedule shows that insurance for this extension was not included in 
Ws cover. As such, I have not discussed this extension in detail here. 
However, it should be noted that the cover provided by this extension is for claims resulting 
from a specified list of diseases. The term Disease is defined within the policy section as 
having a particular meaning and the definition lists the diseases covered. This list does not 
include COVID-19, so this extension would not have covered Ws claim had this cover been 
included. 
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ws policy. But I dont consider Ws claim 
ought to have been met under any of them. So, having considered all the circumstances of 
this case, whilst I am sorry for the position W finds itself in, I am persuaded Coveas decision 
not to meet Ws claim was fair and reasonable.
I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr R, but I hope Ive provided him with a 
thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Ws claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf of 
W, to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman