DRN-3818943
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of a trust set up as part of advice to take out a life and 
critical illness cover policy. Responsibility for the sale of the policy now sits with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited. 
What happened
Mr H seems to have realised his policy was held in trust in 2021, when he was looking into 
cashing the policy in. Aviva told him any payments from the policy would go to the trustees 
to handle. 
Mr H has complained that a trust is unsuitable, given his policy includes critical illness cover. 
He feels by having the proceeds of the policy pass to the trustees, hes going to lose the 
benefit of that part of the policy. 
Aviva have explained that the trust documentation confirms that Mr H is the beneficiary of 
any payment from the critical illness cover. But he wont benefit from the life cover, or if the 
policy is cashed in. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, and has explained to Mr H why they didnt 
uphold it. Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Looking at the document from 1992 that set up the trust, I can see it included instructions 
about what should happen to any lifetime benefit paid by the policy. It said any proceeds 
should be held by the trustees for Mr Hs benefit. 
That tells me that although Aviva would pay any proceeds to the trustees, theyd then be 
under an obligation to see that Mr H benefited from that money. As such, I dont agree with 
the main premise of Mr Hs complaint that he cant benefit from the critical illness cover. Hes 
the only person who can benefit from it. 
I note too that Mr H is a trustee here. That means he should have an input in and awareness 
of the actions the trustees take to fulfil their obligations to the trusts beneficiaries.
Ive thought more generally about the trust being used here. It seems to also direct the 
trustees to hold any other benefits from the policy for the benefit of Mr Hs family, rather than 
for him. 
Thats a reasonable approach to take, given it allows his family access to the money without 
having to apply for probate or account to any creditors with a claim against Mr Hs estate. It 
would also  if applicable  mean any money wouldnt be considered as part of Mr Hs estate 
for inheritance tax. 
These benefits justify the use of a trust, even though thats now affected Mr Hs ability to 
cash the policy in and receive a benefit himself. Its consistent with the focus of the policy 
being protection for his family, rather than a way for Mr H to save or invest for the future. 
Looking at the records from the fact-finding exercise completed when Mr H was advised to 
have this policy, I can see thats in line with his objectives at the time. While Mr H may now 
have different priorities, I cant see that Aviva could have factored those in when this product 
was set up back in 1992. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman