DRN-4063640
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) have
continued to administer his credit account.
What happened
Mr H brought a complaint to this service in October 2020 as he felt that Amex had lent to him
irresponsibly by increasing his credit limit and providing credit to him which he couldnt
afford. This original complaint was viewed by one of our investigators, and then by myself,
wherein I upheld the complaint in Mr Hs favour and issued instructions to Amex as follows:
Amex must reimburse to Mr Hs account all interest, fees, and charges accrued or
incurred on Mr Hs account from the point of the credit limit increase in December
2014 onwards for any portion of the balance on the account above the credit limit
amount prior to that increase.
If these reimbursements result in a cash balance in Mr Hs favour, this must be paid
to Mr H along with 8% simple interest, calculated from the date of the transaction to
the date of payment to Mr H.
Conversely, if following these reimbursements, a cash balance remains outstanding
for Mr H to pay, Amex should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable interest free
repayment plan based on what Mr H can reasonably afford to pay. Any agreed
payment plan should include regular reviews, if appropriate.
Amex must also remove all adverse reporting to Mr Hs credit file from December
2014 onwards.
Subsequently, while Amex made the reimbursements and removed the adverse credit file
reporting as instructed, Amex didnt then contact Mr H to arrange a suitable interest free
repayment plan with him. And Amex also reapplied a default to Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H contacted Amex about the default, at which time it was removed by Amex, only to be
re-added by Amex shortly afterwards. This pattern continued for several months, at which
time Mr H raised a new complaint about Amexs failure to comply with the instructions issued
by this service in regard to his earlier complaint.
Amex looked at this new complaint, but felt they had complied with the instructions as given
on the earlier complaint and didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly. Our investigator felt
differently, and felt that because Amex hadnt contacted Mr H to arrange a suitable interest
free repayment plan, and had reported further adverse information to Mr Hs credit file, that
they hadnt complied with the previous instructions, and so recommended that Amex should
ensure that all adverse reporting was removed from Mr Hs credit file in line with previous
instructions and that Amex should make a payment of £500 to Mr H as compensation for the
continuing upset and inconvenience this matter had caused.
With no agreement as to how this matter should be resolved being reached, the complaint
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2023 as follows:
Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Hs favour as it seems
clear and apparent that Amex didnt comply with the instructions issued to them
previously in September 2021 regarding Mr Hs earlier complaint.
Specifically, Amex didnt contact Mr H themselves following those instructions to
arrange a suitable interest free repayment plan with him for the balance he remained
liable to pay. Additionally, while Amex did remove all adverse credit file reporting
from Mr Hs credit file from December 2014 onwards, in compliance with my
instructions, they then added further adverse reporting shortly afterwards  thus
falling out of compliance with my instructions.
Amex have said that Mr H himself contacted the third-party debt-recovery agency
(DRA) that theyd instructed to recover the balance of Mr Hs account and arranged
a £50 per month payment plan with them, and that because this monthly payment
amount wasnt sufficient to meet the minimum monthly payment requirements it was
appropriate for the default to be repeatedly readded to Mr Hs credit file as it was.
And Amex have provided a letter between the DRA and Mr H dated 22 June 2020 as
evidence of this.
However, given that the letter Amex seek to rely on here is from June 2020, and so
relates to an event that took place over a year before I issued my previous final
decision and instructions in September 2021, Im satisfied that this confirms that
Amex didnt comply with those instructions as they should have done. And I also
must note that even if Mr H had called the DRA after I issued those prior instructions
 which wasnt the case  this wouldnt have absolved Amex of their responsibility to
comply with those prior instructions.
Accordingly, given that Mr H has incurred what Im satisfied is a significant amount of
ongoing distress and inconvenience here directly resulting from Amexs failure to
comply with the instructions given to them previously, Ill be provisionally upholding
this complaint and instructing Amex to pay Mr H a further £750 as compensation for
the impact of their errors on him. Amex must pay this amount to Mr H directly and
may not use this payment to reduce the balance of the credit account, unless Mr H
gives his permission for them to do so.
Additionally, in line with my previous instructions, Amex must contact Mr H
themselves and conduct an income and expenditure assessment with him in order to
arrange a suitable, interest-free repayment plan on the balance that Mr H remains
liable to pay.
Amex must also remove any and all adverse reporting relating to this account from
Mr Hs credit file from December 2014 onwards. And, for the avoidance of any doubt,
this includes that Amex must not apply any further adverse credit file reporting.
Finally, Mr H has asked this service to consider instructing Amex to cover the costs
hes incurred subscribing to a credit file review service. I can appreciate why Mr Hwould like Amex to cover these costs, given the ongoing errors that Amex have
made, but I dont feel that I can fairly issue this instruction in this instance. This is
because there are alternative free services available which would have allowed Mr H
to review his credit file without cost, and as such I dont feel its fair to ask Amex to
reimburse costs that I feel Mr H could reasonably have mitigated against.
Both Mr H and Amex responded to my provisional decision. Upon consideration of those 
responses, I felt it necessary to issue an amended provisional decision on 21 March 2023, 
which included the following:
Mr H responded to my provisional decision and outlined his continuing grievances 
with Amex and a reiteration that he would like Amex to be instructed to cover his 
costs in regard to subscribing to a credit file review service. I appreciate Mr Hs 
position here and Ive taken everything that hes said into consideration. But having 
done so, my position remains as I explained it in my initial provisional decision letter 
above.
Amex also responded to my provisional decision and said that they are unable to 
recall the outstanding balance from the third-party to which it was transferred at this 
stage. Amex also said that they will be unable to prevent future negative reporting if 
Mr H continues to make monthly payments of less than 1.4% of the account balance.
I know of no reason why either of these statements would be the case and Amex 
havent provided any reason. As such, I expect Amex to be prepared take whatever 
steps are necessary to comply with my provisional instructions for them recall the 
balance from the third party and to follow my instructions therein, including in regard 
to amending Mr Hs credit file and not making any further adverse reporting.
To be clear, my final decision on the original complaint was that Amex had provided 
credit to Mr H irresponsibly. And my instructions on that earlier complaint and this 
sadly necessary ongoing complaint are given in consideration of that fact. And this 
service does have the remit to formally instruct Amex to take the actions as 
mandated by my instructions to them.
However, if Amex are unwilling to comply with my instructions, then my further 
provisional instruction is that they must write off the full remaining balance that Mr H 
has outstanding, reimbursing any payments directly to Mr H that he may have made 
since the date of my earlier final decision, and remove any and all credit file reporting 
relating to this account from Mr Hs credit file from account inception  as if the 
account had never been opened.
Additionally in this scenario, because Mr H will no longer have the benefit of fair and
reasonable credit file reporting relating to this account, Amex must make an 
increased payment of a total of £950 compensation  instead of the £750 instructed 
should Amex follow my initial instructions  for the significant, unnecessary, and 
unwarranted upset and inconvenience that Mr H continues to incur here.
I take this further step reluctantly, but on the basis that while I have tried to achieve 
the remit of this service  which is to return Mr H, as much as possible, to the 
financial position he would have been in had Amex not made the error in providing 
credit to him irresponsibly that they did  that Amex are failing to comply with the fair 
and reasonable earlier instructions given by me, and which I have largely repeated in 
my initial provisional decision above.Its as a consequence of Amexs failure to comply with those instructions that I insert 
this new conditional clause  which I feel presents a fairer and more reasonable 
outcome to Amexs seemingly implied suggestion that they be permitted to continue 
to allow their preferred way of unfairly managing this ongoing situation to continue.
Because I have added this conditional clause to my provisional instructions  which 
to reiterate, will become legally binding on Amex should Mr H accept any final 
decision I issue which may contain these instructions  Im obliged to issue this 
decision here on a provisional basis again, to allow both Mr H and Amex the 
opportunity to respond.
Amex responded to my amended provisional decision and confirmed that they wouldnt be 
recalling Mr Hs account and that as such they accepted the conditional instructions 
described above  which included that they must write off Mr Hs loan balance and 
reimburse to Mr H any payments hed made towards the account since the prior complaint 
final decision that was issued in September 2021.
Mr H also confirmed that he was happy to accept the outcome described above  which also 
includes that Amex must remove all credit file reporting relating to this account, as though 
the account had never been opened, and pay compensation of £950 to Mr H for the trouble 
and upset that hes incurred here. 
Given the acceptance of both parties, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding 
this complaint in Mr Hs favour on the basis explained above. And I therefore confirm that I 
do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Amex must write off the full remaining balance that Mr H has outstanding on this account.
Amex must also reimburse to Mr H any payments that he may have made towards this loan 
since the date of my earlier final decision in September 2021
Amex must also remove all credit file reporting relating to this account from Mr Hs credit file 
from the inception of the account  as if the account had never been opened.
Finally, Amex must pay £950 to Mr H as compensation for the significant upset and 
inconvenience that hes incurred here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman