DRN-2753587
The complaint
X complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited reached an unfair settlement on his residential
property owners insurance claim and caused delays.  
What happened
X brought a previous complaint to this service regarding a declined claim with Fairmead. A
final decision was issued in which the ombudsman decided Fairmead didnt reach a fair
outcome on the claim. He said it needed to reconsider Xs claim in line with the rest of the
policy terms and conditions. He also awarded £250 for the impact of delays caused by
Fairmead.
Fairmead did reconsider the claim and agreed a cash settlement with X. It said itd also
agreed to consider energy costs for the period of time the repair works were being carried
out and had requested evidence of this that wasnt received. It noted that two payments had
been made to X for gas and electricity costs irrespective of this, so said it wouldnt consider
this any further.
But it didnt agree to pay for any loss of rent and council tax X incurred, as at the time the
loss occurred no tenancy agreement was in place. It also declined to include a payment for
VAT in its cash settlement as the contractor X used wasnt VAT registered.
X disagreed and brought another complaint to this service. He said it took Fairmead too long
to issue his cash settlement after itd been agreed. He maintained Fairmead should cover
the loss of rent and council tax as its errors had delayed him placing a new tenant. And he
said he was told by Fairmead it would include VAT costs so it should honour this.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Fairmead had handled the claim fairly
in relation to the loss of rent and VAT. And he said the delays element of the complaint had
already been factored into the compensation awarded on Xs previous complaint and he
didnt award any more. But he said Fairmead should still consider any costs X incurred, that
havent already been reimbursed, for energy usage during the time repairs were taking
place. X disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me
to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision on this case in April 2020. Ive included 
part of this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loss of rent
X says that when the insured property was placed on the rental market as initially intended, it
rented out within 18 days. He thinks this shows there was demand for his property that was
delayed by Fairmeads actions. So he wants it to cover the loss of rent he says hes incurred
as a result.
The policy does offer cover for loss of rent. But is subject to certain terms and conditions
which say - If the Home is damaged by any cause covered under Section 1 - Buildings and,
as a result, cannot be lived in, We will pay for (a) loss of rent due to You which You are
unable to Recover
I understand that at the time the loss occurred, there was no tenancy agreement agreed, or
otherwise in place for the insured property. This means X was responsible for all the costs
associated with the property at that point. The policy term doesnt make provision for rent
that might or could be paid, but simply rent that was due to the policyholder. Based on what
Ive seen, Im satisfied no rent was due to X at that time of the loss. So I think Fairmead has
fairly declined his claim for loss of rent in line with the terms of the policy.
Reimbursement of VAT
X says Fairmead has failed to cover VAT costs in its cash settlement. But from what Ive
seen, the contractor X used to carry out the repairs to his property isnt VAT registered and
so the invoice for works, which it seems Fairmead has covered in its cash settlement,
doesnt include VAT. I think its worth noting Fairmead has agreed to settle any VAT costs on
receipt of the appropriate evidence to support this  and its the absence of this evidence
(because the contractor isnt VAT registered) that has meant it wont cover this.
I agree with Fairmead that theres no settlement for VAT required in this case, as from what
Ive seen, the cost hasnt been incurred. So I dont intend to direct it to make a payment for
this.
Costs and delays
X says he had a prolonged period where he had to cover costs such as energy bills and
council tax that otherwise wouldve been paid by his prospective tenants had his claim been
handled correctly. He wants Fairmead to cover the losses he incurred from March 2018 until
the claim was resolved in September 2019. I cant consider any delays that took place prior
to February 2019 as these have already been addressed in a previous final decision.
Council tax
X has been clear he believes the property wouldve been rented out, and council tax covered
by the tenants within a month had Fairmead handled his claim correctly. This isnt something
thats covered by the policy. And while I understand delays may have impacted his ability to
rent the property, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to extend these costs to
Fairmead in this case. And ultimately this cost is Xs responsibility until tenants officially take
it over. So I dont intend to direct Fairmead to reimburse him for the council tax costs he
incurred in this case.Energy bills
It seems Fairmead agreed to consider covering energy bill costs for the period Xs
contractors were carrying out the repairs, but says it never received the required evidence
showing the cost of these bills. However, Fairmead says that two payments for energy bills
were made to X irrespective of this.
If these payments cover the energy bills for the period Fairmead agreed to consider, then
this seems fair and I wouldnt expect it to do anything further. If they dont, Id expect
Fairmead to still consider the energy costs for the period it agreed to on receipt of suitable
evidence from X of costs incurred.
Overall delays
Looking at how this case was handled from February 2019 onwards, I do think further
trouble and upset has been caused to X. I say this because I can see there was initially
some delays on Fairmeads part while it had to chase up information internally to help it
progress the settlement of the claim. And I can see X was having to chase it for updates and
responses at times also.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Fairmeads handling of the claim was as prompt
as it couldve been. And this likely resulted in further delays to X being able to have the
repair works carried out and took up more of his time having to chase up the claim. This
understandably wouldve caused him inconvenience and upset. So I intend to direct
Fairmead to pay X £150 compensation in recognition of this.
I asked both parties to send any further comments theyd like me to consider before issuing 
my final decision. Fairmead said it had nothing further to add. X disagreed with my findings, 
Ive summarised his response below:
Fairmead submitted incorrect policy documents on a previous case.
Questions whether decision would be different if it took longer to settle the claim.
There was an unnecessary delay of six months in making the required payment after 
a previous final decision was issued.
Council tax wouldve been covered by tenants had Fairmead handled the claim 
properly from the beginning.
Claim for VAT is for materials only so should be covered. Fairmead failed to inform X 
that hed need to use a VAT registered builder to claim VAT reimbursement. 
£150 compensation isnt enough and questions why ombudsman dont penalize 
Fairmead for its actions.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant comment on Fairmeads actions regarding policy documents under a previous case  
nor will I make a finding on hypothetical scenarios such as querying how the decision might 
differ if Fairmead had taken more time to resolve the claim. Im satisfied my decision fairly 
considers what actually happened in this case. Ive already addressed the matter regarding council tax in my provisional decision. And for 
the reasons already explained, Im satisfied the £150 compensation Im directing Fairmead 
to pay takes into consideration the delays in settling the claim for the period I can consider in 
this case.
X says Fairmead failed to tell him he needed to use a VAT registered builder to claim back 
VAT costs prior to the work starting. But regardless of this, Im satisfied in this case, that in 
order for Fairmead to fairly consider paying any costs related to VAT, X needs to 
demonstrate that it was incurred  whether he was told this or not.
As set out in my provisional decision, it seems Fairmead agreed to settle any VAT costs on 
receipt of the appropriate evidence to support this  and its the absence of this evidence
(because the contractor isnt VAT registered) that has meant it wont cover this. As already 
explained, I dont think this is unreasonable, so based on what Ive seen in this case I wont 
be directing Fairmead to make a payment for this.
Finally, this service doesn't punish or fine financial businesses. And we dont monitor (or 
"regulate") businesses to make sure they follow the rules. This is the job of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
In relation to this service role, Ive fully considered the circumstances of this case and the 
further comments X has made in response to my provisional decision. But my decision 
remains unchanged for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited should 
pay X £150 for the trouble and upset caused in this case. And if it hasnt done so already, it 
should also consider the energy costs for the period it agreed to on receipt of suitable
evidence from X of costs incurred.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman