DRN-3219011
The complaint
BFMA is unhappy with the outcome of a claim made under its landlord policy with UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI). 
BFMA is represented by Mr M who is one of the leaseholders of a flat within the property and 
has shared usage of the affected basement. Mr M has dealt with the claim and complaint on 
BFMAs behalf.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr M contacted to UKI to make a claim, on behalf of BFMA. When reporting 
this, Mr M noted that drains at the insured property had backed up, causing water to gather 
and pool in the basement. 
In order to validate the claim, and because of the need to understand the cause of the water 
pooling in the basement, UKI appointed firms that specialise in this area to review the 
drainage system and detect any leaks. 
The first expert, who Ill call A, completed a diagnostic review of the situation, including a 
CCTV survey of the underground services to the property. It confirmed that it had found 
some tree roots that had been affecting serviceability of the pipework. UKI said it was happy 
to accept this damage as covered under the policy. And it authorised for repairs to go ahead 
and sort this problem. The specialist noted that these tree roots were unlikely to be the 
cause of water entering and pooling in the basement though, and so additional investigations 
needed to be undertaken into that.
Further investigations into the cause of water entering the basement went ahead. The expert 
noted it had checked nine lines, through dye testing. And it had completed audio testing too, 
which established that no water was escaping from the below ground drainage system. The 
expert also said water had dissipated from the basement once the home emergency 
provider called out had unblocked the drainage system. And no water was entering the 
basement when there was no blockage present.
Another specialist firm, who Ill call P, also carried out a leak detection survey. This survey 
included a visual inspection of the area, and dye testing of the pipes and gullies above 
ground. This expert also noted there were no leaks to the actual pipework. But said water 
was flowing into the basement and down the walls, from the area surrounding an above 
ground waste gully. It also noted there was potentially a blockage inside the gully, which 
meant that when it rained the gully overflowed and water ran into the basement. The expert 
noted there were other areas of concerns at the property. But said dye testing to those areas 
didnt show water entering the basement from there.
Specialist A came back and unblocked the gully by plunging the system. It again noted that 
once unblocked, no water entered the basement. But it said the above ground gully was 
poorly designed, meaning it would overflow. And it said a below ground trap was also poorly 
constructed and would block without regular maintenance. 
Based on the above, UKI concluded there were three unrelated matters contributing to 
problems:
Tree root ingress related damage to the underground services;
A poorly designed underground trap which had failed gradually;
An above ground pipe was poorly installed and failing to correctly expel water into a 
gully located above an area where water was seen going inside the property.
As above, UKI agreed to cover the costs of rectifying the tree root damage. 
But it declined to cover any work to the underground trap, or the issue of the above ground 
gully pipework. 
With regards to the underground trap, it said there was a specific exclusion within the policy 
for "inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, frost, change in water 
table level, its own faulty or defective design or materials". And given the problem here was 
poor design and gradual deterioration, it wasnt something the policy could respond to. 
With regards the gully pipe it said was incorrectly installed, UKI said a separate claim for an 
Escape of Water could be considered, subject to a £500 policy excess, in relation to this 
matter. However, a claim for this would only cover the cost of any resultant water damage to 
the basement. The policy wouldnt cover the cost of replacing the poorly installed pipe itself, 
unless damage was caused to the pipe itself as a result of an insured event. And, because 
the resultant water damage was under £500, there would be no use in claiming for this 
anyway. 
UKI proposed that once BFMA corrected the problems with the underground trap and gully 
pipe, it would come and clean and sanitise the basement This would clean any damage that 
would have been dealt with under an escape of water claim, if one was made. 
Mr M saw things differently. As far as he was concerned, BFMA made a claim for water 
getting inside the property and pooling in the basement. And he didnt think UKI had 
responded to this correctly. Mr M felt the issues with the basement had to be resolved by 
UKI. And UKI could only do so by repairing all of the defects contributing to this problem. Mr 
M pointed to the escape of water section of the policy, as well as a policy extension for Trace 
and Access cover which he feels should enable UKI to find the source of the leak and make 
good the defects causing an escape of water.
As BFMA remained unhappy, Mr M raised a complaint with UKI about how it had handled 
things. But UKIs position remained the same. It said it had correctly declined to repair the 
pipe that was supposed to discharge into the gully, as well as the underground trap. UKI felt 
it had acted in line with the policy by covering the damage to underground pipework through 
tree ingress. And that it had gone above and beyond what it needed to, by testing for 
asbestos in areas unrelated to the claim made. 
As BFMA remained unhappy, Mr M referred the matter to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator reviewed the matter and didnt uphold BFMAs complaint. He concluded that 
UKI acted reasonably by covering the tree root damage to the underground services under 
the Accidental Damage section of the policy. And fairly excluded cover for the defective underground trap. Lastly, he concluded that UKI couldnt be held responsible for rectifying 
the incorrectly installed over ground pipe under the Escape of Water section unless the pipe 
itself was damaged through an insured event. And he said the cost of rectifying the poorly 
installed pipe didnt fall under the Trace and Access extension either.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator and requested that a final decision on the matter be 
issued by an ombudsman. 
In August 2021, Mr M informed our investigator that the gully at the top of the stairs had 
been repaired as suggested by UKI, but it had not solved the problem. The basement had 
still flooded when the drain became blocked again recently. Mr M feels this demonstrates 
that UKI hasnt properly diagnosed the main cause of the problem.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a claim, UKI has a duty to deal with a claim promptly and fairly  and it 
should not unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive considered whether UKI acted in line with 
this expectation. And therefore, whether it acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances 
of this case.
The starting point to decide whether UKI acted unfairly or not, is the terms of BFMAs policy. 
This is the contractual agreement between the parties. So, Ive looked at BMFAs policy 
documents, to see what cover is provided.
From doing so, I can see that BFMA has an insured peril policy. This means that, for a 
claim to be covered, the damage to the property needs to have been caused by one of the 
insured perils (or contingencies) listed in the policy. If the damage to the property isnt 
caused by one of those insured perils  then it isnt covered, and a claim wont be 
successful.
So, Ive thought about the loss BFMA has claimed for, and whether it has been shown that 
the claim falls within any of the insured perils listed in the policy. Having thought carefully 
about this, Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly in saying that one element of the above 
three is covered under the policy, but the others arent. 
Ive seen the drainage and leak detection investigation reports, completed by the specialists 
appointed in this case. Based on these various below ground and above ground 
investigations, Im satisfied UKI reasonably identified three separate issues. And at least two 
which were likely contributing to water getting inside and pooling in the basement. Ive 
considered all of these issues below.Tree root damage
The initial drainage investigations identified that there was tree root damage to one of the 
drainage lines. And this was compromising how well the drain was functioning. Neither party 
has disputed there was a problem with tree roots. Or the cover under the policy for this.  
And looking at the policy myself, I can see it covers damage to underground services. As 
tree roots did cause damage to the pipe Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably in covering this 
element of this loss.  I understand the work to repair this problem has been completed. 
Mr M, on behalf of BFMA has said that it didnt make a claim for this issue, and the claim 
raised was instead for the water that had entered the basement. And I agree with Mr M and 
BFMA that it had raised the matter due to the discovery of water in this area. But, UKI did 
what I would have expected it to, by undertaking investigations on the drainage system, in 
order to establish what had happened. And when doing so, it did identify an issue insured 
under the policy  although causing a different problem to one in the basement. 
Having discovered something of this nature, I would expect UKI to deal with it. And it did, by 
authorising and undertaking the repairs. I cant see any of the leaseholder from BFMA 
objected to this repair being completed. And so, Im satisfied UKI didnt do anything wrong 
here by dealing with this issue, and noting the relevant excess was payable for it. So, I dont 
require UKI to do anything differently here.
Water within the basement
As above, Mr M contacted UKI and made a claim because water had been discovered in the 
basement of the property. And investigations were undertaken to see what was causing this 
problem.
The specialist reports on these investigations note what was found. And Im persuaded that 
these reports do identify the cause of the problems experienced. I say this because they are 
detailed  with conclusions being reached after several tests completed at the property. 
Including CCTV surveys, audio testing and dye testing. The reports also provide 
photographs, which are consistent with the information discussed in the reports. 
From reviewing these reports, Im aware the CCTV and audio surveys showed that was no 
damage to the actual pipework, other than by the tree roots. And so, water didnt escape that 
way. Instead, it was identified through when the pipework was blocked, including the above 
ground gully, water would enter the basement. When unblocked, it would not. 
So, its clear the problem here was when a blockage arose. UKI cleared the blockages 
identified when the claim was made. And so, it remedied the problem giving rise to the water 
pooling. Which, Im satisfied is fair for it to do. 
In terms of the drainage system  the experts also noted;
There are no defects to the buried trapped gully from our CCTV, however it is apparent that 
this is a poor construction arrangement and is likely to block in future if not adequately 
drained and kept free flowing. In addition the arrangement of the above ground pipework is 
poor, in that a number of pipes run into this gully leading to the overflowing of water and 
escape are the area of the gully.From the above, its clear that the construction of the system means blockages will occur in 
future without enough maintenance. Im aware that Mr M, on behalf of BFMA feels that UKI 
should cover the problem with the gully, and the underground trap under the escape of water 
section of the policy. BFMA says there was an escape of water. And the escape of water 
peril means trace and access cover can be used too. So, Ive thought carefully about this.
I agree there has been an escape of water here. But the policy only provides cover for 
damage caused by the escape of water. Not for repair of the problem causing the escape. 
This is common in policies of this nature. So, the escape of water section would only allow 
for settlement of the water damage caused to the basement. 
From what I can see within the information provided, the only damage to the basement is the 
need for deodorisation and sanitisation. And UKI have agreed to deal with that, without the 
need for a second claim. Given a second claim would mean a further excess, and BFMA will 
not need to pay this as UKI have agreed to deal with it anyway, I do think UKI has acted 
fairly here.
BFMA has said the trace and access section of the policy would allow for the repair of the 
above ground gully, as well as the repair of the underground trap as well. At this point, its 
important to note that generally trace and access cover is provided under a policy to assist 
the policyholder with finding the source of a leak. So, for example, if it is suspected a leak 
was under a floor, the policy would allow for this floor to be lifted to identify the problem. And 
then this section would cover the cost of putting this flooring back to its pre-loss state. It is 
simply to locate the problem, as opposed to fixing the leak when it is identified. 
Having read, BFMAs policy, and the trace and access section of this, Im aware this is the 
case here too. This section explains it allows for costs to locate the source of the damage, 
and the costs of making good. It does acknowledge this cover is there to allow for repairs to 
be effected. But, as is usual with policies of this nature, it doesnt detail that the insurer will 
affect the repair, just enable the access. 
So, although I understand why Mr M felt these costs would be down to UKI, Im satisfied UKI 
has considered this element of the matter fairly and reasonably. And it would be for BFMA to 
complete work to the gully and underground trap separately. UKI can then come and sanitise 
and deodorise once this non-insured work has been completed.
Reviewing what has happened during the life of this claim, I think UKI considered the claim 
within a timely manner, and carried out the investigations it needed to, in relation to the 
problems at the property. UKI fairly paid for the damage caused by tree roots. And has 
agreed to sanitisation and deodorisation, without the need for a second claim and excess to 
be logged.   
As above, BFMA has informed our investigator that the gully at the top of the stairs has been 
repaired as suggested by UKI. But it has not solved the problem. The basement still flooded 
when the drain became blocked again recently. I can understand why this has caused Mr M, 
on behalf of BFMA, concern. But, its not clear what, if anything, was done to the gully. Or if 
BFMA did anything regarding the trap underground which UKI said if not regularly 
maintained will get blocked and overflow. If nothing, then as suggested by UKI, this will likely 
cause problems still. And so, this doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. 
If BFMA has now completed both suggested repairs, and the problem in the basement is 
continuing, it should raise this new information with UKI, for it consider in the first instance.
UKI responded to my provisional decision and noted that it didnt have anything further to 
add. Mr M, on behalf of BFMA, didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Neither party has provided me with any 
additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional decision noted above. So, my final 
decision remains the same as that detailed in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I consider UK 
Insurance Limiteds offer to attend to sanitise and deodorise the basement after BFMA 
complete the necessary work to the above ground gully, and below ground trap to be fair. 
And I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman