DRN-4169949
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited havent paid a claim he made on his private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr M is unhappy that Vitality has declined to cover podiatry treatment on his private medical 
insurance policy. He says he was told by Vitality it would be covered.
Vitality looked into what had happened and said they couldnt locate a call where Mr M was 
told it would be covered. However, they did locate a call from November 2022 where he was 
told podiatry wasnt covered as he didnt have that option added to his plan. Mr M made a 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He thought Mr M had been made aware 
there would be no cover before he had the appointment. Mr M asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He said it should be covered by the hip-knee network treatment 
because the consultant that was treating his knee recommended the podiatrist. So, I need to 
make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because: 
He doesnt have cover under the policy for podiatry treatments. He hasnt paid for 
that additional level of cover. 
Theres a call recording, which took place before the podiatry appointment, in which 
Vitality told Mr M podiatry treatment wasnt covered.
Even though the knee consultant recommended the podiatrist it doesnt mean that 
the claim should be covered. Its a separate treatment and is still subject to the 
relevant policy terms. And, as Ive outlined above, Mr M was told before the 
treatment that it wasnt covered. 
Mr M had treatment for podiatry. I dont think its fair and reasonable for Vitality to 
cover this under hip and knee treatment. Its a different type of treatment that isnt 
covered under Mr Ms plan. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms testimony that he was told by Vitality that he would be 
covered in a call which now cant be located. But it hasnt changed my thoughts 
about the overall outcome of the complaint. Mr M said this call took place just before 
the call in November. That means it most likely took place before the call Ive 
listened to. And, as Ive outlined above, in the call which took place in November 
Mr M was told podiatry wasnt covered. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman