DRN-3879081
The complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here.
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, HSBC is expected 
to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute 
that Miss R was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that she authorised the payments. 
So the starting position is that shes liable for them.
There are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have realised Miss R was at risk from 
fraudsuch as if the payments were uncharacteristically large or otherwise 
suspicious, given how she generally used her account. If HSBC failed to intervene 
appropriately when it should have done, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it 
might be fair to hold it liable.
In the year leading up to the scam, Miss R made payments to the same 
cryptocurrency platformso this wasnt a new payee. Shed also made several 
similarly sized payments to those involved in the scam. And while there were a 
number of payments, some of which took place on the same day, I dont think the 
frequency looked so unusual that HSBC shouldve stepped inparticularly as the 
payee had been used for some time. In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable 
that HSBC didnt detect a fraud riskso simply processed the payments in line with 
Miss Rs instructions.
Ive also considered Miss Rs point that HSBC did intervene on the first payment, 
over concerns with the sort code. And so, whether it missed an opportunity to ask 
more questions. But HSBC doesnt have a record of this conversation. And Im 
mindful that as the payee had been used before, its possible that any conversation 
couldve happened before the scam. Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded 
there was a chance to intervene that HSBC missed here. 
As well as considering whether HSBC ought to have prevented Miss Rs loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. It took a couple of days 
for HSBC to contact the merchant after Miss R reported the scam, who replied to say 
that the funds had already been sent out to external wallets. I think HSBC couldve 
acted sooner. But given Miss R reported the scam around a month after the last 
payment in connection with it, I think its unlikely quicker action by HSBC wouldve 
made a difference. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss R. But Im not persuaded HSBC is at 
fault for failing to stop, or recover, her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman