DRN-3366308
The complaint
Mrs T complained that in 2008 Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) allowed someone 
else to withdraw her money held in a cash ISA (Individual Savings Account). She is also 
unhappy with the service Halifax provided to her when she tried to find out information about 
the account. 
What happened
Mrs Ts father opened a Halifax ISA Saver account for her on 25 April 2006 with a deposit of 
£3,000. Mrs T signed the application to agree to the terms of the account on the same day.
A passbook was issued which Mrs T kept.
Mrs T subsequently forgot about the account until she came across the passbook in 2021. 
The only transaction recorded in the passbook was the initial £3,000 deposit paid into the 
account on 25 April 2006. 
Mrs T made enquiries with Halifax in branch but wasnt able to get answers to her questions 
about what happened to the money in the account. 
Halifax accepted that Mrs T was let down by the service it had provided in branch when she 
wanted to find out information about the account and it paid her £75 by way of an apology to 
reflect its poor service. It also confirmed that the account had been closed in June 2008 with 
a balance of £3,255.25. It said, at the time, passbook accounts could be closed without any 
need for the passbook to be produced. 
Halifax also confirmed that the money in the account wasnt paid into Mrs Ts Halifax current 
account. 
Halifax explained that it didnt have records going back this far so it couldnt provide any 
more information. It suggested that Mrs T could contact any other banks where she had 
accounts at the time to see if this could help her trace where the funds went. 
Mrs T wasn't happy with this response so she brought her complaint to us. She has said that 
she didnt close the account and the money didnt come to her.
There are strict rules about bringing complaints in time. We asked Halifax if it agreed to us 
looking into the complaint as it might have been out of time. It wasnt clear whether Halifax 
did consent and so the investigator first of all looked at jurisdiction and explained why she 
thought this was a case we could look into.
Our investigator next looked into what happened. She thought Halifax had taken all 
reasonable steps to try and locate the account and it had dealt fairly with Mrs Ts complaint 
overall. So she didnt feel she could ask Halifax to do anything else. 
Mrs T disagreed with our investigator. She said she had taken advice and been told that two 
forms of identification, along with her passbook, would have been required to withdraw the 
money in the account. She said the passbook and certificate had never left the safe where 
she kept them and she thinks the money might be in a dormant account. Shes unhappy that 
her money has gone missing and doesnt feel enough has been done to locate it.   
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs T  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for her. Theres a substantial amount of money involved and 
I appreciate that she feels strongly that she didnt close the account and she hasnt had the 
benefit of this money.
But what she says about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her 
complaint. Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman 
Service approach. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most 
likely. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited 
information. And I must be impartial and take into account information from both parties 
when making my decision.
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Halifax told us it didnt consent to us looking at Mrs Ts complaint if we found she had left it 
too late to complain and it wasnt in jurisdiction. So first of all, Ive thought about whether this 
is a complaint I can lawfully consider  and I am satisfied that it is. 
Although we dont have power to investigate complaints about events that happened more 
than six years ago, we can still look into what happened if the complaint is brought to us 
within three years of the date the complainant knew, or should reasonably have realised, 
that there were grounds to complain.
Mrs T wasnt aware until she went into the branch and discovered that there wasnt any 
record of the account, or her money, that something might have gone wrong and that she 
could complain. And she did that straightaway. So I find that her complaint was made in 
time.
I havent identified any other reason why the case isnt within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
So I am satisfied that this is a case I can consider.
  
Halifax has explained that it can only provide a limited amount of information. The single 
passbook entry was made in 2006 and its now fourteen years or so since Halifax says its 
records show the account was closed.
Businesses dont have to retain information indefinitely and I accept the passage of time 
means theres a limit to how much information I can reasonably expect Halifax to be able to 
provide. 
Halifax has shown me that it ran a check for historic information kept on its system. This 
shows no trace of Mrs Ts ISA account currently in its records. And the information it has been able to discover records that the account was closed on the date it told Mrs T and the 
money released. It has also said that this particular account could have been closed without 
the passbook. Despite what Mrs T has heard elsewhere, I think its more likely that Halifax 
will know what systems it had in place at the time. So Ive no good reason to doubt what 
Halifax has said about this. 
Mrs T has said she never received any statements for the account over the years. I think this 
could reasonably be explained if the account was open for just over two years.  
All this leads me to conclude that its likely that the account was closed on the date Halifax 
has said and the money was paid out. I've seen nothing that suggests Halifax still holds the 
money in a dormant account. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed by the parties involved, I must base my decision 
on the balance of probability - that is, what I consider most likely to have happened taking 
into account all the available evidence and information. 
Ive no reason to think that Mrs T isnt certain about what she has told us. But Im satisfied 
the available information shows Halifax most likely closed Mrs Ts account on 18 June 2008 
as its records show and it paid the funds to the person who closed the account. Halifax cant 
tell me who that person was  but thats not enough of a reason for me to uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. After so long, I wouldnt reasonably expect Halifax to be able to tell me that 
information. 
I think Halifax was right to acknowledge that it wasnt as helpful as it could have been when 
Mrs T first approached the bank for information about the account. But I am satisfied that the 
£75 compensation it has already paid her for this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T. But as Im satisfied Halifax dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman