DRN-2682481
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs M are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim they made 
under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr L has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill only refer to him.
  
What happened
In 2018, Mr L got in touch with Aviva because hed noticed cracking to an extension in the 
rear left of his property. I understand Aviva declined the claim based on looking at some 
photos and told Mr L he could take expert advice if he disagreed.
Mr L took advice from S, a chartered surveyor, who arranged for ground and drainage 
investigations to be carried out. In summary, S said there had been ground movement and 
damage to the underground drainage system.
Mr L returned to Aviva, who appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for 
investigations to establish the cause of the problem. 
The loss adjuster accepted there was subsidence damage caused by nearby vegetation  
but the claim was declined because the foundation was defective. In summary they said:
The foundation was 600mm deep.
According to guidance provided by N, a certain builder of new homes, it should have 
been 1,850mm deep.
Had the foundation been built this deep, the damage wouldnt have happened.
The foundation wasnt of raft construction. And even if it was a raft, it should have 
been built on granular fill, but the investigations found no evidence of this.
Mr L appointed a solicitor, who challenged the loss adjusters decision. In summary:
It was wrong to rely on the guidance provided by N.
A raft foundation was designed by a structural engineer and signed off by building 
control.
A suitable fill material was found underneath the raft.
In response the loss adjuster maintained the foundation was defective and said:
Building Regulations required the foundation to be built in a way that ensures stability 
of the structure.
The guidance of N provides advice about how to achieve this in a clay soil.
It seemed to accept the foundation was a raft construction.
But it still disagreed it had been built on a suitable material.
No consideration was given to differential movement between the main house and 
the extension.
Mr L complained and Aviva agreed with the decision reached by the loss adjuster. Mr L 
referred his complaint to this service.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Aviva should reconsider 
the claim and reimburse Mr Ls cost of taking advice from S, plus interest. This was because:
Ns guidelines didnt apply.
Building Regulations did apply  but Aviva hadnt shown how the extension failed to 
meet the Regulations.
Aviva declined the claim unfairly and left Mr L to seek advice from S  so it should 
now reimburse the cost of that advice, plus interest.
Mr L agreed and provided invoices from S totalling around £6,000 for the cost of 
investigations and advice.
Aviva disagreed and provided more information about the Regulations. It said the foundation 
ought to have been a minimum of 750mm to comply.
The investigator accepted the foundation was shallower than this. But she noted roots had 
been found to 1.7m and thought this meant movement was likely even if the foundation had 
met Regulations. She also noted the extension had stood for around ten years without a 
problem and considered this meant it had stood the test of time. And as the extension had 
been signed off by building control, she didnt think there was more Mr L could have done.
Aviva maintained it had declined the claim fairly. An agreement couldnt be reached, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and Aviva accepts the left-hand side 
extension has suffered subsidence damage. The policy excludes subsidence damage 
caused by faulty or unsuitable design.
Aviva has relied on this exclusion to decline the claim, primarily because it says the 
foundation wasnt deep enough. The onus is on Aviva to show its fair to do this.
The loss adjuster considered guidance provided by a certain builder of new homes, N. It 
says this guidance required a foundation depth of at least 1,850mm, taking into account the 
nearby trees and soil type underneath the rear extension. The foundation was 600mm deep. 
Roots were found to a depth of 1,700mm. The loss adjuster says that subsidence wouldnt 
have occurred if the foundation had been built to a depth of 1,850mm.
But I havent seen any evidence to show that the extension was subject to these standards. 
The extension wasnt built as part of a new home. And there was no obligation on the builder 
to follow Ns standards. Whilst some builders and engineers may choose to use Ns 
standards, I dont think they were required to. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to judge 
the design of the foundation against these standards.The extension was subject to building regulations. Im satisfied these are the relevant 
standards to take into account as the builder was required to follow them.
The loss adjuster considered the Building Regulations that applied at the time. It notes 
Requirement A2 says, in summary, the building should be constructed so that ground 
movement caused by soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. The loss adjuster says that 
because theres been subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage, this point hasnt been met.
Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally as this would produce a fair outcome. It 
would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused by clay shrinkage meant 
the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt covered by the policy. The introduction to 
the regulations says the requirement will be met by following the recommendations and 
guidance contained within the document. I understand that to mean requirement A2 is a 
broad aim and there is more detailed, specific information in the following sections about 
how to achieve that aim.
The loss adjuster has pointed to one of the recommendations, which is for a minimum depth 
of strip foundations. The guidance is to build a strip foundation in clay soil to a minimum of 
750mm and to take into account the influence of nearby vegetation and trees. Mr Ls solicitor 
argued that the foundation was of raft construction, rather than a strip foundation, so this 
recommendation wasnt relevant. And S, a chartered surveyor, has been clear that the 
foundation is of raft construction. The loss adjuster initially disagreed it was a raft but later 
seemed to accept it was. Overall, Im not satisfied the foundation was of strip construction. 
That means the minimum of 750mm didnt apply.
There was still a need to comply with the broad aim of A2 in Building Regulations and 
construct a foundation likely to be able to provide stability. The loss adjuster hasnt pointed 
to any other particular recommendations within the Regulations that it thinks werent 
followed. But the experts do seem to agree that its common practice to build a raft 
foundation on a suitable fill material. The investigations S carried out show the foundation 
built on limestone gravel  a fill material. The loss adjusters own investigation in a similar 
area also found gravel below the foundation. So Im persuaded common practice was likely 
to have been followed.
Mr L received a Final Certificate on behalf of Building Control which said the work had been 
completed in line with Building Regulations. Im satisfied the certificate is evidence the 
extension had been built in a way which met the requirements of building regulations and the 
local authority building control office. And I think Mr L was entitled to see the certificate as 
confirmation that the proper steps had been taken when the extension was built  and it was 
likely to be of suitable construction.
At the time of the damage, the extension had stood for almost ten years. I havent seen any 
suggestion it had suffered from previous foundation movement. Aviva accepts this timeframe 
 and the Final Certificate  are both in Mr Ls favour.
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied Aviva has shown it was fair to decline the 
claim for the extension. To put things right, it should now accept the claim.
After the claim was declined, Mr L took steps to put the subsidence problem right. I 
understand the trees identified by the loss adjuster as contributing to the problem were 
removed, the drains were repaired, and building repairs carried out. Aviva should consider 
the costs Mr L has incurred putting the problem right.
Part of Mr Ls complaint was about the way the claim was handled initially. In my experience 
its common practice for claims of a structural nature, such as Mr Ls, to be passed to a loss adjuster with the relevant knowledge and experience to deal with this kind of problem 
effectively. In most claims the damage will be inspected in order to decide whether the claim 
is accepted, declined, or whether further investigation is necessary. Its unusual for it to be 
considered in the way Aviva did initially.
As a result, it put the onus on Mr L to arrange and pay for the kind of investigations the loss 
adjuster would usually do. Im not satisfied it was fair for Aviva to take this approach.
After Mr L provided information from S, Aviva did take the usual approach and appoint a 
suitable loss adjuster. I think that was the reasonable thing to do at that point. However, for 
the reasons above, Im not satisfied the loss adjuster reached a fair outcome for the claim. 
That led to Mr L taking further advice from S to show why the claim should be covered  and 
to ensure the problem was put right.
The impact of the way Aviva handled things is that Mr L has paid for expert advice from S, 
including the cost of ground and drainage investigations. Hes provided invoices which total 
£6,256.40. Had Aviva appointed a loss adjuster initially  and accepted the claim  I dont 
think Mr L would have incurred these costs. And the costs directly relate to showing he had a 
subsidence claim, what caused it, and how it should be put right. As a result, Im satisfied it 
would be reasonable for Aviva to pay these costs.
I also think it would be reasonable for Aviva to add interest to this payment. Mr L has been 
without the money unnecessarily. And it would compensate him for whats gone wrong 
during the claim.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. For the reasons above, I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Accept the subsidence claim for the extension.
Pay £6,256.40 for the expert advice and investigations.
Pay simple interest* at 8% a year on the cost of each invoice, from the date each 
invoice was paid by Mr L until the date Aviva settles it.
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman