DRN-3360295
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and refused to pay a claim on it.
In bringing this complaint Mr M's been helped by professional representatives. But, for 
ease of reading, Ill refer to their comments as being Mr M's.
Reference to Calpe includes the agents which administer the policy on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr M insured his car through Calpe. He was involved in an incident when his car ran into the 
back of the car in front. He claimed for the damage to his car. Calpe looked into it. Having 
done so it said Mr M had provided false information. It refused to pay his claim and cancelled 
his policy.
Mr M didnt think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He didn't think Calpe needed to take any further action. Mr M didnt agree so 
the complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I'm aware that Calpe has cancelled Mr M's policy and declined his claim. In doing so its 
cited a policy term that says it may cancel a policy where a policyholder Makes any claim or 
any part of any claim that is fraudulent, false or exaggerated. I need to be clear that it's not 
for me to make any kind of ruling about whether or not a fraud has been committed, as 
ultimately that's a matter for the courts and the relevant enforcement agencies. Instead my 
role is to look at whether Calpe has looked into matters thoroughly and treated Mr M fairly.
After Mr M submitted his claim Calpe asked him to provide some documents, including proof 
of purchase of his car, which Mr M sent to it. Calpe later appointed a firm to look into the 
claim further, which included interviewing Mr M in the presence of an interpreter.
Calpe had a number of concerns about the evidence Mr M provided. Those included, 
amongst other things, that Mr M had told it that, rather than buying his car for a cash sum or 
on finance, he had swapped it for a property in the country hed grown up in. He gave Calpe 
a document to support that. After interpreters translated that document Calpe noted that, 
while it did indicate that the property had been transferred to the purchaser in exchange for 
the car at issue, the other person involved in the transaction was Mr M's wife. Calpe also 
noted the document was dated some ten years before Mr M actually acquired the car. Mr M 
suggested that the lawyers involved in drawing up the transfer document for the property 
had simply made a mistake with the year. But the year is mentioned several times in it and 
Calpe thought it unlikely that lawyers involved in the sale/transfer of ownership, representing 
Mr M and his wife, would fail to notice this error. I think that was a reasonable conclusion for 
Calpe to come to.
I'm aware Calpe had a number of other concerns about Mr M's version of events. Those 
included, amongst other things, that the damage to the two cars involved in the incident 
doesn't appear consistent with the manner in which Mr M described the accident happening. 
Calpe also noted that Mr M wasnt apparently travelling on any logical route to his 
destination at the time it happened. Mr M's explained that he was in an unfamiliar city at the 
time and he was simply going the way his sat nav sent him. That might be the case but 
Calpe had legitimate concerns over the validity of the proof or purchase/transfer document 
Mr M had submitted. And that was only one of a number of discrepancies in Mr M's 
evidence. 
Calpe has investigated the matter thoroughly and, having done so, it believes Mr M has 
submitted information to it that isnt true or had been amended in order that it pay his claim. 
On that basis Calpe decided to cancel Mr M's policy and decline his claim. And, in the 
specific circumstances of this case, I think it did so reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman