DRN-2381959
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC continued to take payments for an account that
had been repaid.
What happened
My initial conclusions regarding Mr As complaint were set out in my provisional decision 
dated 18 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr As case. I said: 
Mr A had a Barclays current account with an overdraft. In 2015 Mr A experienced some
financial difficulties and wasnt able to maintain payments to his account. At that point, Mr A
owed £1,865.93. Barclays closed the account and Mr A went on to make monthly payments
to clear the debt via standing order.
The debt was repaid around September 2019 but Mr A says Barclays didnt notify him that
he no longer needed to make payments. As a result, Mr As standing order continued to be
paid each month.
In August 2020 Mr A complained to Barclays about the payments he had made. Mr A
explained that he suffers with severe mental health issues that had been made worse by
Barclays actions. Mr A has advised that he had to seek medical help and increase
medication following the issues he raised.
Barclays responded to Mr As complaint on 15 September 2020 and said that as the
payments were being made via a standing order, it was his responsibility to stop them.
Barclays said it had refunded £254.07, representing the overpayment Mr A had made. But
Barclays agreed it could have offered more support when dealing with Mr As concerns and
paid him £75 to apologise. Barclays also offered to refund £213 of fees and charges it had
applied to Mr As account.
Mr A referred his case to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She highlighted
that Barclays had failed to cancel Mr As standing order despite him complaining about the
issue, which had led to a further payment being taken on 22 September 2020. The
investigator said she thought the issue had caused Mr A further distress. The investigator
asked Barclays to increase the compensation offered by £125, taking the award for the
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A to £200.
Barclays agreed to the proposed settlement but Mr A didnt. Mr A said the situation had
impacted him greatly and caused him to seek medical advice and increase his medication.
Mr A said his increased medication made him sleep for over 12 hours a day and that his
mental health had been severely impacted. 
Mr A has sent us letters to show his GP referred him to a social worker and increased his 
medication around the time he complained. The doctors letter and social workers letter 
confirm Mr As mental health had been affected by
the dispute over his finances.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Mr A made more repayments than necessary to clear the outstanding
balance due for his overdraft. Barclays says that Mr A was paying by a standing order so ad
to cancel the instruction. But, its clear Mr A was working with Barclays recoveries teams to
repay his debt and it was aware of financial difficulties, going back to 2015. Given the nature
of the repayments Mr A made, I think Barclays should have notified him when he had repaid
the outstanding balance. That would have let Mr A know he could cancel the standing order.
Mr A told Barclays that the confusion around the payments he had made had affected his
mental health when he first got in touch in August 2020. Mr As standing order was being
collected from another Barclays account and despite his complaint, a further payment was
collected in September 2020. I can see how distressed Mr A was at the continuation of the
payments he had complained about.
Barclays has refunded the overpayments Mr A made so there is no financial loss to him. But,
I can see that Mr As other account shows he continued to experience financial difficulties
around this period and I dont doubt that making payments to a debt that had been cleared
added to and already distressing situation.
Ive thought about how to fairly resolve Mr As complaint. We consider compensation on an
individual basis and Ive carefully considered how the problems Mr A has complained about
have impacted him. Mr A has provided persuasive evidence from his doctor and social
worker that shows his mental health was affected by the problems raised. Im satisfied Mr
As mental health has been unfairly affected by the issues he has told us about. Whilst I note
Barclays agreed to pay a further £125, taking the total award for the distress and
inconvenience caused to £200, Im not persuaded that fairly reflects what happened.
From the information Ive seen, I think Barclays should increase the award for the distress
caused by its actions from £75 to £350. In my opinion, that figure more fairly reflect the
impact of the complaint on Mr A.
Barclays has agreed to refund interest and charges totalling £213 from 2015 and has
already refunded £254.07 of overpayments Mr A made. Im satisfied those refunds put Mr
As account back into the correct position.
Mr A and Barclays have until 18 December 2020 to respond with any further comments or
information they would like me to consider before I make my final decision.
I invited both Mr A and Barclays to respond with any additional comments or information 
they wanted me to consider. 
Barclays responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any new 
information. 
Mr A responded and asked me to take into account the medication he has taken. Mr A also 
his day to day activities have been affected which impacts his family life. Mr A asked me to 
consider the length of time the issues have gone on for.Mr A has also told us that he had to move home around the time of the events hes 
complained about. Mr A has also raised concerns about charges applied to his overdraft 
from 2003 onwards. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr A and Barclays for responding to my provisional decision. 
Mr A has told us about the medication hes taking and asked me to take that into account 
when reaching my final decision. Mr A has previously forwarded us details of his medical 
conditions along with the medication he takes. So, I was aware of the medication Mr A takes 
before I made my provisional decision. I understand that the medication is very strong and 
impacts Mr As day to day activities. 
Ive considered whether I can fairly increase the award further based on Mr As medication 
and what hes told us about Barclays actions. Ive relooked at the doctors letter and social 
workers letter Mr A has previously sent us. Having relooked at the letters, Im satisfied I did 
take the impact of the issues raised on Mr As health into account when I issued my 
provisional decision. I still think the compensation I awarded is fair way to resolve Mr As 
complaint. 
Mr A has asked me to consider the length of time the situation has persisted. But I had 
already factored that into the award I set out in my provisional decision. I could see how the 
situation developed and what happened and took that into account. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I remain of the view that a compensation figure of 
£350, in addition to the interest refund Barclays has agreed to pay, is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Mr A has also raised concerns about overdraft charges Barclays applied from 2003 onwards. 
As this hasnt formed part of the complaint Mr A has asked us to look at, I cant comment on 
those issues as part of this decision. Should Mr A remain concerned at the overdraft charges 
hes paid he has the option of asking Barclays to investigate them. But I cant consider those 
issues as part of this case. 
I can see that Mr A has experienced a very difficult time and Ive noted all the comments he 
has made in bringing this complaint. Having done so, I remain of the view that the settlement 
I gave in my provisional decision is a fair way to resolve Mr As complaint. As a result, Im 
going to proceed and issue my final decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To resolve this complaint, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to settle as follows:
- Pay Mr A a total of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less £75 
Barclays has already paid)- Refund the £213 of interest and charges from 2015
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman