DRN-3720639
The complaint
Miss O complains about treatment by Barclays Bank UK PLCs staff during a branch visit. 
Miss O also complains that Barclays unfairly closed her account. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Miss O visited a branch of Barclays with the intention of paying money into 
an account over the counter. 
Miss Os given us the following details about her visit: 
- Miss O was directed to the self service machines instead of being served at the 
counter
- The self service machines werent working properly
- Money was paid in and transferred but no receipt was supplied
- Miss O was told to queue up again for counter staff to print a statement
- The cashier was rude to Miss O after she gave them feedback about the service 
provided
- The cashier told Miss O to shut up or she wouldnt be served
- When Miss O asked to speak with a manager, the cashier threw her card
- The manager offered no assistance
- Miss O says she recorded branch staff on her phone and left
- Miss O went on to complain about the way she was treated in branch
- Barclays issued notice it was closing her account
Barclays has given the following details about the visit: 
- Miss O was directed to use self service machines as the transaction didnt need to be 
completed by counter staff
- A member of staff helped Miss O reset her PIN
- Funds were deposited and transferred as requested
- In order to get evidence of the transfer, staff referred Miss O back to the counter
- Staff said Miss O became increasingly frustrated at the service provided and began 
to shout
- The cashier asked Miss O to keep her voice down if she wanted to continue being 
served
- Miss O shouted and began filming staff and customers in the branch on her phone
- The police were called
- Miss O left before the Police attended
- Barclays took the decision to close Miss Os account
Miss O complained about the treatment shed experienced in branch. Barclays didnt uphold 
Miss Os complaint and didnt agree it had acted unfairly by closing her account.  
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Os complaint. Barclays forwarded a copy of 
the branch CCTV footage but due to IT issues at this service, we were unable to view it. 
Miss Os told us she has a recording of what happened in branch but hasnt shared it. 
The investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Miss Os complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
do anything else. Miss O asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O has told us she feels Barclays branch staff were rude, aggressive and discriminated 
against her because of her race. Miss Os made it clear that while she was upset at the 
treatment she received in branch, she wasnt abusive or rude to the members of staff 
involved. Id like to make Miss O aware that this service is unable to make findings about 
whether discrimination has taken place as per the Equality Act 2010, as this is a matter of 
law and only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the 
relevant law in relation to what Miss O has said when deciding whether I think Barclays has 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner. This involves taking a number of different things into 
consideration, including the provisions of The Equality Act 2010.
Were an impartial organisation and dont take sides in a dispute. Well consider all the 
available evidence and information when deciding how to fairly resolve a complaint. Where 
information is incomplete or disputed, Ill base my decision on the balance of probability. 
That is, what I think is most likely based on all the available information. That means I have 
to consider what both parties have told us and all the available information when reaching 
my decision. 
I know Miss Os concerned we havent reviewed the CCTV footage. I want to explain that 
Barclays did send us the CCTV footage. But due to systems limitations within our service we 
cant view the file Barclays sent us. Id like to assure Miss O that the reason weve been 
unable to view the footage is due to systems issues, not because it wasnt provided by 
Barclays. 
It's the responsibility of both parties to a complaint to provide the relevant information they 
feel supports their position. I think its also fair to note Ms O has told us she has footage of 
what happened in branch but hasnt sent it to us despite requests. Because of this and the 
problems weve had viewing Barclays CCTV footage Ive not been able to review the 
footage from either side.
I set out the background of what Miss O and Barclays have told us about the branch visit. Im 
aware both parties have given lots more details and information in their submissions and 
want to assure them Ive read and considered everything on file. I wanted to show that there 
were both similarities and differences in the versions of events provided. 
Miss Os told us the cashier told her to shut up. The cashier has told us she asked Miss O to 
keep her voice down as she was shouting. In addition to what Miss Os told us about her 
visit, branch staff have given statements about what happened. The statements are 
consistent in terms of what staff say happened and what was said. They say the cashier 
asked Miss O to speak in a quieter voice and stop shouting, but they didnt hear them tell 
Miss O to shut up. I think its more likely than not that voices were raised on both sides and 
things became heated. Taking all the available information into account, I dont think its 
likely the cashier wouldve told Miss O to shut up. On balance, I think its more likely than not 
that the cashier asked Miss O to speak in a quieter voice. Miss Os also told us the manager refused to help and that her visit left her feeling humiliated 
and embarrassed. Miss O says Barclays staff discriminated against her due to her race.  I 
can understand why Miss O was upset at the way her visit was handled and its clear all 
parties were very distressed. But I think the way both Barclays branch staff and Miss O 
handled the visit most likely led to tempers being raised on all sides. Miss Os told us branch 
staff were abusive and shouted at her. Branch staff, in turn, say Miss O was rude and raised 
her voice throughout the visit. I can see how upset Miss O was following her branch visit. But 
I havent seen any evidence that shows Barclays treated Miss O differently to other 
customers (in similar circumstances) due to her race. 
Both Miss O and branch staff confirmed she took the step of filming staff. Barclays says this, 
in part, led to the Police being called. Barclays went on to take the decision to end its 
banking relationship with Miss O and give notice it would close her account. I understand 
Miss O felt punished and that Barclays decision was unfair. However, Barclays has a duty to 
protect staff and customers, and the evidence from both parties persuades me that Miss Os 
branch visit made Barclays consider if it could do that effectively if it continued the banking 
relationship. The account terms and conditions allow Barclays to close it by giving notice. 
Barclays letter gave Miss O notice of its intention to close her account and Miss O switched 
to a different provider. As Barclays decision is in line with its account terms and conditions, I 
havent found its acted unfairly. 
Miss O has told us about her past experiences and how the branch visit with Barclays made 
her feel. I dont doubt how upsetting Miss O found her branch visit, especially considering 
what shes told us about previous experiences. And I understand how distressing it was to 
find out Barclays had taken the decision to close Miss Os account. I appreciate this caused 
Miss O inconvenience and meant she had to make banking arrangements elsewhere. But, 
for the reasons Ive given above and the circumstances raised, I havent been persuaded 
that Barclays treated Miss O unfairly. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss O but I havent been persuaded to tell Barclays to take any 
further action in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman