DRN-3947705
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Santander UK Plc unreasonably refused to refund her several 
transactions on her bank account which she didnt recognise or authorise. 
What happened
Miss A said following her night shift on 29 July 2022 she saw she had several push 
notifications on her mobile phone to authorise payments out of her bank account. 
She phoned Santander who explained it thought fraud had occurred on her account with 
several card transactions already gone through and several more waiting which were now 
blocked. Santander blocked her account and card and investigated the matter. 
Santander saw that a new mobile phone had been registered to Miss As account, which had 
been used to make the card transactions. In order to register the new phone to her bank 
account, the registration needed verification which was all sent to the original phone on her 
account. And Miss A would have had to then verify and authorise the additional phone via 
the banking app. Therefore, given only Miss A knew her own security details to verify the 
new phone Santander concluded only Miss A or someone on her behalf could have done 
this. So, it didnt uphold her complaint and it refused to provide any refund. 
Miss A then brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong. As Miss A didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. And I do understand 
and appreciate that Miss A will be very disappointed with my decision.
 
The rules under which complaints of this nature are considered are called the Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs). Underpinning this is that it is the consumers duty to keep their 
PIN, log in details to banking apps secure. These are generally detailed in the terms and 
conditions as is the case here. Miss A said she shared these details only with her husband. 
Santander has shown us that Miss As bank account listed her own mobile number to the 
account. It has also shown us that a new device was registered to her account at 19.05 on 
21 July 2022. The disputed transactions were carried out on 29 July 2022. I think if this was 
unknown third party or fraudster, its unusual to wait a week before starting to use the card 
on the new device.
Santander has explained that in order to register another phone or device to Miss As 
account, verification was required by her registered device. This is because the verification 
of the new phone was sent to Miss As original registered phone. There is no evidence that 
Miss A had lost or shared her phone. Therefore, the message to verify the new device to 
Miss As account could only have been done by Miss A or someone on her behalf.
The PSRs explain that the account holder is liable for authorised payments.  A payment is 
authorised if the payer consented to the transactions. Consent under the PSRs is a formal 
one, namely that the payment was made using the agreed form and procedure. In Miss As 
case the disputed payments were authorised in the banking app. The app requires to be 
opened only by the registered devices. Therefore, it follows that since the new device to 
Miss As account was verified by her own phone then either device could then make 
payments on her bank account. 
In the absence of how Miss As phone was accessed, the only rational explanation is that 
she would have had to have been aware pf the additional device being set up, given I 
consider Santanders security requirements were robust in how another device was added to 
the account. Which of course was then used to carry the disputed card transactions on her 
account. Given the new device was appropriately verified, Santander is then also required 
under the PSRs to make payments promptly when they are requested in the agreed format, 
which is the case here.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman