DRN-3058810
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has refused to pay for the full 
cost of repairs for a claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S reported a badly leaking downpipe from his flat. RSAs contractors visited the flat and 
found the downpipe was badly corroded and required replacing. To do this it determined 
scaffolding would be needed to allow access.
RSA says Mr Ss policy doesnt cover the cost of gaining access for the repair. It says he 
must pay the cost of the scaffolding. Mr S disputes this as he says access is available to the 
engineers and his policy should cover the cost of the scaffolding.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He decided not to uphold the complaint. He 
felt that RSA had been fair in relying on the terms of the policy, which require Mr S to provide 
access. The investigator concluded that access meant allowing RSAs contractor the means 
to carry out the repair safely, which means the provision of scaffolding in these 
circumstances.
Mr S disagreed. He felt RSA hadnt demonstrated that scaffolding was essential or a legal 
requirement. He also felt the cost was excessive. The investigator didnt change his view 
and Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
This has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
When Mr Ss claim was assessed, it was determined that scaffolding was needed. This was 
because the metal downpipe was rotted, heavy and at some height meaning repairs would 
be dangerous to complete without scaffolding. 
RSA refers to the following policy terms that it believes support its view:
Rights and Responsibilities: You must allow the CORGI HomePlan engineer access to your 
home to carry out any necessary work.
And:
Access and Making Good: Any costs for materials and labour needed: to gain access to 
your boiler or central heating system, to gain access to pipes or wiring within walls, ceilings 
or underfloor and for redecoration, restoration of walls, ceilings fixtures and fittings or 
replacement officer coverings, once we finish.
Also:
Policy Exclusions: If the CORGI HomePlan engineer cannot gain access or considers that 
the circumstances to carry out the work are potentially difficult or dangerous or where there 
Is a risk to health or safety, (e.g. where work Is required In a loft space and permanent 
boards, railings, lighting or ladders are not In place) the CORGI HomePlan engineer
may at their discretion discontinue the repair. You will be contacted by CORGI HomePlan 
about this.
I note Mr Ss view of access is that there is nothing obstructing the engineers from making 
repairs. Whereas RSA believes access in these circumstances, means the provision of 
scaffolding, as it would be unsafe to carry out repairs without it. 
I have thought about whether its fair for RSA to rely on these terms and exclude the cost of 
scaffolding from Mr Ss claim.  
I dont think there is a question of Mr S not allowing access, in relation to the terms under 
Rights and responsibilities. I accept that the contractors will be allowed access to the area. 
Albeit scaffolding has been determined necessary to carry out the repairs safely. 
The Access and Making Good term says RSA isnt responsible for the costs of materials or 
labour to gain access to pipes or wiring that are the source of the problem. In this case its 
an external downpipe that is the problem. This isnt within a wall, ceiling or underfloor area 
as described in the terms. However, I dont think its reasonable to expect all possible 
scenarios to be listed here. The key word used is access. In the circumstances described 
here gaining access requires scaffolding to be in place to allow safe repair of the downpipe. 
Im not an expert in determining how such repairs should safely be carried out. I must rely on 
the professional opinion of RSAs contractors, as no other expert opinion is available. 
Clearly, the contractors are not prepared to carry out repairs unless scaffolding is in place. 
As above, it explains the height, weight and condition of the downpipe as the reason for this. 
Based on this information, the decision to require scaffolding seems reasonable.
The terms under Policy Exclusions also support this view. It says contractors may 
discontinue the repair, if they cannot gain access or the work is dangerous or a risk to health 
and safety. I think RSA has reasonably explained why undertaking repairs would be 
dangerous without the use of scaffolding.          
I note Mr S also says the cost of the scaffolding is excessive. My understanding is that he is 
not required to accept the quote from RSAs contractors. The policy requires him to provide 
access. But he is not prevented from sourcing scaffolding from another contractor. I 
appreciate this may involve some inconvenience, but he is able to shop around to see if this 
is available at a reduced cost.  
In considering all of this, I dont think RSA has been unreasonable in relying on the terms of 
the policy and requiring Mr S to pay for the cost of scaffolding. So, I cant fairly ask RSA to 
do anything more to resolve the complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman