DRN-1709832
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc are holding him liable for two transactions made with 
his debit card that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So I wont repeat it 
again here, instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision and will only give a very 
brief overview. 
Santanders systems have recorded the following in relation to the debit card activity at the 
time in question:
1. 3.22am £40 ATM cash withdrawal made using chip and PIN;
2. 4.11am there was a chip and PIN payment made for £351;
3. 4.53am there was a chip and PIN payment attempted for £452. This was declined by 
Santander and a text was sent (at 4.55am) to Mr Es number asking if this was a 
genuine transaction;
4. 5.16am Santander received a response from Mr Es number confirming the 
transaction to be genuine;
5. 5.23am the £452 chip and PIN debit card transaction was tried again, and this time 
successfully processed;
6. 6.01am £2.79 contactless payment for fast food. 
 
Mr E says he made the transactions listed at one and six (the ATM withdrawal and the 
payment for food). But says he didnt make or authorise the transactions listed at two to four 
inclusive. He also said that his card and phone had never left his possession. And that he 
had never shared his PIN number with a third party.
Around the same time there was also activity on Mr Es online banking which he disputed. A 
payment for £450 was set up to a new payee. This payment was held by Santanders 
systems and when Mr E said he hadnt made that request it didnt proceed. Santander then 
reissued Mr Es online banking details to protect his account. 
When Mr E disputed the debit card transactions Santander investigated. But ultimately they 
held him responsible for them. In summary they said that the genuine card had been used 
and that the PIN had been entered correctly first time. Plus theyd had a response from Mr 
Es phone confirming one transaction. So overall they couldnt explain how a third party 
could have made these transactions.
Being unhappy with this Mr E referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
didnt think it should be upheld. He thought the evidence suggested it was more likely than 
not that Mr E authorised the transactions. As he still disagrees, Mr E has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for essentially the same reasons as our 
investigator. Let me explain why. 
Generally, Santander can only hold Mr E liable for the transactions he disputes if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he authorised them. Im satisfied by the 
technical evidence that Santander have provided that Mr Es genuine card was used for the 
disputed transactions. This shows the chip was read by the merchants terminal and that the 
PIN was correctly entered. But the regulations relevant to this type of payment say that isnt 
enough, on its own, to show that Mr E authorised the transactions.
So Ive gone on to think about whether or not Mr E consented to the transactions. On 
balance, I agree with Santander that the evidence supports this is more likely than not to be 
the case. I say that for the following reasons:
Mr E has confirmed that he was in possession of his card throughout and used it for 
genuine transactions a few hours either side of those in dispute. I think its unlikely 
someone could have removed his card, and replaced it again without him having 
noticed.
Ive not seen evidence to persuade me how Mr Es PIN number might have been 
compromised. Mr E says he never wrote it down or shared it with anyone else. I think 
it is particularly unlikely that someone could have guessed the PIN correctly on the 
first attempt. And even if Mr E had been observed making his genuine ATM 
withdrawal, it still doesnt explain how the card could be taken and replaced without 
him noticing.
Mr E has confirmed that no-one else had access to his phone (which itself is 
protected by a passcode). And Santander received a response from that number, 
confirming one of the disputed transactions to be genuine. Its hard to explain how it 
would have been possible for a third party to have sent that response. 
 
I cant say with 100% certainty what happened in relation to the transactions in dispute. But 
my role is to decide if Santanders decision to hold Mr E liable for them was fair and 
reasonable. Based on the available evidence, I think it was. 
I appreciate Mr E thinks Santander ought to have done more to investigate the merchants 
involved. But during one of his calls with them Santander explained this would be something 
that the police may be able to assist with. Santander arent responsible for verifying 
merchants who accept debit card payments, so I dont think they need to do more. 
Mr E also expressed dissatisfaction that he was without access to his card and account for 
around two weeks whilst Santander investigated, especially when they concluded he was 
responsible for the debit card transactions. When a bank receives a report of fraud, Id 
expect them to take steps to secure the account and their customers funds. So by blocking 
online banking and issuing a new card, this is what Santander did. These are steps Id 
expect them to take immediately and irrespective of the outcome of their investigation. So 
whilst I can understand why it was frustrating for Mr E - I dont think Santander acted 
inappropriately. 
Im not persuaded that Santander, in the circumstances of this complaint, have treated Mr E 
unfairly. So Im not going to tell them they need to do more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman