DRN-4222226
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr C with a loan for £5,000.00 in November 2020. This loan had 
an APR of 44.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£7,170.96, including interest, fees and charges of £2,170.96, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £300. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Cs complaint and he thought that 118 118 Money 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr C with his loan. So he thought that 
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Im concerned that 118 118 Moneys own checks showed that Mr C was already significantly 
indebted and a significant proportion of his monthly income was already being taken up by 
repayments to existing credit commitments. Furthermore, the credit checks also showed that 
Mr Cs balances on his revolving credit accounts were close to the limit and hed previously 
had difficulties with payments to credit. 
118 118 Money has argued that the purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. But Ive not 
seen anything to support this was the case. In any event, as there is no indication of which 
debts Mr C was going to consolidate, its unclear to me how or what was going to be 
consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mr Cs already precarious 
financial position going forward.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr C has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Cs financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 
118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Cs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Cs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr C. As 118 118 
Money provided Mr C with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr C ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr C lost out because of what 
118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr C by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Cs loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr C made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr C paid more than £5,000.00 then 118 118 Money should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr C to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, 118 118 
Money should remove any adverse information it recorded about this loan from       
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman