DRN-2936758
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) take too long to credit their 
account with faster payments.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K receive Mr Ks salary by the faster payments method. Prior to July 2020, he 
was paid by BACS, but his employer changed to faster payments after that time. His monthly 
payments vary in amount  in August 2020, the payment was £5063.70. In April 2021, it was 
£5066.39.
Mrs K and Mr K complained that Santander dont allow him to withdraw money from his 
account until at least the following day, and sometimes longer than that. The amount doesnt 
clear on the same day. So  they must transfer money into the account to cover bills and 
direct debits. This is very inconvenient and causes them a lot of stress.
Santander said theyd discussed the complaint with Mrs K and Mr K and explained their 
position. They considered the complaint was dealt with. Ive listened to the call between Mrs 
K and Mr K and Santanders complaint department  Santander explained that they need to 
undertake checks under their legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mrs K and Mr K brought their complaint to us. Our investigator issued two views. The first 
upheld the complaint  he said Santander were inefficient in carrying out their checks. 
Santander provided more information, and he then issued a second view which said that 
Santander acted fairly. Under the legislation in the Payment Services Directive (PSD), banks 
have until the next working day to credit accounts with a faster payment  and that doesnt 
include bank holidays and weekends. Hed looked at the data from Santander and confirmed 
that theyd complied with this.
Mrs K and Mr K asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K and Mr K have told us and given examples of when Mr Ks salary isnt being credited 
to their joint account on the day its received by Santander. They can see the credit in the 
account but cant draw against it as Santander restrict it. And  usually, when they wait until 
the following day  24 hours later, they still cant draw against it. Santander told us they do 
this to comply with their regulatory obligations  to help prevent financial crime and fraud. 
During the period while the payment is held, Santander undertake their necessary checks. 
And  they must do this each time for the payments to Mrs K and Mr K  as they are for 
different amounts each time, so effectively they are treated as one-off payments, rather than 
regular ones. Its a fact that all banks, including Santander, must undertake these checks  
and this service cant interfere with those processes. 
The payments legislation is clear  the PSD says that banks, including Santander, must 
credit accounts with the proceeds of faster payments (and other forms of payment) by the 
following working day. On the Faster Payments website this is described: As a minimum, all 
financial institutions in the UK must abide by the Payment Services Directive (PSD) - this 
states that any payments made by mobile, internet or phone banking (including standing 
orders) must arrive by the end of the following business day at the latest. The law also says 
the beneficiary bank must make funds available to their customer as soon as they receive 
the instruction (noting that some institutions do not operate on weekends or public 
holidays). So  Ive looked at what happened with the credits to Mrs K and Mr Ks account  
using the data in Santanders records. These show how the credits to the account were 
received, and then released to Mrs K and Mr K:
August 2020  (funds) came in 20 August, and released 21 August
September 2020 - came in 22 September and released 23 September
October 2020 - came in 23 October and released 26 October (weekend)
November 2020 - came in 23 November and released 24 November
December 2020 - came in 23 December and released 24 December
January 2021 - came in 21 January and released 22 January
February 2021 - came in 23 February and released 24 February  
March 2021 - came in 23 March and released 24 March
April 2021 - came in 23 April and released 26 April (weekend)
May 2021- came in 21 May and released 24 May (weekend)
So  Santander did credit Mrs K and Mr Ks account in line with the PSD legislation  and 
where there was a longer delay, it was because of a weekend.
Mrs K and Mr K have made the point that in their experience, the funds arent even released 
within 24 hours  they told us that theyd tried to draw the money at around 9am to 10am in 
the morning on the following day - but couldnt. But Ive seen Santanders records, and in 
every case, the funds were released later during the following working day  so effectively, 
longer than 24 hours  but still within the following working day. This may explain the 
position for Mrs K and Mr K.
Mrs K and Mr K told us that they thought that other employees in Mr Ks business dont have 
the same problems with their banks  I cant comment on this. But I can only say that all 
banks must comply with the same legislation as Santander. I noted on the call with 
Santander that Mr K said he might speak to his company to see if they can change the way 
the payments are made, and this might be a way forward for Mrs K and Mr K.
So  in this case, Santander are complying with their legal and regulatory obligations, and so 
 I cant say they are in the wrong. And so  while I appreciate Mrs K and Mr Ks feelings 
here, I wont be asking Santander to do anymore.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman