DRN-3370587
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt help recover money he lost as part 
of a scam.
What happened
In 2019, Mr L came across an investment opportunity advertised by an individual Ill refer to 
as G. Mr L says that G persuaded him to invest with a company called Infinox Capital 
(Infinox) on the pretence that he could make a minimum profit of 10% on forex trading and 
withdraw his money at any time. It is my understanding that G managed the trades on Mr Ls 
behalf. Mr L says G told him both G and Infinox were regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
Mr L sent money to his trading account from his HSBC account as well as credit cards held 
with other financial institutions. The payments from HSBC which are in dispute went to a 
company called KTAFX.com. Mr L says he believes this firm was an affiliate of Infinox. 
In his submissions, Mr L has told us that his wife also opened a trading account with Infinox. 
From the available information, three deposits were made to Mrs Ls trading account from 
Mr Ls HSBC account. These arent in dispute and are therefore not the subject matter of this 
complaint. Ive highlighted the payments  and the corresponding credits from Mrs Ls 
account  with an asterisk (*) in the table below: 
Date (on bank 
statement)Type Merchant/Payee Amount
22 September 2019 Bank transfer* Mr Ls wife £450 (credit)
23 September 2019 Debit card* KTAFX.COM £500
23 September 2019 Debit card KTAFX.COM £5,000
23 September 2019 Debit card KTAFX.COM £5,000
23 September 2019 Debit card KTAFX.COM £12,000
2 October 2019 Bank transfer* Mr Ls wife £200 (credit)
3 October 2019 Debit card* INFINOX CAPITAL £200
25 October 2019 Bank transfer* Mr Ls wife £100 (credit)
28 October 2019 Debit card* INFINOX CAPITAL £100
23 January 2020 Refund INFINOX CAPITAL PT £82.12 (credit)
Total payments to Mr Ls 
trading account from his 
HSBC account£22,000
Total refunded £82.12
Total loss suffered by Mr L £21,917.88
Towards the end of 2019, Mr L realised hed been scammed when he started losing money 
very quickly and noticed a lot of media coverage and warnings about G. He tried withdrawing 
his funds and closing his trading account but only heard back from Infinox once majority of 
his funds had been lost. 
Mr L disputed the transactions to KTAFX.COM with HSBC and requested it to process 
chargebacks. Unhappy with the lack of progress, Mr L complained to HSBC and it ultimately 
declined to raise a chargeback for the disputed transactions. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded that HSBC didnt act 
unfairly by not attempting a chargeback. But it ought to have intervened when Mr L made the 
second £5,000-payment on 23 September 2019 as there were fraud triggers by then. Had 
HSBC done so, the investigator thought that Mr L wouldnt have gone ahead with this 
payment and the subsequent payment for £12,000 (this amount was incorrectly quoted as 
£15,000 in the assessment). She asked HSBC to reimburse the last two transactions, 
making a 20% deduction as Mr L didnt do enough checks before investing. 
Mr L accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC didnt. Amongst other comments, it 
noted that Mr L had received four credits totalling £832.12 which hadnt been taken into 
consideration. 
The investigator revised her recommendation with a further deduction for this amount. But 
Mr L explained that the only credit he had received from Infinox was for £82.12. The other 
amounts were bank transfers from friends and family with a statement reference of Infinox. 
The complaint was escalated to me and I noted that Mr L had told us hed made payments 
on behalf of his wife and the credits which HSBC had highlighted were transfers into his 
account to fund those payments. I contacted HSBC to make a correction to what the 
investigator had said and explained that I would only be taking the credit of £82.12 into 
account should the complaint be upheld. 
As Id also noted large transfers from individuals which Mr L utilised for the payments in 
dispute, I wrote to him informally about what hed said regarding receiving funds from friends 
and family to invest. If the funds invested had belonged to Mr Ls friends and family, he 
hadnt suffered a financial loss. Mr L has since provided statements showing he has repaid 
one of the individuals back already and continues to repay the other two, so he has suffered 
a financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls dealings were with G. Given the information Ive found about G during my research 
and taking into account the specific circumstances of this case, Im persuaded that Mr L fell 
victim to a scam rather than simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Mr L didnt make the disputed payments to G; he paid KTAFX.COM. This is important 
because HSBC was only able to chargeback against the merchant he paid, not another 
party. I appreciate Mr L has said he believes KTAFX.COM was an affiliate of Infinox. But I havent seen conclusive evidence that KTAFX.COM, Infinox and G are the same merchant. 
It isnt clear what involvement KTAFX.COM had in the payment. That being the case, Im not 
persuaded there were reasonable grounds for a chargeback. It follows that I dont think 
HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably by not presenting a chargeback.  
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ls 
funds, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened before allowing the payments 
to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr L using his legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which he is liable unless 
theres evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, 
and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. HSBC is aware of our approach of 
expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, to have systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of 
fraud and, in some situations, to make additional checks before processing payments, or 
declining them altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud. 
I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have picked up payments to KTAFX.COM as being 
suspicious solely based on the merchant name. There were no regulator warnings in place 
about it when Mr L made the disputed payments. But this isnt the end of the matter. Ive 
considered the operation of Mr Ls account in the year leading up to the disputed payments. 
This is to determine whether the payments were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think 
HSBC ought to have intervened. 
I dont consider the first disputed payment of £5,000 to be unusual or uncharacteristic based 
on Mr Ls account activity. But, the second payment for the same amount on the very same 
day does stand out as unusual activity for his account. In my view, the proximity of this 
transaction to the previous one ought to have triggered HSBCs systems and I consider it 
would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr L before processing it.
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr L about the payments, Ive 
no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing and how he came to 
finding out about the investment opportunity. While it is not up to our service to dictate what 
questions a bank should ask, HSBC could have, for example, asked how Mr L had been 
contacted, whether he had parted with personal details in order to open a trading account, 
whether the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual or advertised on 
social media etc. These are all typical features of investment scams  and form part of a 
reasonable line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type 
of scam. Im satisfied that Mr L would have likely shared information which aligned with the hallmarks 
of this type of scam, as he had been given no reason to think he had to hide this information 
from his bank, and neither had he been coached to tell them something different.
       
HSBC states that it would have only been able to give Mr L a general investment scam 
warning had it contacted him, given there were no regulator warnings. It argues that its 
unlikely Mr L would have stopped in his tracks as he would have been more likely to pay 
attention to his discussions with G rather than a generic warning from his bank. 
Ive considered HSBCs comments, but Im not persuaded by its argument. Had it indicated 
the potential for fraud and provided Mr L with a potential scam warning, it seems more 
probable to me that he would have looked into the investment opportunity further and 
discovered more information about this type of investment, including the increasing 
prevalence of scams, and whether claims made by G were true. Mr L could have discovered 
that G wasnt regulated by the FCA and its likely that he would have come across various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of such scams. So, I am satisfied that a generic warning 
about investment scams from his trusted bank would probably have been enough to give 
Mr L second thoughts such that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the last two payments.
I therefore conclude that HSBC ought to have intervened on the second £5,000-payment to 
KTAFX.COM on 23 September 2019. And had it done so, Mr L wouldnt have incurred 
further losses. The two payments add up to £17,000. Mr Ls already recovered £82.12. So, 
its only fair that this amount is deducted from the loss that HSBC needs to reimburse. 
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mr L is partly to blame for what happened. And I 
think that he is. Im not aware that he carried out any due diligence into the investment, the 
broker, or the investment type to reassure himself that the opportunity as presented to him 
by G was genuine. Or that G was a legitimate broker. Mr L had some concerns, as 
demonstrated in his correspondence with G, but didnt independently carry out checks. So, I 
do think that Mr L ought to bear some responsibility for his losses. 
HSBC argues that a 20% deduction as recommended by our investigator doesnt go far 
enough. It says the available evidence demonstrates that Mr Ls failures were more 
significant and warrant a deduction of at least 50%. 
Ive considered HSBCs arguments carefully but, in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont agree a deduction of more than 20% is warranted. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Mr L had investment experience such that he ought to have 
realised he had been given inaccurate information, or that what he was told was too good to 
be true. Investing in such areas as forex can produce good returns and a return of 10% 
doesnt sound that unrealistic. I do accept that such investments do come with a lot of 
volatility. But this might not be known by the layperson. 
HSBC has questioned the application of 8% interest on the refund. But the 8% interest isnt 
there to replace interest Mr L might have earnt had the money stayed in his account or was 
invested into cash-based investments. It is to compensate him for the loss of use of the 
money. It has long been our approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate for being 
deprived of the funds, and I remain satisfied that it is fair to apply it in this case.
Putting things right
To put matters right, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to reimburse the last two disputed payments 
on 23 September 2019, less the £82.12 that has already been recovered, along with a 20% 
deduction for contributory negligence. The bank should also add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year (less any lawfully 
deductible tax), calculated from the date of each reimbursed payment to the date of refund.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
needs to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman