DRN-3320195
The complaint
Mr W complained about The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (E&L). He 
isnt happy that it turned down a claim under his wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out wedding insurance in July 2019 for his wedding which was due to take place 
in July 2021. And when he realised members of his family couldnt make the wedding, as 
they couldnt leave their home country due to Covid-19 restrictions, he looked to move his 
wedding date so they could attend. 
But when Mr W made a claim under his insurance policy to cover the additional costs 
incurred in moving the wedding date E&L turned it down. This was because the particular 
circumstances surrounding the claim werent covered under the policy. And because the 
wedding was rescheduled to a date outside the restrictions of the policy schedule (over a 
year after the original wedding date). When Mr W complained to E&L about this it maintained 
its position. So, Mr W complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Mr W had found himself in she didnt think E&L had acted 
unreasonably when it turned down the claim. She explained the policy clearly outlined the 
circumstances that were covered and that the restriction in travel that some of Mr Ws family 
faced wasnt one of these. And highlighted the wedding would have needed to be 
rescheduled before July 2022, as opposed to 2023, to fall within the scope of the policy. 
As Mr W didnt agree, as he believed his family members were in quarantine (which was 
covered under the policy), the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W, but Ill explain why.
I appreciate having to cancel and move the date of the wedding would have been extremely 
distressing for Mr W and his family and I know this will have been a difficult time for them. 
But the question I need to consider is whether E&L did anything wrong in turning down the 
claim Mr W made. And I think its worth pointing out that the onus is on Mr W to establish, on 
balance, that hes suffered a loss covered by the policy.
I can understand Mr Ws position, as he hoped the policy would cover any increased costs 
incurred when he chose to rearrange the original wedding date. And I can understand why 
Mr W chose this path as a way forward in that he wanted to ensure all the family members 
could attend the wedding. Indeed, I note he put the wedding date back an extra year in order 
to try and ensure restrictions had been lifted before the rearranged wedding date which was 
understandable.
However, as Mr W is aware insurance products dont cover every eventuality and 
unfortunately the scenario he faced and the choices he made arent covered under the 
policy. And E&L have highlighted there simply isnt an insured peril that covers the particular 
set of circumstances surrounding Mr Ws claim. 
Mr Ws policy provides cover in relation to certain events that have caused the cancellation 
of his wedding. In this instance Mr W chose to cancel the wedding as some family members 
couldnt make the wedding due to travel restrictions in their own country. But the policy terms 
and conditions dont cover this and as this isnt an insured event E&L turned down their 
claim. 
I know this is disappointing and, at the time, Mr W hoped any increased costs would be 
covered. But that isnt how the policy works and I cant ask E&L to step outside the policy 
terms and conditions. I say this as Im satisfied this isnt an insured event under the policy 
and the policy documentation is clear. I know it doesnt specify the exact circumstances that 
Mr W faced, but I wouldnt expect an insurer to outline every possible eventuality when cover 
isnt provided. And it is clear E&L will only pay costs in relation to the circumstances 
expressed under the policy. 
The policy clearly outlines what is covered and Mr W has referred to certain events under 
the policy that would be covered. He has argued his claim should be covered under the 
Cancellation and Expenses part of the policy which says we insure you if you have to 
cancel or unexpectantly curtail the booked wedding or reception due to: Death, injury, 
illness, quarantine or jury service to any member of the wedding party. In effect Mr W 
maintains that some of the wedding party was held in quarantine in their home country as 
they couldnt travel to the UK. 
While I can understand Mr Ws point I dont think the general travel restrictions placed 
around Covid-19 in this country or for his family members abroad in this instance would be 
classed as quarantine. I know Mr Ws family faced significant restrictions in leaving their 
home country. But they hadnt been placed in direct quarantine or isolation having tested 
positive for Covid-19 or because they had been in contact with someone who had Covid-19, 
they just faced wider travel restrictions. 
The word quarantine isnt defined within the policy. So, Ive considered several dictionary 
definitions of the word quarantine including those provided by Mr W. And ultimately Im 
satisfied Mr Ws wider family werent medically advised to separate themselves entirely from 
other people to prevent exposing others or being exposed to an infectious disease. They 
werent advised to isolate or to quarantine.
Taking into account the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word quarantine, as well as the 
context in which the word is used within the policy. I dont think a reasonable person would 
consider that this meant Mr Ws family was in quarantine as they could undertake basic 
movement to maintain family life  they hadnt been told to quarantine, isolate or not to leave 
their home as they were contagious and they were just following general Covid-19 advice 
across their country. Indeed, most people faced significant restrictions to travel and in their 
life in this country without having to quarantine. So I dont think it would be fair to interpret Mr 
Ws familys inability to fly without a travel exemption and attend the wedding due to travel 
restrictions in their own country as having to quarantine.
Finally, even if I was satisfied E&L had acted unreasonably in turning down the claim for this 
reason, and Im not persuaded it has, it is clear Mr Ws claim still wouldnt be met. This is because cover for re-arrangements of the wedding states that These extra costs are limited 
to a maximum of 50% of the cost of the original services. Any rearrangements to your 
wedding must take place within 1 year of the ceremony date as stated on your policy 
schedule.
Mr W accepts the original wedding date was in July 2021 and as the wedding was 
rescheduled more than a year after this that this falls outside the scope of the policy. 
Although Mr W has made a number of points round this and that he was looking to keep 
costs down while ensuring his family members could attend (as he thought there was a 
better chance of restrictions being lifted by that point in time) I think the policy is clear that 
this wouldnt be covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. Ultimately, Im 
satisfied the wedding would have needed to be rescheduled before July 2022 to fall within 
the scope of the policy. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr W and his family who were placed 
in a difficult situation, I dont think E&L have acted unreasonably in turning down the claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman