DRN-1488494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) has 
limited the value of their travel insurance claim. 
 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs R were on holiday when Mrs R became unwell. She first saw 
a doctor at their hotel who prescribed her some medication. Two days later this doctor sent 
her by ambulance to hospital as she was still unwell. Mrs R was discharged later that day 
and her and Mr R then flew home as planned.
A week after she returned home Mrs R went to see her GP. Following this, she put in a claim 
with Catlin for her medical bills abroad. Catlin accepted the claim but only agreed to 
reimburse Mrs R £500. It pointed out that, in line with the policy terms this was the maximum 
amount payable if pre-authorisation was not gained from Catlin. As Mr and Mrs R hadnt 
contacted or discussed the claim with Catlin while they were abroad, it didnt agree to pay 
anything more.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Catlin. They explained that they didnt realise their costs would 
be above £500. And that everything happened very quickly once Mrs R saw the doctor the 
second time, including the doctor calling the ambulance without their prior knowledge. Mrs R 
said she pushed to be discharged from hospital as quickly as possible to limit the costs and 
make sure they could still return home on their booked flight the next day.
Catlin maintained its stance that as the costs hadnt been authorised only £500 was payable 
to Mr and Mrs R. So they brought their complaint to our service. I issued a provisional 
decision on this case in March 2020. I set out that the key area I needed to decide was 
around when Mr and Mrs R shouldve contacted Catlin about the claim  as this determined 
what costs wouldve been covered.
Catlin said that if Mr or Mrs R had called it after seeing the doctor the first time it couldve 
advised if the medication was correct and what to do/where to go if Mrs R got worse. 
Looking at what happened, I agreed with Catlin that they couldve called it during the days in 
between seeing the doctor. While the policy explained that costs over £500 would not be 
covered if not pre-authorised, the terms for claiming under this section (emergency medical 
and repatriation expenses) of the policy read (my emphasis):
If, during your trip, you become ill or sustain a bodily injury we will pay up to the amount 
shown in the summary of cover for costs incurred outside your home country that have been 
authorised by the emergency assistance company for:
1.emergency medical and surgical treatment in the nearest appropriate hospital, 
including qualified medical practitioner fees, hospital expenses and ambulance 
costs;So Mr and Mrs R actually needed to get all costs authorised in line with the policy terms  
but Catlin accepted their claim up to the limit it sets when costs werent pre-authorised. So 
I thought about all the parts that made up this claim and whether or not each one should be 
covered by Catlin. I divided the costs into the first doctor visit; the second doctor visit and 
hospitalisation; and the ambulance costs.
Based on what Mrs R told us about her symptoms the first time she felt unwell, I thought that 
if they had called Catlin, it wouldve advised her to go to a local clinic to seek medical help. 
So as this is what she did, I considered it should be covering these costs.
In terms of the second doctor visit, as I considered they couldve called Catlin before seeing 
the hotel doctor the second time, I set out what I believed was most likely to happen next if 
they had done this.
Considering how unwell Mrs R was, it seemed most likely that even if they had called Catlin 
rather than going to the doctor again, Catlins team wouldve advised Mrs R to go to hospital 
urgently. I thought this wouldve been the case also because of how close it was to the date 
Mr and Mrs R were due to fly home. Catlin wouldve been conscious of Mrs Rs health and 
also the potential costs of her not recovering in time to make her original flight home  
resulting in it having to re-arrange both her and Mr Rs flights home. 
From the information available, Mrs R visited a local hospital and the treatment received was 
in-line with the diagnosis. I appreciated Catlin wouldve wanted to be involved in Mrs Rs 
care to ensure it was both given and costed appropriately. But it hadnt provided evidence to 
show its position has been prejudiced for this part by Mr and Mrs R not calling. So I also 
considered it should cover the hospital costs in full, as it seemed most likely this treatment 
was inevitable in the situation and is what meant Mrs R was able to recover enough to fly 
home as planned.
I then considered the ambulance costs. I appreciated that Mr and Mrs R didnt call the 
ambulance themselves or ask for an ambulance and that this decision was made by the 
treating doctor. However I hadnt seen any evidence that Mrs R needed the emergency 
medical assistance an ambulance and paramedics provided. It seemed she needed to get to 
hospital urgently, but I hadnt seen that she needed to do this by ambulance. I thought that if 
either she or Mr R had called Catlin it wouldve wanted them to go to hospital, but it wouldnt 
have sent Mrs R by ambulance. It wouldve instead arranged a taxi or other transport to 
collect her from the hotel and take her to the hospital. It wouldve been aware of the high 
cost an ambulance involved and I couldnt say it wouldve felt it necessary to authorise this 
mode of transport in this situation. 
I know that as Mr and Mrs R didnt call Catlin  and so instead relied on the hospital doctor  
that the decision to call an ambulance was taken out of their hands. But this isnt something 
I said I could fairly ask Catlin to cover. Under their policy terms they shouldve been liaising 
with Catlin once Mrs R became unwell and they started incurring costs. And I believed that if 
they had done this, they wouldnt have incurred the cost of the ambulance. So I couldnt now 
ask Catlin to cover this cost, as it wasnt something I believed it wouldve paid out had the 
policy terms been adhered to.
So I set out I was intending for Catlin to cover the costs Mr and Mrs R had submitted for her 
first visit (doctor visit and medication); costs from her visit to the hospital  including all 
medical costs incurred at the hospital; any payment made to the doctor the second time as 
Catlin isnt covering Mrs Rs actual cost to the hospital; and Mrs Rs return journey cost to 
return to her hotel.Mr and Mrs R responded disagreeing with the provisional decision. They explained that 
Mrs R was wheelchaired into the ambulance and put straight onto a drip  which couldnt 
have happened in a taxi. They considered the paramedics quick action contributed to Mrs R 
recovering and being able to fly home as planned.
Catlin responded saying it still considered the policy terms had been applied correctly, but it 
took on board my comments. It said it was willing to cover the cost of the taxi journey from 
the hospital back to the hotel twice  to create a hypothetical taxi journey from the hotel to 
the hospital  as it agreed this was the cost it wouldve paid.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Rs further comments about the actions of the paramedics. But 
this hasnt changed my decision on whether the ambulance costs should be covered.
I accept that the paramedics put Mrs R straight on a drip and that the fluids will have helped 
her recovery. However, as I set out, I think she or Mr R could and should have contacted 
Catlin after her first doctors visit  which means theres a two-day window when they 
couldve called and so opportunity for her to have received medical help sooner. And from 
the information provided on Mrs Rs claims paperwork, the hotel and hospital were a 30-
minute drive away from one another. I appreciate the actions of the paramedics, but Im still 
not persuaded that this was an emergency situation that needed an ambulance. Or that 
travelling by taxi wouldve prevented Mrs R being able to be discharged later that evening 
and making her flight the next day. So Im still satisfied that Catlin wouldve sent her to the 
hospital by taxi if she or Mr R had called it.
So it follows that my overall findings remain unchanged from my provisional decision. I 
consider Catlin is required to cover the initial doctors visit and the hospitalisation visit 
including a taxi back. But it doesnt need to cover the ambulance costs.
 
Putting things right
XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) should cover the costs that Mr and Mrs R 
have submitted as part of their claim for:
Mrs Rs medical costs from her first doctor visit (doctor visit and medication)
Mrs Rs costs from her stay at the hospital, including: 
oAll medical costs incurred at the hospital
oAny payment made to the doctor the second time 
Mrs Rs return journey cost back to her hotel from the hospital. This amount should 
be paid twice  as offered by Catlin  to as best possible replicate what it wouldve 
paid to get her to the hospital then back to the hotel
 
 
My final decisionIm partially upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against XL Catlin Insurance Company UK 
Limited (Catlin).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman