DRN-3858359
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy American International Group UK Limited (AIG) declined his claim. Hes 
also unhappy with their handling of it.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr D lost his mobile phone. He said he was playing in the park with his 
children and put his phone with his jacket at the side of a basketball court as it was too big 
for his pocket.
When he returned to the jacket his phone was missing and as he was unable to locate it, he 
put in a claim with AIG. They declined the claim as they felt Mr D hadnt complied with the 
terms and conditions of the policy by taking reasonable care of the phone as hed left it 
unattended in a public space.
AIG accepted some failings in relation to the service provided when handling the claim and 
paid £70 compensation in recognition of this.
Mr D referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think AIG had declined the 
claim unfairly and therefore didnt need to take any further action. Remaining unhappy Mr D 
asked for an ombudsman to review it, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling in relation to this complaint. Whilst I have considered 
all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on all of it. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service. 
AIG have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline a 
claim unreasonably. 
Generally, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. The terms and conditions set out 
the agreement between AIG and Mr D and what is and isnt covered under his policy. They 
say:
What is NOT covered
Failure to take reasonable care of your device. If You dont take care of Your Device 
and thereby knowingly put the Device at risk, Your claim may be denied.
For example, if You intentionally do any of the below and Your Device is subsequently 
Lost, Stolen, or Damaged, Your claim may be denied for failing to take reasonable care 
of the Device:
Leaving Your Device somewhere others can easily see and access it without 
securing the Device (if available), such as on a bench in a gyms changing rooms 
instead of locking it in a locker or leaving it on a caf table and leaving to pick up 
Your order.
Having listened to the telephone calls, in particular when first registering the claim, Mr D told 
AIG he had been to the park with his wife and children. As the phone was too big to put in 
his pocket, he said he left it with his jacket at the side of the basketball court.
After being asked questions by AIG, he explained he had driven to the park but hadnt 
thought to leave the phone in the car as he hadnt expected to lose it.
I can understand why Mr D couldnt leave the phone in his pocket and at the time of arriving 
at the park, he may not have considered hed need to leave the phone inside the car for safe 
keeping. But once he was aware he couldnt keep his phone on him whilst playing with the 
children I think he shouldve taken more care to secure it, especially as he said there were 
other people nearby at the time. 
I say this because the phone was left on the floor with his jacket so it was out in the open in 
a public space making it accessible to anyone. He had a car nearby where he couldve 
stored the phone and he was also at the park with his wife who couldve held onto it for him. 
So he had options to secure the device.
I note that after the claim was declined Mr D said he couldve lost it elsewhere, but he didnt 
say this in the initial reporting of the loss and provided specific information in relation to 
losing it in the park, so it isnt unreasonable for AIG to rely on the initial testimony Mr D 
provided.
Overall, for the reasons explained, I dont think AIG have declined the claim unfairly as 
based on the information it was provided, it wasnt unreasonable for them to conclude that 
Mr D hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions by taking reasonable care of his 
phone.
Claims handling
AIG have accepted their service fell short as they gave Mr D incorrect information and 
shouldve managed his expectations regarding the outcome of his claim. Had they done so 
Mr D wouldnt have felt the need to call AIG several times. They apologised paid Mr D £70 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I understand this wouldve been distressing, and he was inconvenienced by having to call 
repeatedly. However, apart from this Im not aware of any specific impact this had on Mr D or 
any financial loss involved in making those calls. As such, I think £70 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman