DRN-1125875
 
The complaint
Mrs S says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit card repayments.
What happened
Mrs S applied for a credit card over the internet in 2001. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit card payments. The policy cost £0.59 per £100 of the balance on 
Mrs Ss credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs S was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Mrs S also took out a PPI policy on another credit card in 2005 but no premiums were ever 
charged before the credit card account was closed.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint about the 2001 policy should be upheld 
because she thought Mrs S wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy and 
thought it wouldve provided a useful benefit. Furthermore, because no premiums were 
charged on the 2005 policy she didnt think Canada Square needed to pay anything back. 
Mrs S disagrees. She says she wasnt told PPI was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss complaint.
In regards to the 2005 policy Im in agreement with our adjudicator that because there is no 
evidence that PPI premiums were charged on the 2005 policy there has been no loss and so 
Canada Square doesnt need to pay anything back.
In regard to the 2001 policy Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied for online when Mrs S applied for a credit card. Canada Square have 
given us a copy of the screen shots of the type of application form Mrs S wouldve seen and 
completed when she applied for her credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what it protects against. 
Directly under this it gives the option to either select:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments; or 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayments 
 
Canada Square say Mrs S wouldnt have been able to continue with the application without 
selecting one of these options. I think because Mrs S had PPI its likely she selected to take 
PPI. If Mrs S didnt want to take out PPI she couldve selected not to take the cover. So I 
think its likely Mrs S understood she had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose to take it 
because she wanted the cover.
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont think Canada Square advised Mrs S 
to take PPI. What this means is that Canada Square didnt recommend PPI to Mrs S, they 
just gave her information about PPI and it was up to her to decide if the cover was suitable. 
This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
Canada Square say that enough information wouldve been given to allow Mrs S to make an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. I can see the cost of the policy is 
shown on the application form. But I cant say whether all the proper information needed was 
given. That being said even if Canada Square did give all the information Mrs S needed to 
make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy 
because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Mrs S says she was entitled to sick pay and her family wouldve helped make her 
repayments if she couldnt work. But there is no guarantee her family could help and 
the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. So 
I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put her off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs S and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs S on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman