DRN-2423748
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was irresponsible 
when it agreed car finance for him on 23 June 2015.
Mr C has brought his complaint to this Service through a representative but, for 
simplicity, I will refer to him throughout.
What happened
SMF agreed a hire-purchase agreement for Mr C, through an intermediary, in order for 
him to acquire a car. Under the hire-purchase agreement SMF would own the car unless 
Mr C opted to purchase it at the end of the agreement. In the meantime, until the finance 
was repaid, Mr C was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
The cash price of the car was £7,820 and Mr C paid a deposit of £200. He borrowed the 
balance of £7,620 which, plus £8,627 interest and charges, came to £16,247. This was to 
be repaid by an initial instalment of £250, followed by 59 instalments of £263 and then a 
final instalment of £458. The credit agreement was for a total of £16,447  the deposit of 
£200 plus £16,247. (Ive rounded all figures to the nearest pound for simplicity.)
Mr C says that he needed to buy a car for work and family purposes but that the 
agreement was never fully explained to him and he struggled to meet his repayments. 
Mr C says the correct checks were not carried out before the credit was agreed. He also 
complains about the actions of SMF after he told it he was in financial difficulty in early 
2019.
Mr C says he was never really in a position to be able to make his repayments but that 
he managed to do so for a time. It seems Mr C started having difficulty sustaining his 
repayments during 2017 and by the time he spoke to SMF about it in early 2019 hed 
been charged over ten unpaid direct debit fees along with other collection fees.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and found that SMF was 
irresponsible when it agreed credit for him. They recommended that SMF should refund 
any payments Mr C made above the purchase or cash price of the car, plus 
compensatory interest, and that he should keep the car.
SMF disagreed with this recommendation and said that its affordability checks didnt 
suggest that Mr C would have problems meeting his repayments. It pointed out that 
Mr C had managed to do so, with an occasional late payment, for almost two years 
before his circumstances changed. 
The complaint then came to me, as an ombudsman, to resolve. I issued my provisional 
decision on 5 November 2020 explaining my provisional findings and why I thought 
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr C accepted my provisional decision but I have 
not had a response from SMF, beyond acknowledging receipt and asking for more time 
to respond. SMF didnt explain why it could not respond within the month. This final 
decision on the matter has been issued a week after that deadline.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. 
Neither party has provided any further comment or new information for me to consider and, 
altogether, Ive found no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I am upholding 
Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for SMF and I hope the 
below explanation makes it clear why I have come to this final conclusion.
As Id set out in my provisional decision, Mr Cs finance was agreed when the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA) was the regulator for consumer credit. The FCAs rules and 
guidance obliged SMF to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC  the specialist source book for consumer credit-related activities) 
this meant that SMF needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not Mr C could afford to meet the hire- purchase payments in a sustainable 
manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  
a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability 
to repay the credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without 
the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of 
normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 
5.3.1G - 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading  OFT  was the previous regulator and it produced a 
document entitled Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its 
consumer credit handbook. CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an 
appropriate assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. 
The FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of 
credit being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the 
borrowers financial situation, amongst other factors.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the borrower. In other words the assessment needs to 
be borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its 
money, but of the risk to the borrower of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the 
sustainability of the arrangement for the borrower.
CONC 5.3.1G  4(b) stated that:
It is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed 
checks
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to a given finance amount from a lower level of 
income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of 
the credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make 
payments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered 
the following questions:
- did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs credit application to satisfy itself that he would be able to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- ultimately, did SMF make a fair lending decision?
- did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example, how 
did it treat Mr C when he had difficulty meeting his hire-purchase 
repayments?
Did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
SMF says that it asked Mr C about his monthly income when he applied for credit, and 
he declared it as £1,750. SMF says it used information from a credit reference agency to 
investigate this figure and found it to be lower, at £1,600. It also checked Mr Cs income 
figure on his bank statement which showed a weekly figure of about £437 and has 
provided a copy of the statement which covers transactions from the 10th to 12th of June 
2015. SMF says it used the lower figure of £1,600 in its affordability assessment.
SMF says that it estimated Mr Cs monthly outgoings as a percentage of his income, 
which came to just over £1,100. The customer notes provided by SMF state that a credit 
check revealed some small defaults and that Mr C had a credit card in arrears. SMF 
says it understood he was repaying about £50 towards his existing debts each month 
and, altogether, Mr C was left with about £450 to meet his monthly hire-purchase 
payments of £263.
It would seem, on the face of it, that Mr C had enough disposable income to meet his repayments each month. However, the repayments would take up over 15% of Mr Cs 
(estimated) income each month for five years, a considerable period. And it seems Mr C 
was having problems meeting his existing debts. So I think SMF ought to looked into his 
outgoings in more detail in order to reasonably assess whether or not he would be able to 
meet his repayments sustainably over the full term of the agreement. And, bearing in mind 
CONC 5.3.1G-4b, I think it ought to have verified these. I cant see that SMF did this, and 
so, on this occasion, I dont think the checks it carried out were proportionate.
What would a reasonable and proportionate check have shown? And did SMF make a 
fair lending decision?
Mr C has explained his financial and personal circumstances at the time and provided 
some bank statements. To be clear, Im not suggesting that SMF ought to have looked at 
Mr Cs bank statements (though I understand it did so to check his income) but I think 
that these, along with Mr Cs testimony, are a reasonable way of investigating what SMF 
was likely to have seen of Mr Cs circumstances, had it carried out a proportionate check.
Mr C says that he needed a car for family reasons and explained that his relationship 
had broken down and he would need to be able to drive to see his children. He also 
explained that he paid, on average, £200 a month in child maintenance to his ex-
partner. Mr C provided figures for his living costs at the time of the agreement inception 
and Ive summarised these below. The estimated amount (excluding child 
maintenance) comes to £1,230, slightly higher than SMFs estimate.
Rent £550
Council tax £130
Utilities £120
Car tax £15
Car insurance £35
Fuel £80
Food £160
Clothing & PPE £50 (needed for work )
Phone and internet £70 (needed for work)
Accountancy £19
I can see from Mr Cs bank statements that his costs at the time were in fact higher than 
he remembers, for example he spent about £350 in food shops and establishments in
April 2015 and over £450 in May. I can see a direct debit of £225 to a high interest 
credit card each month and a payment of over £40 to a national debt collector in May. 
Ive noted that Mr C had unpaid direct debits each month and incurred bank charges for 
these.
Mr C says he paid his rent, council tax and child maintenance in cash  an amount of 
£880. I dont have any evidence about these payments beyond what Mr C has said. Ive 
noted that he made significantly high cash withdrawals, for example over £1,600 in April 
and £1,200 in May so I consider that what hes said about these payments to be plausible.
Having thought about everything carefully, I think its likely that SMF would have learnt 
that Mr Cs regular spending was higher than it had estimated and that he was 
experiencing difficulty meeting his existing debts, had it looked into his spending in 
greater depth. I think, on balance, SMF would have concluded that Mr C wasnt likely to 
be able to meet his repayments for further credit in a sustainable manner and would not 
have agreed to lend to him on this occasion. And so I find that it was irresponsible to 
have done so.SMF said that Mr C managed to meet his repayments for about two years with only a 
couple of late payments, so the finance cant have been unaffordable for him in that time. 
I can see from the account records that Mr Cs direct debit wasnt honoured several times 
throughout the agreement term and that he incurred fees in June 2016, then on six 
occasions in 2017, four in 2018 and from February 2019 onwards. The customer notes 
show that Mr C called to change the direct debit date on many occasions and at least six 
times before advising SMF of a change of address and job in March 2017.
SMF says that this change in Mr Cs circumstances was the reason behind him having 
difficulty meeting his repayments and that he did not have such difficulty at the point of 
sale. SMF also said that it specialised in providing finance for customers who may have 
been through a period of financial detriment and found it difficult to finance a vehicle 
through other mainstream lenders.
I want to reassure SMF that I have taken these points into consideration in coming to my 
decision. I have also borne in mind that, as set out in CONC, lenders ought to consider 
more than just assessing a borrowers ability to repay credit when carrying out a 
creditworthiness assessment. I cant agree that in this case successfully repaying credit 
automatically means that Mr C managed to repay it without difficulty. As Ive explained 
above, I think Mr Cs financial difficulties were present from the start of the agreement and 
SMF was likely to have uncovered this through proportionate checks.
Did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr C says that SMF didnt treat him fairly when he missed repayments. As mentioned 
above, Mr C struggled to meet his repayments on many occasions, either moving or 
missing his direct debit dates. It seems this came to a head in 2019 resulting in Mr C 
making a complaint that March. He says that he felt bullied and harassed through 
countless calls from SMF and that the lender contacted his mother at one point to try to 
reach him. Mr C also says that the stress of this matter has seriously impacted on his 
mental health.
I have limited information about the contact between Mr C and SMF. What I can see is that 
SMF said in its final response:  We recognise that there were attempts to contact a third 
party which we believed to be your place of employment. We apologise for this oversight 
and confirm that this number has been removed from our records. Ive also noted that 
SMF asked Mr C to complete an income and expenditure form in early 2019 so it could 
take appropriate action, and it reminded him of his option to voluntarily terminate the 
finance agreement or surrender his vehicle.
I want to reassure Mr C that I believe him when he says that he has not had an easy time 
of it and Im sorry to hear of his difficulties. I am not concluding that SMF got everything 
right in its dealings with him after the agreement was put in place. However, I dont have 
enough information to be able to say that its actions, or lack of appropriate action, caused 
distress or inconvenience to him to the extent that he should be paid compensation.
Putting things right
As I think the credit was irresponsibly agreed, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed. In other words, he isnt liable for any interest, charges or fees 
associated with the agreement. To be clear, this includes any unpaid direct debit fees or 
any charges associated with debt recovery.
Wed expect Mr C to repay the capital he borrowed as hes had the use of these funds or, in this case, the use of a car in exchange for the funds. This has the effect of reducing the 
amount Mr C owes under the agreement to the capital borrowed, in other words £7,820 
being the cash price of the car, should the agreement have run its course.
The agreement is ongoing and from the information SMF provided, it seems Mr Cs 
account is in arrears. However, I can see from the latest account statement dated 20 
November 2019 that the balance on the account is £4,777 and that Mr C had repaid over 
£11,000 since the agreement started. I am not aware that he has paid anything since but, 
by my calculation, Mr C has already repaid the cash price of the car. Having considered all 
the available information, in this case I think its fair that the car remains with Mr C and 
ownership of the car transfers to him.
In order to put things right for him, SMF ought to :
a) End the agreement at no further cost to Mr C; and
b) Treat all payments, including the deposit and upfront fees, Mr C made as 
payments towards the cash price of the car; and
c) Refund any payments Mr C has made above the cash price along with 8% per 
annum simple interest* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement to reflect the fact that he should not have been deprived of these 
funds; and
d) Remove all adverse information about the agreement from Mr Cs credit file, 
once settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires SMF to take off tax from this interest. SMF must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
and require it to put things right for him as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman