DRN-3041175
The complaint
Mr L complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, irresponsibly granted him 
a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In October 2015, Mr L acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Moneyway. Mr L was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £473.28, with a final 
optional payment of £10 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £29,306.80.
Mr L says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneyway didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment during which they verified Mr Ls income by reviewing his 
wage slips and carrying out a credit check. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought Moneyway didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr L didnt agree and said his payments for fuel for heating hadnt been on his bank 
statement and should be considered and he also thought that the disposable income his 
statements demonstrated wasnt enough to cover emergency expenditure such as new tyres 
or servicing. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Moneyway completed showed four recent defaults and two loans taken out 
since the last default was registered. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr L was likely 
to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneyway to have 
dug a little deeper to understand Mr Ls financial circumstances before lending.
I cant be certain what Mr L would have told Moneyway had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneyway needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ls 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. The bank statements 
provided are joint ones and as all the major expenses appear to be coming out of that 
account and Mr Ls income is being paid into it, I think its reasonable to assume these are 
the statements he would have provided to Moneyway if asked.
Mr L has explained that his partner paid for food and living expenses and he was 
responsible for all monthly bills. 
When considering these bills and the loans and debt collection activity on the statements I 
think its fair to say that Mr Ls expenditure was about £1,044 and his income £1,736.74. 
That left him with a disposable income of about £693 per month. 
I think that suggests the agreement was affordable for Mr L even after taking into account 
any additional heating costs that may have been being paid, his new car loan and 
emergency expenditure. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneyway acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman