DRN-4174266
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Phoenix Life Limited, referred to as 
Phoenix Life or the business. 
What happened
According to the investigators summary, Mr S received a statement from Phoenix Life 
containing a number of errors which he queried. Mr S explained that he needed an accurate 
tax certificate for tax planning purposes, so it was important for him to have all the correct 
information. 
Phoenix Life responded with the relevant information but did so only days before the 
deadline. Mr S didnt want to leave matters until the last minute and said this caused him 
distress and inconvenience. 
Phoenix Life also confirmed that it doesnt send tax certificates for this type of account/policy 
 Mr S disagreed and thought it wouldve made sense for it to do so. He explained that 
although he was able to make the correct calculations, others might not have been able to 
do so without the tax certificate.  
Overall, Mr S was unhappy with the service provided. He spent a lot of time chasing 
information and didnt like the way he was treated by staff, with one staff member suggesting 
that there was bad blood between him and Phoenix Life. 
Phoenix Life upheld the complaint. In short, it acknowledged that it sent Mr S incorrect 
information and that thered been unnecessary delay. So, to put things right it offered (and 
later paid) Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But unhappy 
with the businesss response Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
As the business upheld the complaint, the key issue to consider is redress and 
whether or not its reasonable in the circumstances. 
The issue with the statements and tax information no doubt caused Mr S stress. 
However, the business has done nothing wrong by not providing a full tax certificate 
in this instance because it wasnt obliged to. 
That said, the incorrect information on the letter/statement wouldve caused Mr S 
some distress and inconvenience. 
Despite the difficulties faced, Mr S was still able to make the correct calculations in 
time, so the mistake didnt impact him completing his tax planning. Despite Mr Ss 
concerns about other customers, in this instance were considering the actions of the 
business against Mr S only. 
In any event, given that distress and inconvenience was caused  by the delay and 
incorrect information  the compensation paid is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Having listened to the relevant call, she cant say that the business treated Mr S 
unfairly or blamed him for anything. Shes unable to say there was any ill intent from 
the business.     
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
Theres no recognition for wasted time. 
The pace at which things were done was so slow. 
oPhoenix deadlock letter was sent on 5 May 2022. 
o£150 compensation sent on 12 September 2022. 
oPhoenix response letter 21 October 2022. 
Insufficient weight was given to the phone operatives unprofessional behavior. He 
felt humiliated and degraded  if the investigator had been in his shoes, she wouldnt 
say he was treated fairly. 
Hell need to keep a hold of the file in case he can carry back provision for future 
pension contributions. 
Despite his complaints theres been no improvement in the service from the 
business. 
The investigator may have mistaken his request for figures, in relation to his request 
for different figures. 
The correspondence dated 29 March 2022  received 1 April 2022  still contained 
errors. It was only after the conversion with the operative in May 2022 that it agreed 
with his figures. Therefore, the investigator has mis-stated the facts upon which it has 
derived its conclusion. 
Overall, Phoenixs correspondence has been opaque over a number of years. It 
seems it can waste his time, delay matters, degrade and humiliate him with impunity. 
And the investigators findings are partial, incomplete, and mistaken.
He may contact the Information Commissioners Office in due course regarding other 
separate matters. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she made the following key points:
Shes sorry that her comment about request for figures wasnt clear. She was 
specifically referring to amounts of compensation Mr S had requested at different 
points as the issues went on:
o22 February 2022  Mr S requested £250 compensation. 
o14 March 2022  Mr S requested £500 compensation. 
o4 April 2022  Mr S requested £750. 
She made clear that she couldnt give an undertaking. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issues for me to consider is redress, 
and whether (or not) its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. On the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, I think the redress paid (in September 
2022) is broadly fair and reasonable. Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr S has about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  Im 
not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
In this instance the business accepts that it made some errors  in terms of delays 
and incorrect information  as a result of which it offered Mr S redress for the distress 
and convenience caused. 
On balance, I think the £150 compensation paid is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Whilst it wasnt pleasant for Mr S to receive the necessary information only days 
before he had to send it off  and he had to chase the business to get this 
information  he was nevertheless furnished with the relevant and correct information 
in time, and he was able to perform the relevant calculations without any adverse 
consequences. 
Notwithstanding the distress and inconvenience caused, Im aware that Mr S wasnt 
prevented from submitting the correct information on time. 
In other words, despite the situation being a little touch and go, and Mr S having to 
chase the business to receive the correct information, he still got the information that 
he needed, and in time, in order to perform the relevant calculations for tax planning 
purposes - thankfully, it didnt interfere with his tax planning. 
Im aware Mr S says that not having a tax certificate is an aggravation. But I cant say 
that this (or the delays) were deliberate and intentional  because it doesnt offer that 
service for this policy, so hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so.
I appreciate Mr S is concerned that he was able to perform the tax calculations but 
others in a similar position might not be, without an actual tax certificate. Be that as it 
may, I cant consider a complaint against the business about how, theoretically, its 
actions might affect customers other than Mr S. 
Despite what Mr S says, Im afraid I dont agree that the adviser didnt deal with him 
reasonably. Having listened to the relevant call, Im satisfied that the complaint 
handler was informative, patient, polite and courteous.   
Regardless of how previous complaints have been deal with, whether or not they 
were upheld, and compensation paid, doesnt mean that this complaint should be 
upheld and/or a greater sum of compensation offered. 
The current complaint is new and separate, and has been dealt with based on its 
individual merits. For the reasons set out above, in this instance, and on balance, I cant say that £150 
compensation paid is unreasonable in the circumstances.      
Overall, and on balance, I think the redress paid by the business is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
That said, I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. I note Mr S believes 
hes due around £750 compensation. Whilst I appreciate his deep frustration and anguish, 
Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr S what he wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman