DRN-1514012
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here 
was brand new.
The relevant legislation allowed Mr B a short term right to reject the car if it was of 
unsatisfactory quality and if he reported the issue within the first 30 days.
Im persuaded the issue with Bluetooth connectivity was reported within 30-days, but Im not 
persuaded that the car was not of a satisfactory quality. I dont think a reasonable person 
would consider a temporary fault with Bluetooth connectivity to warrant rejection of a vehicle 
which otherwise appears to have performed as expected.
I think rejection of the car would be a disproportionate act especially as the fault could, and 
has, been rectified in a short period of time. Whilst I understand that the relevant legislation 
refers to minor defects with goods, having considered that, I still dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to suggest BMWFS should allow Mr B to reject the car for such an issue.
Putting things right
So, I think BMWFS were reasonable when rejecting Mr Bs request to reject the car. But its 
clear he has been inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to report the fault and to progress 
his complaint to this service when compensation wasnt provided. In the circumstances I 
would agree with the investigators suggestion that BMWFS should pay him £100 to 
compensate him for his experience.
Mr B has also had some loss of functionality of the car and Im therefore asking BMWFS to 
pay him a further £100 to compensate him for lack of use.
But I dont think it would be reasonable to ask BMWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused;
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the lack of use hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman