DRN-3473928
The complaint
Mrs M complains about her insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead). Her complaint 
relates to their handling of a claim under her home insurance policy for damage caused by a 
leak from the boiler in her tenanted property, as well as the amount offered by Fairmead to 
settle the claim. 
Fairmead use agents to administer the policy. Reference to Fairmead includes these agents.
What happened
In September 2019 the tenant at Mrs Ms rental property told her the boiler was leaking. Mrs 
M contacted a plumber, who inspected the boiler and advised it would need removing to find 
the source of the leak. The size and location of the boiler meant removing the door and 
doorframe of the cupboard housing the boiler. Mrs M replaced the boiler shortly afterwards.
Mrs M also contacted Fairmead to report the issue and sent photographs of the damage. 
Fairmead asked her to provide a quote for repairing the damage. This took some time, in 
part because of Mrs M being unwell, meaning that a quote (for £4,850) wasnt received by 
Fairmead until December 2019. Fairmead then appointed a surveyor (B), who inspected the 
damage. Bs report concluded the damage wasnt due to the leak, occurring before Mrs M 
took out her policy (June 2019). Based on the report, Fairmead declined Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M challenged the decline and disputed Bs findings. Fairmead sent her the full report 
with a request she provide photographs and other evidence to support her view the damage 
occurred from the leak. Mrs M provided further evidence which Fairmead reviewed and 
decided to cover certain areas they agreed were damaged by the leak. But they maintained 
their position there were areas where the damage wasnt from the leak, so wouldnt be 
covered. From the areas they thought were damaged by the leak, together with Bs estimate 
of the costs of repair, Fairmead made a settlement offer of £2,784 in March 2020.
As Mrs Ms quote was much higher than Bs estimate, Fairmead asked B to validate Mrs Ms 
estimate. Following this validation, Fairmead made a revised settlement offer of £4,780 in 
June 2020. This was based on Mrs Ms estimate (£4,850) plus the cost of trace and access 
(£430) less the policy excess (£500). However, during this period Mrs M had major surgery 
that meant a prolonged period of recuperation. So, she wasnt able to respond to Fairmeads 
revised offer until January 2021. She didnt accept the offer and complained to Fairmead. 
Fairmead rejected the complaint, confirming their revised offer as full and final. They also 
confirmed their view that damage to other areas was unrelated to the boiler leak (and 
predated the start of the policy). Fairmead also said theyd consider an additional amount in 
respect of VAT, if Mrs M could supply a VAT invoice once repairs had been completed.
Mrs M then complained to this service. Her main issue was that Fairmeads offer didnt cover 
all the areas she thought were damaged by the leak, so she wouldnt accept their offer. She 
was also unhappy at the time taken by Fairmead to respond to her complaint (five months) 
and they hadnt been understanding of the difficult circumstances with her health.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Fairmead hadnt acted fairly and needed 
to take further action. He wasnt persuaded that Bs report provided an accurate or complete 
picture of what had happened, so it wasnt reasonable for Fairmead to base a settlement on 
the report. On the specific areas of the property, he didnt think the report was sufficient to 
decline cover for damage to the lounge. He also thought that damp in the kitchen could have 
arose in the period between the leak and Bs inspection, as could warping to the laminate 
flooring. The investigator concluded that a fair outcome would be for an independent 
assessor to consider the damage and for Fairmead to consider the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Fairmead disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said that their position was unchanged from that set out in their 
final response. 
In my findings, I thought Fairmeads revised offer (based on the quote from Mrs Ms builder 
and including any VAT element on production of a VAT invoice) was fair and reasonable. 
However, I didnt think the damage to the kitchen wall was clearly due to the leak. I also 
thought it reasonable for Fairmead to assess any drying and damp treatment that may be 
required as part of the reinstatement work for the areas covered by the quote from Mrs Ms 
builder as part of the settlement of the claim.
Given the length of time from when the incident occurred, I wasnt persuaded that a further 
independent assessment now would be able to determine with any certainty what was the 
result of the leak, as opposed to what has happened since.
On Mrs Ms concerns about the length of time taken by Fairmead to consider her complaint, 
while complaints handling isnt an activity that falls within the remit of this service, as it 
appeared Mrs M didnt make a formal complaint until June 2021 (though there were earlier 
exchanges indicating her disagreement on issues with her claim). As Fairmeads final 
response was sent later in June 2021, I didnt think that unreasonable.
On Mrs Ms concern that Fairmead hadnt been understanding of the difficult circumstances 
with her health, I didnt see anything from Fairmead I thought indicated a lack of 
understanding or discourteous or unprofessional.
  
As I reached different conclusion on the level of compensation to that of our investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to say that I appreciate what Mrs M has told us about her health issues and the 
impact theyve had on her, particularly over the period since the leak and during the handling 
of her claim. I can understand that this has affected her ability to consider matters relating to 
the claim and her dealings with Fairmead. Ive borne this in mind when considering my role, 
which is to decide whether Fairmead has acted fairly towards Mrs M.
The central issue is whether the damage at the property was due to the leak from the boiler 
(as Mrs M maintains) or was due (at least in part) to issues that pre-dated the policy or were 
due to existing issues, such as damp (As Fairmead maintain, based on Bs report). Ive considered carefully both views, together with the available information and evidence. 
Bs report concluded that the damage was either pre-existing (the kitchen and stairwell) or 
wasnt due to the leak (the lounge). The report also noted damage to the boiler cupboard, 
though it wasnt possible to determine what may have been due to the leak and what was 
caused by the trace and access to identify the leak and the subsequent removal of the old 
boiler and its replacement. Based on Bs report, Fairmead initially declined the claim in full. 
However, following challenge from Mrs M, they accepted some damage had been caused by 
the leak (including the lounge flooring, the boiler cupboard walls and first step of the stairs), 
eventually offering £4,780. As this offer includes the quote from Mrs Bs builder (and would 
also include any VAT element on production of a VAT invoice on completion of the work) I 
think thats fair and reasonable. Part of the quote would seem to be for replacement of the 
boiler cupboard doorframe (which the indications are that it was removed to allow removal of 
the old boiler). While this is arguably not directly damage caused by the leak, as Fairmead 
have included it in their offer, I think thats reasonable. 
Having offered a settlement that included the quote from Mrs Ms builder, then the key issue 
for me to consider is whether its fair and reasonable or (as Mrs M maintains) it doesnt 
include the cost of repairs to other areas she says were damaged by the leak (principally the 
kitchen wall) or items not included in the quote. Bs report concluded that there was damage 
to the wall from the works (which Ive taken to mean the works to remove the old boiler and 
replace it). The report also concluded that the damage was pre-existing over a period and 
that damp was present (B was told that a previous tenant had complained about it). Ive 
thought about this carefully, but on balance Im not persuaded that the damage to the 
kitchen wall was clearly due to the leak. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs M, so Ill 
explain why Ive come to this view.
As well as the comment in Bs report about the damage being from the works (to replace 
the boiler) I dont think the location of that part of the kitchen wall under the stairs is such that 
it would have been likely to have been affected by the leak from the boiler. Whereas the part 
of the lounge floor affected was immediately adjacent to the boiler cupboard. Ive also 
considered the fact that the quote from Mrs Ms builder covered the lounge floor, boiler 
cupboard walls and the first stair. Which suggests those were the areas the builder thought 
directly affected by the leak. The quote didnt include the kitchen wall, suggesting it wasnt 
something directly affected by the leak. Ive also considered that when Mrs M challenged the 
initial decline of her claim, the evidence is that she disputed the issue of damage in the 
lounge (not the kitchen).
Having concluded that Fairmead acted reasonably in making a settlement offer based on 
Mrs Ms builders quote (for the affected areas) but that the damage to the kitchen wall 
wasnt likely to have been directly caused by the leak, Ive also considered Mrs Ms other 
points about what wasnt covered in the quote. She says that decoration, plumbing, electrics 
and damp treatment arent included. I can see that Fairmeads offer includes the cost of 
trace and access for the leak, which is reasonable. 
Whats not clear is whether repair of the damage from the leak would involve electrics or 
decoration (that wasnt included in the quote). On damp treatment, I can see that Bs report 
recommended the use of drying equipment (should the claim be accepted) so I think it would 
be reasonable for Fairmead to assess any drying and damp treatment that may be required 
as part of the reinstatement work for the areas covered by the quote from Mrs Ms builder as 
part of the settlement of the claim.
Ive also considered the recommendation from our investigator that an independent assessor 
should evaluate the damage from the leak and that Fairmead should consider the claim 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. However, as the leak occurred in 
September 2019 and my understanding is that there hasnt been any mitigation since that time, Im not persuaded that any assessment now would be able to determine with any 
certainty what was the result of the leak, as opposed to what has happened since.
  
When Mrs M made her complaint to this service, she also raised concerns about the length 
of time taken by Fairmead to consider her complaint (which she said was five months). While 
complaints handling isnt an activity that falls within the remit of this service (unless directly 
linked to those aspects of a complaint that do fall within our remit) Ive considered what Mrs 
M has said. From the case notes provided by Fairmead, including email correspondence 
between them and Mrs M, I cant see Mrs M making a formal complaint until her email of 9 
June 2021 (though there are exchanges before that date indicating her disagreement on 
issues to do with her claim). As Fairmeads final response was sent on 16 June 2021, I dont 
think thats an unreasonable timeframe.
On Mrs Ms concern that Fairmead hadnt been understanding of the difficult circumstances 
with her health. I havent been provided with any call recordings between Mrs M and 
Fairmead, so Im not able to conclude whether Fairmead hadnt been understanding of Mrs 
Ms circumstances. Looking through the email correspondence, while there are gaps when 
Mrs M has been unwell (and refers to the circumstances) Ive not seen anything from 
Fairmead I think indicates a lack of understanding or that I consider discourteous or 
unprofessional. 
 
Taking all these points together, then Ive concluded Fairmead acted fairly and reasonably in 
making a settlement offer based on the quote provided by Mrs Ms builder for those areas 
affected by the leak. Im also not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that the damage 
in other areas was clearly the result of the leak. However, I do think it would be reasonable 
for Fairmead to assess any drying and damp treatment that may be required as part of the 
reinstatement work for the areas covered by the quote from Mrs Ms builder as part of the 
settlement of the claim. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in 
part. I intend to require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
assess any drying and damp treatment that may be required as part of the 
reinstatement work for the areas covered by the quote from Mrs Ms builder as 
part of the settlement of the claim.
Fairmead responded to accept my provisional decision, although they raised a concern that 
 depending on what was meant by damp treatment  that might not be covered under the 
policy as it could be considered betterment (that is, it would be putting Mrs M in a better 
position than before the incident). 
Mrs M responded to the provisional decision to make several points. Firstly, that an electrical 
survey was carried out on her property in June 2019 that concluded it was in good order. 
Secondly, to provide examples of what she thought was Fairmeads attitude and lack of 
consideration towards her and her health issues. Thirdly, the quote from her builder didnt 
include the damage to the kitchen walls because when the builder visited, they didnt realise 
the kitchen walls had been damaged by the leak (and the kitchen walls were adjacent to the 
boiler cupboard). Fourthly, that with increasing costs across the building sector, the quote 
from her builder needed to be updated.
Mrs M also raised points of detail about specific paragraphs and references in my provisional 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead have acted fairly towards Mrs M.
Id first want to reassure Mrs M that Ive considered all her responses and additional 
evidence and information (including documents, reports and photographs). Ive also 
considered her points of detail on my provisional decision. I havent responded to each of 
these points of detail, but where appropriate Ive reflected them in what Ive decided. 
Taking each of Mrs Ms substantive points in turn, on the first point, Mrs M has provided a 
copy of a domestic electrical installation condition report (dated June 2019). The report sets 
out its purpose is to confirm (as far as reasonably practicable) whether the electrical 
installation is in a satisfactory condition for continued service. And that the report should 
identify any damage, deterioration, defects and/or conditions which may give rise to danger. 
As such, the reports focus is on one aspect of the propertys condition (the electrical 
installation) rather than its condition as a whole, or that of other aspects of the property. But 
what it doesnt do is provide evidence about the substantive issues of Mrs Ms complaint, 
which are about the damage caused by the leak and whether the settlement offer from 
Fairmead is fair and reasonable.
On the second point, I appreciate Mrs Ms views about the way she feels Fairmead have 
treated her, particularly given the difficult circumstances shes faced with her health. I 
understand her view, but taking both the specific examples shes provided along with the 
other evidence and information (such as that from Fairmeads case notes) I dont think it 
changes my conclusion about how Fairmead have acted towards her.
On the third issue, Mrs M says the quote from her builder didnt include the damage to the 
kitchen walls because when the builder visited, they didnt realise the kitchen walls had been 
damaged by the leak. Ive thought about this carefully. From what Mrs M has previously said, 
there was some delay in her being able to find a builder to visit and produce a quote. That 
being the case, if the visit was some time after the leak, its unclear why  if the kitchen walls 
were damaged by the leak, given their proximity to the boilers location  the damage 
wouldnt have been apparent to the builder. Particularly given the damage observed (and 
included in the quote) to other areas close by the boiler cupboard. So, Im not persuaded this 
supports the view that any damage to the kitchen walls can reasonably be held to have been 
caused by the leak. So, I havent changed my view on this point.
On the fourth point, I recognise Mrs Ms point about inflation being higher than usual and the 
cost of some commodities has increased sharply. As a result, there has been an increase in 
costs of rebuild materials. As well as building materials, other costs have also increased 
including labour costs. Given this, as well as the time thats elapsed since the quote provided 
by Mrs Ms builder (which was the basis of Fairmeads cash offer) I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for the quote to be updated to reflect current prices (for the same scope of work 
as the original quote).
On Fairmeads point about the nature of damp treatment might not be covered under the 
policy as it could be considered betterment, as a principle when settling claims wed expect 
an insurer to put a consumer in the same position they were in before the incident occurred.  
In the circumstances of this case, I think that means reinstating those areas of Mrs Ms 
property as they were before the leak. Id expect the quote from Mrs Ms builder to cover the 
work necessary to do that, including any work to ensure the affected areas were in a position 
for the reinstatement work to be carried out  including any work on drying or damp 
treatment. I think it would be for Fairmead to consider the scope of the work contained in the quote and assess it in line with the policy terms and conditions (including any aspect they 
think could be considered betterment).    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
settle Mrs Ms claim through a cash settlement based on an updated quote from 
Mrs Ms builder to reflect current prices (for the same scope of work as the 
original quote). 
assess any drying and damp treatment that may be required as part of the 
reinstatement work for the areas covered by the quote from Mrs Ms builder as 
part of the settlement of the claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman