DRN-3482115
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
For context, Ive set out the disputed transactions Im considering within this case  all made 
from Mr Ts NatWest debit card. As our investigator has explained, I wont be considering the 
payments Mr T made to the scam from other accounts, whether held with NatWest or with 
other firms. 
 
Date Amount
13 August 2015 £170
13 August 2015 £500
14 October 2015 £5,000
28 October 2015 £2,000
28 October 2015 £2,000
23 February 2016 £1,000
23 February 2016 £1,000
23 February 2016 £500
4 March 2016 £1,000
8 March 2016 £2,500
Total £15,670
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, NatWest is 
expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in 
dispute that Mr T was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the 
payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for them.
There are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment. 
Ive considered whether NatWest ought to have realised Mr T was at risk from fraud 
 such as if the payments were uncharacteristically large or otherwise suspicious, 
given how he generally used his account. If NatWest failed to intervene appropriate 
when it should have done, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to 
hold it liable.
In the months leading up to the start of the scam, Mr T had made several similar-size 
payments to another, seemingly legitimate, investment firm. In this context, I dont 
think the payments to the scam merchant would reasonably have seemed out of 
character to NatWest. Nor was there public information about the merchant, which I 
would have expected NatWest to have been aware of at the time, to alert it that the 
merchant was running a scam. For example, the UK financial regulator hadnt issued 
any warnings about them. In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable that 
NatWest didnt detect a fraud risk  so simply processed the payments in line with 
Mr Ts instructions.
As well as considering whether NatWest ought to have prevented Mr Ts loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. He says he reported the 
fraud and raised a chargeback claim in July 2016 and NatWest didnt help. NatWest 
says it has no record of receiving a dispute about these payments at that time. 
Whereas it does have records of various other payment disputes Mr T has raised 
since then. It has checked its records going back to February 2015. Overall, Im not 
persuaded theres enough evidence to show that NatWest ought to have considered 
the dispute sooner. 
In any event, Im not persuaded Mr T would have been able to raise a successful 
chargeback claim. The requirements for these are set by the applicable card-scheme 
provider, not the bank. At the time, neither Visa nor Mastercard covered claims 
relating to investment withdrawals. And while Visa did cover some other investment 
claims, Mr T would have needed written evidence of the merchant guaranteeing an 
amount of profit or return he was due to receive. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr T 
had this evidence. And the time limit for such a claim was 120 days from the 
transaction processing date. So even if Mr T contacted NatWest in July 2016, given 
the payment dates, he would have been too late to claim for most, or all, of the 
transactions. So Im satisfied NatWest didnt miss an opportunity to recover the loss.  
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T. But Im not persuaded NatWest is at 
fault for failing to stop, or recover, his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman