DRN-2973838
The complaint
Company R complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) declined its claim for theft 
under its buildings insurance policy. Mr R brings this complaint on behalf of R, which is the 
policyholder. He employed the services of a Loss Assessor to handle matters for him. For 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr R throughout my decision, and reference to his actions, including 
those of his representatives, are taken to be on behalf of Company R.
What happened
Mr R had buildings insurance cover with AmTrust for a property he let. The property was 
divided into separate self-contained flats over several floors. The property was damaged by 
fire and the tenants had to move out. AmTrust accepted his claim under the policy and Mr 
Rs Loss Assessor handled matters on his behalf.
While AmTrust was dealing with the fire claim and before reinstatement work had started, 
pipework and fixed household appliances were stolen from the property. Mr R made a 
further claim under his policy but AmTrust declined it, citing the unoccupancy exclusion.
Mr R complained to AmTrust because it knew his property was unoccupied due to the fire 
claim, and it remained so because of claim delays. AmTrust said the reason for the 
unoccupancy was irrelevant but it offered Mr R £100 compensation in recognition of the 
delay looking into his claim.
Our investigator didnt think AmTrust had done anything wrong. While there were some 
delays, which AmTrust acknowledged, he didnt think the property wouldve been occupied 
again anyway at the time of theft. Therefore, our investigator didnt think AmTrust had 
unfairly declined the theft claim. 
Mr R didnt agree because the property was only unoccupied due to an insured peril (the 
fire), so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
My role is to decide whether AmTrust declined Mr Rs claim in line with the policy and, if so, 
whether it was fair to do so in the circumstances. Our rules dont require me to comment on 
every piece of evidence so, instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The issue, here, is that Mr R doesnt think AmTrust shouldve relied on the unoccupancy 
exclusion to decline his claim.
I can see that, under Section 1  Property Damage, the policy provides cover for:
k. Theft or attempted theft
EXCLUDING (AmTrusts emphasis) any loss or damage:
1. Caused by theft or attempted theft which does not involve forcible and violent entry into 
or exit from the buildings
3. Caused by theft or attempted theft while the buildings are unoccupied
AmTrust declined Mr Rs claim for theft, relying on the policy exclusion for unoccupied 
properties, along with a specific endorsement in Mr Rs policy schedule as follows:
Endorsements
011b. Unoccupied Properties (becoming vacant during the policy period)
It is hereby noted that General Policy Conditions - item 3 - unoccupied properties is 
amended to read the following:
a. If the Buildings become Unoccupied during the Period of Insurance Any cover during 
this Unoccupied period will be subject to compliance of the following:
(AmTrust then lists 12 requirements setting out how the property should be secured and 
records which should be kept of regular inspections.)
Once the Property is considered to be Unoccupied (See Change of Definition 
Unoccupied*) cover under this policy excludes the following
Damage arising from Insured Perils h, i, j, k and n
*080. Change of Definition - Unoccupied
It is hereby noted that the Definition of Unoccupied is replaced to read:
Any Building or part of Building or Flat which is empty, disused, Unoccupied, unfurnished, 
untenanted by You or Your tenants and has been so for a period of 60 days or more.
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the policy are clear  cover is not provided 
under circumstances where Mr Rs property is unoccupied and insured peril k (theft), takes 
place. Therefore, Im satisfied that AmTrust declined Mr Rs claim in line with the policy.
Ive gone on to think about whether it was fair to decline the claim in the circumstances. I can 
understand why Mr R has concerns about this because the property was only unoccupied 
due to the insured peril of fire. He couldnt control that situation. However, neither could 
AmTrust and I cant see anything in the policy which provides for an exception to the 
endorsement dependent on the reason why the property was unoccupied in the first place. 
So I agree that Mr R doesnt have a claim here.
The final point Ive considered is whether AmTrust caused any avoidable delays in handling 
Mr Rs claims which otherwise wouldve enabled him to let the property again. While it 
acknowledged some delays in the way it handled Mr Rs claim for the fire damage, and it has 
offered £100 in recognition of that, I cant say that those delays caused the property to be 
unoccupied for more than 60 days. Necessary reports, such as those for asbestos 
containing materials, ordinarily take time before reinstatement can start, and may even result 
in further delays. But, even if that werent the case, the Loss Adjuster said the repairs from 
the fire would take around four months to complete. That wouldve taken the repairs beyond 
the 60-day mark. The damage from the fire was extensive, so I think its reasonable to 
accept that, regardless of any delays, the property would unlikely have been fit for tenants 
within 60 days from the fire. So, I dont think its fair to say AmTrust caused avoidable delays 
which had an impact on Mr Rs circumstances overall. AmTrust offered £100 for the 
relatively small avoidable delays, but as theres no evidence to show those delays had a 
significant impact on Mr R or his company, I see no reason to ask it to increase its offer.Overall, Im satisfied that AmTrust declined Mr Rs theft claim on behalf of company R in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and, on balance, it was fair in the circumstances. 
Im not asking AmTrust to settle the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman