DRN-2683677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim made 
on their mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs policy started in 2003 and helped protect their monthly mortgage payments  
and provided an additional payment to help with some of their other outgoings  if Mr H 
became unable to work due to disablement. 
Mr H experienced health problems in 2019 and tried to claim on the policy. He was sent a 
claim form, which he completed and returned, but was then told the cover ended when 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage ended. They were offered a refund of the premiums theyd paid in 
error since the mortgage had ended earlier in 2019. 
Unhappy that their claim had been turned down, Mr and Mrs H complained to us. Our 
adjudicator assessed the complaint and ultimately recommended that it not be upheld. They 
considered Aviva had been entitled to end the policy when it had, which meant the claim 
wasnt payable. 
Because Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive not considered the sale of the policy as part of this complaint. Thats because 
the policy was sold by Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage lender rather than Aviva. Instead, in this 
complaint Ive focussed on the actions of Aviva as the insurer responsible for the refusal of 
Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
No insurance policy will cover every event that might arise or provide cover indefinitely. The 
terms and conditions of the policy will set out the scope of the cover, what is and isnt 
covered and when the cover will end. In this case, I note the policy terms when the policy 
was sold explained the insurance would end as soon as, among other things, the date you 
no longer have a mortgage agreement. 
Mortgage agreement was defined by the policy terms as Your loan agreement secured by 
a mortgage. 
The most recent policy terms said the policy ended when, among other things, your 
mortgage agreement is repaid.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage ended before Mr Hs claim arose. So, 
according to the applicable policy terms, the policy was no longer in force at the time of the 
claim and no benefits were payable.  
However, Mr and Mrs H argue Aviva shouldnt be allowed to terminate the policy on the 
basis that it wasnt connected to their mortgage  something referred to by their mortgage 
lender. Mr and Mrs H say it was in place to protect other outgoings too and so should 
continue beyond the mortgage itself.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs H have said. But I remain of the view that 
Avivas applied the policy terms fairly in the circumstances. Although Mr and Mrs H didnt 
buy the policy until several years after the start of their mortgage, I believe it was clearly 
intended to primarily cover their monthly repayments. While the mortgage lender said the 
policy wasnt linked to a mortgage, the policy terms confirm a mortgage was necessary for 
the cover to remain in place. 
I gather the policys monthly benefit was higher than Mr and Mrs Hs monthly mortgage 
payments, but I dont find that unusual. People often choose to pay for extra mortgage cover 
to help with other bills and so on in the event theyre unable to work. 
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that it was fair for Aviva to end Mr and 
Mrs Hs policy when it did and to decline their subsequent claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman