DRN-3137635
The complaint
Mr E complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG), regarding safety issues with his 
boiler, under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr E had a boiler that was around 25 years old, that hadnt been installed by BG. He also 
held a home emergency policy with BG since 2006. Under the policy, it provided cover for an 
annual service of his boiler. 
Mr E decided to use BG to supply and install a new boiler. During a pre-installation meeting, 
it advised Mr E that the existing flue wasnt to current regulations and would have to be 
relocated from its position, for the new boiler to be installed.
Mr E said that he was also told by an independent engineer that the flue needed to be 
moved as the position of it could cause incomplete combustion, so was unsafe. 
Mr E was unhappy to have found this out as he said that BG should have warned him that 
the flue was illegally installed and therefore unsafe. Mr E said that this shouldve been raised 
during the annual service visits and BG had compromised his familys safety as a result. 
Mr E changed his boiler at a cost of £3,600 and complained to BG about the safety 
concerns. 
There was a delay in BG responding to Mr Es complaint and he referred his complaint to our 
service. Ultimately, BG in its final response explained that the existing flue was not current 
regulations therefore it had to be moved upon the installation of the new boiler. This didnt 
mean that the original installation was completed incorrectly. It was completed in line with 
regulations at the time of installation and the annual service visits that took place, were 
completed on this basis.
It confirmed that it didnt fail to check his boiler or flue and that there was no danger or
risk posed by the installation of Mr Es old boiler and flue. It advised that the issue was that a 
new boiler could not be installed to the existing flue. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that she considered the impact on Mr E and that it was only until recently that he 
had found out about the flue. And as the annual service visits didnt highlight any safety 
concerns, it wasnt fair or reasonable for BG to pay compensation. 
BG accepted the view. Mr E did not. He maintained that BG hadnt answered the following 
question: what were the changes to the regulations regarding the flue and when did those 
changes happen? He relied on his old boilers manual and photos that showed that the flue 
had always been in the incorrect position, which shouldve been found during the annual 
service. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr E will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
The main issue with this complaint is whether the flue in its previous position, was unsafe.  
Mr E also questioned when the regulations changed regarding his previous flue and what 
were those regulations.  
Mr E had a home emergency policy that covered his boiler, central heating system, drains, 
plumbing and electrics. Mr E decided to buy a new boiler at a cost of £3,600 from BG. 
During a pre-installation visit, BG advised Mr E that the position of his flue was not up to 
current gas regulations standard and would need to be re-positioned. 
Mr E believes that he was unsafe for several years because of BGs negligence. In that, he 
felt that it had failed to advise him that the flue was illegally installed and therefore unsafe, 
during the previous annual services that his boiler had had since 2006. Mr E was asked to 
provide expert evidence from an independent engineer who could confirm this. 
No written expert evidence was provided, but Mr E said that he had an informal chat with an 
engineer who told him that the flue was unsafe. 
BG was asked about the safety of the flue and why it hadnt been pointed out to Mr E before 
the pre-installation visit. It said that the boiler had been installed around 25 years ago and 
BG hadnt installed it. It said that at the time of installation, the flue was likely to have 
complied with the regulations at the time. 
It further confirmed that during annual service visits and in particularly the emission tests 
carried out, there was no cause for concern regarding safety. BG also advised that as the 
flue, was not current regulations it had to be moved upon the installation of the new boiler.  
It explained that this didnt mean that the original installation was completed incorrectly, as it 
was completed in line with regulations at the time of installation. It also provided evidence 
that further explained the position of a Not to Current Standards (NCS) installation and 
guidance that gas safety engineers adhere to:
NCS situations were removed to reflect the fact that an NCS is, by its very nature, NOT 
unsafe  and therefore has no place in an Unsafe Situations Procedure. The installation may 
not be correct, or not in accordance with the standards, but it is not unsafe. 
Mr E hasnt provided enough evidence that is contrary to BG. He said that he had an 
informal chat to an engineer, but I have no information from Mr E about the experience or 
expertise of that engineer or even if he is gas safe registered.
Mr E said that he believes that the installation of the old flue was at risk, but BG has 
provided evidence to show that although the installation wasnt in accordance with the 
current standards, there is no evidence to suggest that it was unsafe. So, Im satisfied that 
the old flue wasnt unsafe or posed a risk to Mr E and his family.
I have also considered the installation manual that Mr E provided. He said it shows that the 
installation of the previous flue was illegal. But BG has confirmed that it didnt install the 
original flue. It has also confirmed that it was likely at the time to have been installed as per the regulations and although the installation wasnt up to current regulations, it wasnt 
unsafe. 
Further Mr E hasnt provided any other evidence to show of any safety or health issues and I 
understand that the new boiler and flue have now been installed by BG. So, I cant be 
satisfied that the original flue was unsafe, and that BG was negligent. Accordingly, I cant 
fairly ask BG to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman