DRN-3362825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained that Royal &Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unreasonably 
refused to pay their claim under their pet policy for their dog.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a policy for their dog on 18 May 2020. They made a claim for a 
cruciate repair operation in their dogs right hind leg in April 2021 namely the costs of this 
operation in sum of £4,343.15.
 
RSA assessed the full medical history of their dog and declined to pay the claim because in 
October 2019 their dog had cruciate ligament surgery on his left leg. RSA considered that Mr 
and Mrs Fs dog was suffering from cruciate ligament disease and since this started before 
this policy began, it was therefore a pre-existing condition and so excluded. 
Mr and Mrs F complained. RSA didnt think it had done anything wrong in refusing to pay 
their claim but for some errors in the claims handling for which it paid Mr and Mrs F £50 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs F remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us. The investigator 
ultimately was of the view that RSA hadnt done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs F disagreed so 
their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mr and Mrs F will be with my decision. 
However, my role is to assess if RSA did anything wrong bearing in mind the policy doesnt 
cover pre-existing conditions. So essentially this complaint concerns whether if it was likely 
Mr and Mrs Fs dog was suffering from cruciate ligament disease. 
First, there is no dispute that Mr and Mrs Fs dog had a cruciate ligament repair operation in 
October 2019 on his left leg which was before the policy started on 18 May 2020. And 
theres no dispute that sadly Mr and Mrs Fs dog presented with a cruciate ligament issues in 
his right leg which also required repair in April 2021, which is the cause of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Fs vet said on 11 May 2021 the following in his explanation of what happened 
with Mr and Mrs Fs dog given both cruciate ligaments needed repair:
It has been noted that further clarity is required to process the current claim for the 
surgical correction of [name of dog] right cranial cruciate ligament rupture:
Based on [name of dog] clinical history from [name of vet practice] it is ascertained 
that there is no relation of degenerative joint disease and the left cranial cruciate 
ligament rupture diagnosed and surgically corrected during October 2019: on the day 
(21 October 2019) [name of dog] presented with non-weight bearing lameness the 
owner stated that the lameness developed acutely following a run.
There is an entry on 28 October 2019, following the surgical correction and post-
operative consults, reiterating that [name of dog] condition does not have any bearing 
to episodes or investigations into lameness of the right front limb .. and had x-rays 
taken in September 2019 for the suspicion of lumbosacral and hip joint pathology 
which revealed negligible degenerative changes at that time.
RSAs expert vet said the following on 31 August 2021 having reviewed what Mr and Mrs Fs 
vet said above: 
 Cranial cruciate ligament disease, and degenerative joint disease are two different 
disease processes.
Cranial cruciate ligament disease is a multifactorial condition which causes 
the degeneration of the cranial cruciate ligament. This disease process does 
not affect any other ligaments.
Degenerative joint disease (arthritis) can be caused by normal aging process, 
or mechanical instability of the joint.
The cranial cruciate ligament is the main stabilising ligament of the stifle. When the 
ligament is affected by the degenerative process, the stifle can become instable, and 
this in time will result in stifle arthritis. However, depending on the grade of the 
degeneration, the stifle will not be instable in all cases, and there will be no 
degenerative changes. This does not exclude cruciate ligament degeneration.
The presentation of the cruciate ligament degeneration/rupture can be acute or 
chronic, with variable degrees of degeneration. In dogs the most common cause of 
the cruciate ligament rupture is the degeneration of the ligament. In some dogs, the 
degenerative process will affect the cranial cruciate ligament from both sides, and
commonly the second ligament ruptures 1.5  2 years after the first ligament rupture 
(can vary from 5 weeks to 5 years).
The entry from 28/10/2019 makes a reference to the lameness from February 2019, 
and seems to be related to another challenge to a declined claim. However, we are 
linking the two cruciate ruptures, and it is not really relevant when did [sic] the first 
cruciate rupture started.
RSAs final response letter on 21 September 2021 relied on the opinion of its expert vet in 
declining this claim due to cruciate ligament disease which sadly started before this policy 
came into being.
In my opinion, I find the evidence from RSAs expert evidence more persuasive that it was 
more likely that Mr and Mrs Fs dog was sadly suffering from cruciate ligament disease. 
Cruciate ligament disease clearly exists too. Namely its the fraying and degeneration of the 
cruciate ligament (only), rather than any other type of degeneration issues which Mr and Mrs 
F mistakenly believed ought to be present to prove anything concerning a degenerative 
condition. Mr and Mrs Fs dogs issues also fits the worst pattern of cruciate ligament 
disease in that both his cruciate ligaments were sadly affected. 
Mr and Mrs Fs vet concerned himself with degenerative joint disease in his evidence which 
has very little to do with cruciate ligament disease. In my view he then confuses the matter further talking about the dogs possible previous lumbar spine or hip issues which is again 
not connected to cruciate ligament disease. More so given RSAs expert vet account of 
cruciate ligament disease. Therefore, I dont consider Mr and Mrs Fs vet evidence 
addresses the issue of cruciate ligament disease in any meaningful way. If Mr and Mrs F are 
unhappy with this, that is a matter between them and their vet and it doesnt concern RSA. 
Cruciate ligament issues can present as acute or chronic (as RSAs final response letter 
explained) and sadly in both cases with Mr and Mrs Fs dog, he presented acutely, following 
normal active dog activity. There was therefore no reason, in my view, for the expert vet to 
talk to Mr F about what his dog was doing at the time, since there was no evidence or 
account that Mr and Mrs Fs dog was doing anything other than normal active dog activity. 
Mrs F further details correctly that the dogs cruciate ligament can snap acutely as in 
traumatically from running etc, but she missed out the fact that the ligament only does this 
when its affected by cruciate ligament disease as in it had started to fray and degenerate. 
Otherwise the force required for a healthy cruciate ligament to snap acutely is very 
significant and cant be done by normal dog running and jumping. This was also explained 
fully in RSAs final response letter. 
The schedule which was issued to Mrs F in May 2020 for the Extra policy provides £4,000 
cover for vet costs in relation to accidents and illnesses. The schedule also states the 
following:
You accept the policy wont insure:
any changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or behaviour 
before your cover start date, or any condition, illness or injury that you have 
been advised before the cover start date may lead to further illness or 
treatments. We will consider these to be a pre-existing condition or illness, 
and they will not be covered by your policy. We will not pay for any illness or 
injury that develops from these existing changes, conditions, illnesses or 
injuries. Any physical abnormality which you were aware of or is noted by 
your vets before the policy is taken out will not be covered and nor will any 
illnesses and treatments which arise from it. (All cover levels).
Consequently, I dont consider RSA did anything wrong in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs dog was 
suffering from cruciate ligament disease given the history and that he presented acutely 
following normal dog active activity. As this disease process started before the start of this 
policy, given the cruciate repair operation in October 2019, I also dont consider it was wrong 
of RSA to say this claim was excluded as the condition was pre-existing. 
I also agree it was wrong of RSA to initially tell Mr and Mrs F it was relying on new policy 
conditions which excludes any cruciate ligament claim when those policy conditions didnt 
apply to Mr and Mrs F. And I agree RSA should have compensation for that which I can see 
that it did. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman