DRN-3802932
The complaint
Ms F says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms F applied for a Barclaycard in July 2014. She was approved and given a credit limit of 
£7,700. In July 2019 this was increased to £9,200.
Ms F says the credit was beyond her income means and Barclays increased the amount 
without her consent. Barclays disagreed saying it completed affordability and 
creditworthiness checks before lending.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Fs complaint in part. He thought Barclays checks were not 
proportionate, but he did not have the evidence to conclude better checks at the time of 
application would to have led to a different lending decision. He did however have the 
evidence to conclude that better checks would have meant Barclays did not offer the limit 
increase in 2019. He set out what Barclays should do to put this right.
Barclays accepted this assessment. Ms F did not and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
She said as the conclusion was Barclays did not do the correct checks and lent money that 
she only used to repay other debts, she cannot be held responsible for spending money that 
she should not have been given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow 
these can be found in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this
required Barclays to do at the time of Ms Fs credit card application and limit increase.
Before giving Ms F a credit card, Barclays was required to carry out an affordability and a 
creditworthiness assessment. This meant it had to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that shed be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These 
checks werent just about how likely it was that it would get its money back  it had to focus 
on whether the repayments would adversely affect Ms Fs financial situation.
There was no set list of checks that Barclays had to complete, but it had to make sure the
checks it had completed were proportionate in the circumstances. There were a number of
factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the type and
amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other financial
commitments.
As credit card accounts are open-ended we also consider the length of time it would have
taken to repay the credit provided, had a consumer used the full limit that was offered from
the outset. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Barclays did what it
needed to before agreeing to lend to Ms F. This means in reaching my conclusion I
have considered the following questions:
did Barclays complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Ms Fs account application and limit increases to satisfy itself that she would be able
to repay the debt in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Barclays make fair lending decisions?
did Barclays act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The application in 2014
Barclays has provided evidence showing it asked for details of Ms Fs gross annual income 
from which it calculated her net monthly income (£2,120). It verified her declared
income with an external source. It asked about her employment and residential status
and says it then modelled her living expenses. It then carried out a credit check to 
understand Ms Fs existing credit commitments and credit history. This showed she had 
outstanding debt of £3,204, excluding her mortgage, with no history of defaults. From these 
checks it decided it was fair to lend to Ms F.
I dont think these checks were proportionate given the amount of credit being given. It was a 
high opening limit and so Barclays ought to have checked Ms Fs actual outgoings. I have 
tried to recreate what better checks would most likely have shown Barclays, in so far as is 
possible given how long ago the application was. From bank statements it seems her 
monthly commitments were around £1,265. So it seems Ms F had the disposable income to 
be able to sustainably afford the card and initial limit, assuming all of the limit was used. This 
means I dont think Barclays would have made a different lending decision had it carried out 
proportionate checks.
It follows I cant fairly conclude Barclays was wrong to give Ms F this credit card with its 
£7,700 limit.
The credit limit increase in 2019
Barclays says it reviewed how Ms F was managing her account  both the spending and her 
payment history. It then carried out another credit check. This showed Ms Fs debt had 
increased significantly since she opened her account  across both her credit cards/loans 
and her mortgage. Given this, the time since it had checked her disposable income, and the 
high limit of £9,200 I dont think these checks were proportionate. I think it ought to have 
checked at her actual incomings and committed outgoings. 
I have looked at her bank statements to get a view as to what better checks would most 
likely have shown Barclays. This time her outgoings were much higher at around £2,300 a 
month. And she was persistently overdrawn meaning she would most likely be borrowing to 
repay this card. So it seems Ms F no longer had the disposable income to be able to 
sustainably afford a limit increase limit. This means I think Barclays would have made a 
different lending decision had it carried out proportionate checks.
It follows I think Barclays was wrong to increase Ms Fs limit to £9,200.
I have not seen any evidence that Barclays treated Ms F unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.I am sorry to hear that Ms F is having financial difficulties and that her mental health has 
been impacted. I note she has been supported recently by relevant teams. And I can see 
Barclays signposted organisations that can help Ms F by providing debt advice. Ms F has 
asked that we instruct Barclays to write off all the debt, but our approach in these types of 
complaints is that the capital should be repaid as Ms F had the benefit of the money she 
spent. I have set out below the steps Barclays must take, I would remind it of its obligation to 
treat Ms F fairly and with forbearance, carefully considering her current circumstances. 
  
Putting things right
As I have decided Barclays should not have increased Ms Fs credit limit over £7,700 I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or fees on any balance that exceeded £7,700. 
If Barclays has sold the debt it should first try to buy it back, if that is not possible it must 
work with the new owner to achieve the same outcome as the steps set out below.
So Barclays should:
Rework Ms Fs account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances over £7,700
If this results in a credit balance this should be refunded to Ms F along with 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement
If this results in there being an outstanding balance remaining Barclays should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms F. I note Ms F has said she cannot 
afford to make any repayments - she should provide her updated income and 
expenditure to Barclays to allow it to offer a fair solution.
Any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file after the date of the limit 
increase should be removed once the balance is cleared.  
*HMRC requires Barclays to deduct any tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms F a certificate showing 
the deductions if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance it must do so 
after the tax deduction.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Fs complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman