DRN-1229830
 
The complaint
 Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2006 Ms D took out a mortgage and the bank recommended she also take out PPI to 
protect her repayments. The PPI cost about £30 a month and would have paid out about 
£507 a month if Ms D had made a successful claim.
Ms D says she had good redundancy pay in 2006 and other insurance that would have 
helped if she couldnt work because of illness. She says she had some savings too. She 
says she wouldnt have bought the PPI if shed been told it was optional at the time. Ms D 
thinks the bank was wrong to sell her the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds case
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Ms Ds main concern is that she was led to believe the PPI was compulsory  and that it 
duplicated insurance she already had, so she didnt need it. Shes also pointed out that it 
was expensive given it provided the same cover as her other insurance, and wasnt suitable 
for her. 
Halifax doesnt have all the paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place about 14 years ago. I wouldnt expect either Ms D or 
Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Ms D was 
given a choice about buying the PPI. I can see from Halifaxs internal records that its 
recorded answers to the sort of questions Id expect it to ask when selling PPI. Weve also 
been sent a copy of a demands and needs statement that was produced at the time the 
PPI was sold. Ms D says she told Halifax about her other insurance at the time. The demands and needs statement reflects this as it only recommends PPI, even though life and 
critical illness cover was also available. 
Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Ms D enough information for her to know she had the 
PPI, and that it was optional, even though I do understand why shes forgotten this over the 
years.
Halifax says it advised Ms D to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure that it met 
her needs. From what I know of Ms Ds circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
suitable for them.
Ms D was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like she would have been affected 
by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating 
to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ms D says she had other insurance policies that would help out if she couldnt work. 
From what Ive seen, they would only pay out if Ms D was critically ill. This type of 
policy is meant to repay a mortgage when theres little or no prospect of someone 
ever being able to work again. PPI policies will pay out for many shorter absences 
from work  perhaps due to an accident or a non-life threatening illness. And the PPI 
would pay on top of any work related benefits Ms D might have had (although she 
hasnt said she had any for illness). A mortgage is a big commitment, especially 
when there are children to consider, and I think Ms D would have had some use for 
the policy.
Halifax needed to give Ms D enough information for her to make an informed choice 
about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when she was told what the PI would 
cost. But I do think shed have known it cost something. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Ms D first knew the cost 
affected her decision to buy the PPI. I accept she says she thought it expensive, but I 
havent seen anything that made it unaffordable for her.
Its possible that Halifax could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Ms D wasnt affected by any 
of these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused 
her to change her mind about buying the policy. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman