DRN-3540428
The complaint
Mr W complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) wont refund him 
payments he made to what he says was an investment scam using his credit card.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019 Mr W made a series of payments to 
a merchant Ill refer to as C. At the time he believed C were providing him with an online 
trading account. In total Mr W made payments of nearly £8,000. 
The first two payments showed on Mr Ws statement as going to C, but the remainder went 
to a different merchant Ill refer to as R. The payments were made between May and July 
2019. 
In August 2019 Mr W told M&S that he believed C were operating a scam. He asked that 
they help him get his money back through the chargeback scheme. M&S considered both 
the Mastercard chargeback scheme and also Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(s.75) but ultimately declined to offer a refund. In summary they said Mr W didnt have a 
valid chargeback nor did he have a claim under s.75. 
Mr W complained and when M&S maintained their position he referred his complaint to our 
service. One of our Investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she thought M&S should provide a refund under s.75. M&S disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing 
this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising 
my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr W authorised the payments relevant to this complaint. And I dont 
think M&S were wrong to allow these payments to go through unchallenged at the relevant 
times. Mr W is seeking reimbursement through either chargeback or s.75. He believes he 
has been scammed by C. Whether C were operating a scam is potentially relevant to 
chargeback and s.75, so Ill deal with that first. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive paid particular attention to the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's 
securities regulators. Its my understanding that C have no adverse information reported 
about them on this source. I also wasnt able to find any warnings about C on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys website (FCA  the UK Regulator). Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ws 
testimony about his issues with C. He alleges that C cant have provided the services they 
purported to as they werent regulated to do so. I accept that C dont appear to have been 
regulated, but this doesnt in itself mean they were operating a scam. Overall, I cant say with 
any certainty that C were operating a scam and werent just offering high risk, unregulated 
investments. 
Chargeback
M&S are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. And 
whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally think its good practice one is raised 
where there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. Our service has clarified the position 
with Mastercard themselves and theyve confirmed there are very limited options for 
payments that have gone to any type of investment. The only possible avenue for success is 
if funds arent credited from the card to the investment account. 
Mr W says this is the case here. His reasoning is that as he believes C were operating a 
scam, they never actually provided him with a trading account (as they werent regulated to 
do so). Instead hes suggested it was all a simulation designed to take his money. Mr W isnt 
saying that due to some error C didnt credit his account, hes alleged it was an entirely 
fraudulent operation. I understand the point Mr W is making, but in essence this is the same 
as alleging hes been a victim of a scam. And being the victim of a scam isnt something the 
Mastercard chargeback scheme provides for. So taking all of this into consideration I think 
M&S declining to raise a chargeback was a reasonable exercise of their discretion. 
Section 75
For this to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain between the 
debtor (Mr W), creditor (M&S) and the supplier (C or potentially R). Ill refer to this as the 
DCS chain. And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of contract 
and or a misrepresentation between Mr W and C (or potentially R) in relation to a contract 
that was funded by the M&S credit card.
M&S questioned whether there was an unbroken DCS chain for all except the two payments 
that went directly to C. As Ive mentioned above, the majority of the payments (in both value 
and number) went to R. There is some information available online to support that R are a 
payment processor. And the use of a payment processor doesnt automatically break the 
DCS chain. But Im not going to make a finding in relation to the DCS chain as I dont think 
this makes a difference for the reasons Ill come to. 
The basis of our Investigator upholding the complaint was that she thought C had mis-
represented themselves as a genuine investment firm and that this had induced Mr W into 
entering an agreement with them. But as Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to 
support that C were operating a scam, I dont think Mr W has evidenced a valid claim for 
misrepresentation. Similarly, Ive not seen evidence of the contract / agreement between C 
and Mr W to support that there has been a breach of contract. As such, I dont think Mr W 
has evidenced he has a valid claim under s.75. Im of course sorry to hear Mr W lost such a significant amount of money. But on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can 
tell M&S they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Mr W provided a response which Ill address below. M&S didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has primarily asked that I reconsider his complaint in light of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a voluntary code which sometimes allows victims of 
authorised push payment scams to receive reimbursement from the banks involved. But 
unfortunately this code only applies to push payments such as bank transfers or similar. All 
the payments relevant to this complaint were made on Mr Ws M&S credit card. The CRM 
simply doesnt apply to card payments. So whilst I appreciate the point he has made, I cant 
use the CRM as a consideration here or as the basis for asking M&S to do anything further. 
Mr W has also mentioned the way in which C marketed their services which he believes 
supports that they were operating a scam. Ive considered this, and Ive acknowledged 
above that there may have been some dubious practices, but Im not persuaded this 
amounts to C operating a scam as Mr W alleges. 
Also in his submissions, Mr W intimated that one of his payments to R may have been 
unauthorised (that is he believed he was receiving a credit onto his card rather than having a 
payment debited). The notes of a call between Mr W and M&S state: Main cardholder called 
in reporting a scammed transaction customer said that he was under the impression that it 
a payment to [C] but when the payment posted it was registered to a different merchant. 
Further to this Mr Ws submissions to M&S in September 2019 stated that he wanted to raise 
a chargeback under the reason Services Not as Described. He went on to say The service, 
that was not as described was a trading service. Mr W then went on to explain that the 
merchant couldnt have provided the service as they werent regulated to do so.
The crux of the complaint to date has been around M&S not agreeing to a chargeback and 
had this been a payment that Mr W hadnt consented to, I would have expected this to have 
featured as part of his reasoning. Taking all of this into consideration, including the contact 
with M&S that Ive referenced above, Im more persuaded by the evidence available to me 
from the time and I think its most likely these were authorised transactions. 
Again, Im sorry to hear Mr W lost money, but as I dont think M&S are responsible for this, 
Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman