DRN-2002024
The complaint
Miss M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) over the way it handled 
her payment and direct debit to pay her credit card balance. She wants NatWest to accept 
that she paid her December 2019 statement balance in full, to amend her credit report and to 
pay her compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss M held both a current account and credit card account with NatWest. 
Miss M set up a direct debit to pay off her full credit card balance. Her statement dates were 
around the 3rd of the month and her direct debit was due on or around the 28th of the month. 
From around mid-2019, Miss M began making bank transfer payments of her full credit card 
balance at an earlier point in the month  usually between the 8th and the 20th. This would 
then reduce her direct debit balance to zero and no further payment would be taken at the 
end of the month. 
In December 2019, Miss M received her statement with a balance due of £1126.29. This 
was due to be paid by direct debit at the end of December 2019.
Miss M made a payment towards her balance of £200 on 18 December 2019. This was 
credited to her account and reduced her scheduled direct debit payment to £926.29. 
Miss M then made a further bank payment of the full balance of £1126.29 on 26 December 
2019. 
This payment was on a bank holiday and was not in time to affect the scheduled direct debit 
payment. 
On 30 December 2019 Miss Ms direct debit tried to take £926.29 from her current account, 
but there were insufficient funds. It temporarily appeared as having transferred and leaving 
her current account overdrawn. The direct debit was then returned and a returned payment 
fee of £10 was charged to her credit card account. 
Miss M contacted NatWest on 30 December 2019. She asked that her payment be returned 
to her current account as it appeared that she had paid her statement twice.
The agent agreed and transferred £926.29 to Miss Ms current account. 
This meant that when the direct debit subsequently returned Miss M had only paid £400 
towards her December 2019 balance. 
£726.29 was therefore carried forward into her January 2020 credit card statement, and 
additional spending in December 2019 of around £1100 was added to the balance. 
Miss M received her January 2020 statement. This showed an outstanding balance of 
around £1828 which was due to be taken by direct debit on or after 28 January 2020. 
Miss M was concerned that the balance was wrong and that her payments had not been 
properly credited to her credit card. She contacted NatWest and cancelled her direct debit so 
no payment would be taken at the end of January. 
When no payment was made in January 2020, Miss Ms credit card was restricted. 
She spent a long time on calls with NatWest and on occasion was promised a call back, 
which was not returned. 
Miss M complained to NatWest. She thought the balances shown on her credit card were 
wrong and she and was also concerned that her credit file may be affected as late payment 
markers and returned payment markers had been added to her account. 
NatWest sent Miss M responses in February 2020. These set out the timeline of payments 
and explained that the direct debit payment in December 2019 did not actually leave Miss 
Ms current account and was not credited to her credit card account. 
NatWest acknowledged that their agent should not have returned the amount of £926.29 to 
Miss Ms current account. It offered her £150 compensation for this error. NatWest also 
offered her £16.20 to reimburse the cost of her calls, £20 to reflect her inability to use the 
card in January, £30 to reflect her time spent and a further two payments of £50 
compensation, including for not returning a call as promised. 
Miss M remained unhappy and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that NatWest had made some mistakes but that they had overall acted fairly and had 
made reasonable offers to resolve those mistakes. Our investigator did not think that 
NatWest ought to remove information regarding non-payment from Miss Ms credit file as 
this was an accurate reflection of her payments.
Miss M did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the transactions in this complaint have been complicated and Miss M feels 
that this has resulted in her payments being inaccurately credited to her credit card. 
I have reviewed the payments into and out of Miss Ms credit card account and current 
account and I agree with the conclusions of our investigator. 
In respect of the December statement Miss M made net payments totalling £400. The direct 
debit payment which appeared on her banking view was not sent, and her manual payment 
of £1126.29 was partially refunded shortly after being transferred. 
I therefore cannot agree with Miss Ms view that she paid her balance in full. I agree that NatWest was wrong to refund the amount of £926.29 on 30 December and I 
accept that this contributed to the confusion, however Miss Ms manual payment was made 
too late to prevent the direct debit from being attempted. 
I have looked at Miss Ms January and February statements and am satisfied that late 
payment and returned payment fees have all been refunded to her account, and that 
compensation has been paid. I agree with the investigators view that the compensation is 
reasonable to reflect the inconvenience caused to Miss M and it is in line with awards we 
would make in similar circumstances. 
I note that NatWest has confirmed that no information regarding late payments in December 
was added to Miss Ms credit file, but that information in relation to missed payments from 
January 2020 has been added. I agree that no negative information relating to December 
should be recorded, but am not critical of NatWest accurately reporting the situation of Miss 
Ms non-payment subsequently. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and I do not uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint and do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman