DRN-2134985
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold life and critical illness cover by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
 
What happened
Mr A took out a business mortgage with HSBC in 2001 having transferred his finances from 
another bank. The loan was for £87,000 over a term of 10 years. At the same time, he was 
recommended a level term assurance policy providing life and critical illness cover matching 
the amount and term. 
In 2015 Mr A complained to HSBC that the policy had been mis-sold, but it didnt uphold the 
complaint. HSBC clarified that the policy wasnt payment protection insurance (PPI), as Mr A 
had suggested. It then went on to explain that the policy had been recommended after a 
normal sales process of fact-finding, in line with a request by HSBCs Lending Manager that 
an appropriate protection plan be put in place to cover the new borrowing. In short, it was a 
condition of the new business loan. 
HSBC also explained that a level term policy had been recommended, rather than a 
decreasing term one, because of the likelihood of Mr A increasing his borrowing, and as it 
was only £2.65 per month more.
In 2019 Mr A complained again, to this service via a third-party dispute resolution service. 
HSBC initially questioned our jurisdiction to investigate the complaint, given the delay in 
referral since 2015, but then consented to us going ahead. 
Our investigator reached a similar conclusion to that reached by HSBC in 2015. She was 
satisfied the policy had been a condition of lending and that Mr A had been made aware the 
cover didnt need to be taken through HSBC. She also felt the recommendation of level 
rather than decreasing cover had been reasonably explained. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr A provided further submissions in support of his 
complaint. He said, in brief;  
The policy had been unnecessary as there was already enough collateral in the 
mortgaged property. So, the policy effectively duplicated security for the loan. 
HSBC was the only party that would benefit from the policy.
He was told by the adviser that he had to take out the policy and was categorically 
not made aware that the cover could be obtained elsewhere. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Its commonplace for life cover to be a condition of business borrowing. I appreciate what 
Mr A has said about it not being needed in this case because of the security of the equity in 
the mortgaged property. But HSBC was entitled to lend on terms of its own choosing and to 
insist upon the insurance. If Mr A found these terms unacceptable, he wouldve been free to 
take his business elsewhere, although I think he would likely have encountered similar 
requirements with any alternative lender. 
I note also what Mr A has said about not being given the opportunity shop around for the 
cover; that he was effectively told he had to take it with HSBC. And I accept theres nothing 
in the limited documentation available that shows Mr A was told he could obtain the cover 
from another provider. But I think its likely the mortgage offer wouldve confirmed this. 
But even if I accept that it wasnt made clear to him, I dont think that if it had been it can be 
reasonably concluded that, more likely than not, he wouldve opted for an alternative 
provider, or found the same cover for a lower price. Given the level of cover provided, the 
monthly premium of £27.57 doesnt strike me as an excessive figure that would necessarily 
have prompted a search for potentially cheaper alternatives.
In respect of the selection of level rather than decreasing cover, I think, as noted, a 
reasonable rationale was provided. And the inclusion of critical illness cover in addition to the 
required life cover strikes me as suitable in the circumstances. Mr A was the self-employed 
proprietor of his own business, married and with no other protection provision in place. And 
ultimately it was something he couldve declined if hed felt it was unnecessary. 
In summary, Im satisfied HSBC acted correctly and reasonably in making its 
recommendation to Mr A. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman