DRN-2361219
The complaint
Ms C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited has not given her information about her account 
and that she has paid it more than she owes it. She also complains about the level of service 
she has received.
What happened
Ms C says she has asked Vanquis to tell her how much she owes it on her credit card debt 
but hasnt been given that information. She says she has repaid more than she owes, and 
that this problem has gone on for some time. Ms C says the debt has been sold to a third- 
party company and is unhappy about the level of service she has received from Vanquis.
Vanquis says it sold the credit card debt in 2019 and says it gave Ms C the account balance 
when she called it. It says it also gave her a telephone number she could contact the debt 
collecting company on and has provided details of payments and the balance up to the time 
of sale. Vanquis says it tried to help Ms C.
Ms C brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account was closed and sold in 2019 and that Vanquis had provided information 
about the balance and payments made by Ms C. The investigator thought if Ms C had 
concerns about the present balance and recent payments then she should contact the debt 
collecting company.
Ms C doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Vanquis has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate 
that Ms C will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Vanquiss records and the account statements. I think that Ms C used her 
account regularly, but payments were then missed, and interest was applied to the account. I 
can also see that for a time Ms C was only making token payments towards the account 
balance. And that in 2019 Vanquis made the decision to sell the debt which I think its 
entitled to do. So, if Ms C has concerns about payments that she has made since that sale 
then she will need to speak to the debt collecting company and Im satisfied Vanquis has 
fairly given her details of that company.
Im satisfied that Vanquis sent Ms C regular account statements which showed the balance 
owed and the payments she made. Im also satisfied that Vanquis gave that information 
again to Ms C as part of its final response letter. So, I think Vanquis has explained how 
much Ms C owed it and I have not seen any evidence that Ms C has repaid more that she 
owed as she says. I make clear to Ms C that we are not an auditing service and I have not 
seen evidence of a mistake in the either the statements or information Ms C was given.
I appreciate Ms C says that she was received poor service by Vanquis. I dont think she has 
been clear about what exactly that poor service was, but Im satisfied that Vanquis has given 
her the information she asked for. So, I dont think Ms C has received poor service and I 
have explained that if she is complaining about the debt collecting companys service then 
such complaints must be directed to it and not Vanquis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman