DRN-3139594
The complaint
Ms C complains that she was added as a party to an account with ClearBank Limited (CB) 
without her authorisation.
What happened
Ms C was a director and shareholder of a company (which I shall call A Ltd). A Ltd opened a 
business account with Tide in October 2020. CB operate the accounts for Tide, and in this 
decision, I will refer to CB. Ms C was named as a team member on the account of A Ltd. In 
December 2020, Ms C asked that she be removed from the account, but she was told by CB 
that this wasnt possible. Ms C requested a DSAR. In March 2021, there was a video 
verification between CB and Ms C and her team membership was cancelled.
Ms C complained  she said shed been added to A Ltds business account without her 
authorisation, without any identification or address verification (ID&V). Also, she asked for a 
DSAR which hadnt been received by February 2021. She said she wanted compensation of 
between £500 to £750.
CB said that Ms C had been given team member status, and only the main account holder 
can add or remove team members, and issue or cancel team cards. Because of the 
circumstances, they conducted a video verification of Ms Cs identity and then removed her 
from the account in that way. They then also ordered the DSAR. They apologised for the 
delay in dealing with Ms Cs request and confirmed that her team member card had been 
cancelled.
 
Ms C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said CB had acted reasonably. During 
our investigation, CB offered compensation of £100 to Ms C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms C asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Ms C feels that she was added to the business account of A Ltd without 
her authority, signature, or any identification checks being completed. I must say that initially, 
I found that odd, as a signatory to the bank account of a limited company would have to 
undergo those checks. But Ive looked at what happened here  including the status of a 
team member in this case.
I looked at the operating instructions and term and conditions of business accounts operated 
by CB. And  its important to understand that a team member isnt a signatory to a 
business account with CB. They cant operate the bank account, or make payments, for 
example. So  its not like being a full party to a business account as you might find with a 
traditional business bank account. All team members could do was have read access  
which meant they could see the bank accounts transactions, but not operate it. Basically, 
the person operating the bank account delegated limited access to the bank account to team 
members. Team members had no liability on the bank account.
CBs terms and conditions say that only the person who operated the account (who I will call 
B) could add or remove team members. CB couldnt do that. And  thats what happened 
here  Ms C was added as a team member by B, who operated A Ltds bank account. And  
therefore, because of the status of Ms C as a team member only, full ID&V wasnt needed to 
be undertaken by CB. It was down to B to log her basic personal details  such as email 
address, postal address, mobile phone number, and date of birth. 
And so  when Ms C wanted to be removed as a team member, it was for B to do that  not 
CB. And thats where Ms Cs main complaint arose  because it looks like B wasnt in 
contact with either Ms C or CB. So I can see that CB then had to take action to sort things 
out. In order to do that, they conducted a video call with Ms C to verify her being taken off as 
a team member  and at the same time, they used the call to confirm the ordering of the 
DSAR. But, because of what happened, this took some time to resolve  as it was an 
unusual situation. 
Ms C said to us that the DSAR hadnt been received when she complained in February 
2021. Ive seen in CBs records that it was sent in March 2021. This took longer than the one 
month it should have  which was also due to the circumstances Ive described.  For the 
delay in dealing with the DSAR and in resolving Ms Cs complaint, CB offered compensation 
of £100 during our investigation.
And so  I think CB acted reasonably. I appreciate that Ms C feels strongly about her 
complaint, and therefore she will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
CB to do anymore here. If Ms C wishes to receive the compensation that CB have offered, 
she should get in touch with them to arrange payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman