DRN-4086374
The complaint
Mr F complains he was mis-sold an investment by Mayfair Capital Limited (MCL) into two 
bonds. He was told his money was safe and would be returned after five years but has now 
found out this has been extended for a further two years. He is concerned about losing the 
money he invested for his pension. 
What happened
In July 2017, MCL purchased two bonds for Mr F as part of an advisory service it provided 
for his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Approximately £10,500 was invested into the 
bonds, with an expected maturity date in five years time. 
In February 2022, Mr F made inquiries with MCL about the maturity of his investments as he 
wanted to return the funds to his pension. MCL informed him the term had been extended 
and his investments would no longer be maturing after five years - but instead it would be in 
a further two years time in 2024. Mr F was unhappy with this explanation, so raised a 
complaint. He said he was never told the term could be extended without his agreement and 
was now worried he may not get anything back. 
MCL responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
Its investment into the bonds, made up of the Corporate Bond element of Mr Fs 
portfolio, had been disappointing. It felt confident that this was a relatively safe 
investment but due to the outbreak of Covid-19, there had been a material impact on 
the issuing company and as a result the maturity was extended. 
The bonds are currently showing a zero value, but it still believes Mr F will receive 
the principle of the investment when they mature in 2024. 
It didnt agree to return Mr Fs original investment on the basis that the facts of the 
investment were presented to him at the outset, and he agreed to proceed 
acknowledging the risk warnings in the onboarding documentation. 
Mr F asked our service to complete an independent review of his complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into it and upheld the complaint. He was persuaded Mr F was willing 
and able to take some risk with his pension funds with the hope of achieving returns that 
would keep pace with inflation and provide real growth. But considering his personal and 
financial circumstances, he had a limited amount of income and assets on which he could 
rely to provide for him in retirement. He was not persuaded Mr F was in a position to invest 
any proportion of his pension funds in higher risk or speculative investments. Overall, he 
found it was inappropriate for MCL to recommend Mr F invest a proportion of his limited 
pension funds into the bonds.
MCL didnt accept the investigators conclusions. In summary it said:
Mr F indicated that he was comfortable with 15% in high-risk investments  and this 
is not unusual for a balanced portfolio. 
Mr F came to MCL via an IFA who would have presented the brochure and the type 
of asset allocation he would have expected to receive, and he also went through 
MCL's Know Your Client (KYC) process. 
The bonds were at the time considered an Investment Grade A rated product from 
an internationally recognised rating agency (therefore not considered as high risk). 
MCL and Mr F felt comfortable with the investment for this reason. 
Although, the bonds havent performed as expected, Covid-19 had a significant 
impact on the product, and it has been extended because of exceptional 
circumstances. While an extension wasnt discussed, this is a lesser extent to the 
core risk warning which states all investments can go to zero. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided by the parties indicates that MCL was providing an advisory 
investment management service to Mr Fs SIPP. This advisory element triggered MCLs 
regulatory responsibility to give suitable advice (and the responsibility to properly assess Mr 
Fs profile for this purpose).
The complaint made by Mr F is specifically in respect of two bonds that were held within his 
portfolio. His complaint was triggered by the underperformance of bonds leading to an 
extension of the redemption date and concerns whether his capital will be returned. Mr F 
says he wasnt aware of this possibility when MCL advised him.  
So, Ive looked at the available evidence to decide whether (or not) the bonds were 
suitable for Mr F. The bonds in question were a non-standard, speculative, and illiquid
investment, which broadly speaking, is not commonly a suitable type of investment for most 
retail client pensions, or at least not in any significant proportion. This means good reasons 
and particular circumstances would probably have been needed to justify such an 
investment.
Mr F says, prior to investing his pension through MCL, he had dealt with another advisor 
who had assessed him as having a cautious attitude to risk. He said he had no intention of 
investing in high-risk products and just followed the advice he was given. 
MCLs KYC process collected information in relation to Mr Fs circumstances at the time. He 
was employed and living in rented accommodation. He had around £1,000 in cash but no 
other investments, aside from the £72,000 set aside for investment within his pension. I 
havent seen evidence of him previously investing in unregulated products or schemes. MCL 
made a different assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk and found him to have a medium 
attitude to risk, with the other options being low and high. 
The bond appears to have been invested in corporate debt in the asset based lending and 
corporate peer-to-peer sector. Mr F has provided a copy of factsheets he received about the 
bonds. Returns were dependent on the repayment of loans by borrowers. This type of 
investment carries inherent risks  for example, the risk of illiquidity if/when the 
relevant debt isnt repaid due to third party borrowers not meeting commitments and even 
when secured there is also a risk in the event of default the value of the security may not be 
sufficient to return. The multifaceted risk of this type of investment means capital might not 
readily be recoverable leading to a total loss and promised interest payments not made. 
The information Ive seen about Mr F circumstances suggest he had limited funds available 
and not much experience of risk-based investment. He was in his 50s, so not that many 
years from his state retirement age. He also only had a modest level of funds to invest in his pension. From what Ive seen, Mr F didnt have much in the way of capacity for loss as this 
appears to be his only pension provision. The investment into these bonds made up nearly 
15% of all of his pension savings. The idea of placing his pensions funds in a high-risk 
unregulated investment doesnt fit his apparent capacity for loss. 
While I note MCL recorded Mr F as having a medium attitude to risk, Im not persuaded his 
circumstances support this. As mentioned above he doesnt appear to have much in the way 
of investment experience and a limited capacity for loss. In addition to this, Ive seen 
evidence to support Mr Fs claims that his previous IFA considered him to be have a 
cautious attitude to risk at time, before MCL reassessed him. This appears to be more in line 
with Ive seen of his circumstances. This all leads me to the conclusion that this type of 
investment wasnt suitable for Mr F.
I have noted MCL comments about the bonds having A grading, so were considered safer. 
I also acknowledge wat MCL says about the impact Covid-19 had on the bonds 
performance. But these points dont change the nature of the bonds or make them 
appropriate for retail client pensions. The nature of the bonds - a non-standard, speculative, 
and illiquid investment which wasnt appropriate to be held in most retail client pensions - 
should have led MCL to question whether they would be suitable for someone in Mr Fs 
circumstances and not recommended them. 
Overall and at the time of the investment, Mr Fs profile did not fit that of an investor seeking 
a high-risk and sophisticated investment. On balance and for the reasons given above, I 
dont think the bonds were suitable for Mr F and shouldnt have been recommended to add 
to his portfolio.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must MCL do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, MCL must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
MCL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
MCL should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If MCL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr F £300 for distress caused by the loss of a significant proportion of his 
pension investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MCL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. MCL should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
CBF Ltd 
BondsStill exists but 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. MCL should take ownership of the illiquid investments by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount MCL pays should be included in the actual 
value before compensation is calculated.
If MCL is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. MCL may require that Mr F provides an undertaking to pay 
MCL any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. MCL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Mayfair Capital Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Mayfair Capital Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman