DRN-4443633
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited havent fully settled a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms F was due to travel on her cruise. Unfortunately, her train to the departure point was 
delayed and then terminated early. She missed the departure from port and incurred 
additional expenses trying to catch up with the cruise. Ultimately, she was unable to do so 
and claimed for her additional and unused expenses. 
Aviva agreed to pay Ms Fs additional expenses but not the claim for the unused cruise 
holiday. They said this situation wasnt covered by the policy terms and highlighted the 
general exclusion which says there is no cover for any loss not specified by the policy. Ms F 
complained but Aviva maintained their decision was fair. Unhappy, Ms F complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think Aviva had unreasonably 
declined the claim as he didnt think there was cover available under the policy terms. 
Ms F didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that the 
whole point of travel insurance was to cover unforeseen circumstances and that Aviva had 
paid her travel companions claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say there is cover for:
Travel disruption
Well cover unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the 
insured person to continue their trip or to get home at the end of their trip, if their pre-
paid travel plans are disrupted for the following reasons: 
The insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or delayed 
for more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or diverted after 
departure, and the travel provider is unable to provide suitable alternative 
arrangements within 24 hours of the original departure. 
"Missed transport
Well pay for alternative travel and accommodation costs to enable the insured 
person to reach their destination if their pre-booked transport is missed because of 
an unexpected transport delay, such as the vehicle they're travelling in breaking 
down, or public transport being delayed or cancelled."
Cancelling or coming home early
What well cover:
We'll pay the costs shown in this section if an insured person unavoidably has to 
cancel their trip or come home early because:
1. they, a person they're going to stay with, a close relative or a business colleague 
who must be at work in order for them to go on their trip becomes ill, is injured, 
dies or is quarantined. You'll also be covered if the insured person's travelling 
companion has to cancel the trip or come home early because of one of these 
events,
2. They or their travelling companion are:
- called as a witness or for jury service or to attend a tribunal in a court of law
- formally notified of redundancy
- needed at home following a burglary or severe damage to their home
- unable to reach or use their pre-arranged accommodation due to a natural 
disaster, severe weather, fire, explosion or an outbreak of food poisoning
- denied boarding because there are too many passengers and no alternative 
is available for more than 12 hours from the scheduled departure time
- a member of HM Armed Forces, the Emergency Services, a government 
department or the NFIS and leave is cancelled due to an unexpected posting 
or an emergency in the UK
3. the insured person or their travelling companion's:
- travel or accommodation provider becomes insolvent
- pre-booked travel arrangements on their outward journey from the UK are 
cancelled or delayed for more than 12 hours or diverted after departure, and 
the travel provider is unable to provide suitable alternative arrangements 
within 24 hours of the original departure
4. in the 31 days before the departure date, or while the insured person is away on 
their trip:
- they or their travelling companion is the victim of a violent crime that has 
been dealt with by the police
- the FCDO issues an advisory notice advising British nationals against all (or 
all but essential) travel to the insured person's destination, or to leave the 
area in which they are staying
- a government closes the border or introduces a local lockdown which prevents the insured person from travelling or continuing their trip
- a terrorist attack or natural disaster happens within a 50-mile radius of the 
insured person's pre-arranged accommodation and they don't wish to travel 
or they wish to return home early."
Did Aviva fairly decline the claim? 
Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint because: 
Ms Fs pre-booked travel on her train wasnt delayed for 12 hours or more. So, 
there is no cover available under the cancellation section of the policy or for 
coming home early. 
Ms Fs flight, which she booked to catch up with the cruise, wasnt part of her 
original pre-booked travel arrangements. And, in any event, it also wasnt delayed 
for 12 hours or more. 
The policy does cover Ms Fs alternative travel and accommodation costs to 
enable her to reach her destination if her pre-booked transport was missed due to 
unexpected travel delay. Thats what happened as Ms Fs train was delayed and 
then terminated. So, she missed her connection and booked flights to try and 
catch up with the cruise at another port. Aviva have paid those additional 
expenses in line with the policy terms. 
I appreciate that the circumstances were unforeseen but travel insurance policies 
dont cover all eventualities. And in the circumstances of this case Ms Fs 
circumstances are not covered by the policy terms.    
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay 
the claim outside the policy terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be in 
the circumstances of this case. I think the policy terms are sufficiently clear about 
the scope of cover and lots of travel insurance policies have similar limitations to 
the cover offered. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva 
to pay the claim. 
Ms F has mentioned that her travel companions claim was paid. Aviva has 
confirmed the settlement was made in error. So, I dont think it follows that 
Ms Fs claim should also be paid. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman