DRN-2926929
The complaint
Mr R complains Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) didnt warn him of the 
risks of investing into a particular investment trust or warn him about the performance. 
 
What happened
In April 2015, Mr R opened an account with Fidelity. He wanted to invest his annual ISA 
allowance in a particular investment trust via Fidelitys platform. He wanted to invest his full 
allowance at the public offering stage, but it was oversubscribed. Therefore, he invested the 
shortfall in November 2015. 
However, issues arose with other investment funds managed by the same individual who 
managed the trust Mr R was invested in. These issues led to the suspension of two separate 
funds in 2019.  Although the trust Mr R was invested in wasnt suspended, his investment 
decreased significantly in value.  
Mr R complained to Fidelity in October 2019 because he felt they should have given him 
more information about the risks involved with the investment trust. He said he was not 
advised it was extraordinarily high risk and a volatile investment, and he would not have 
invested had he known. Also, that he should have been warned about the performance. He 
said he appreciated market values could rise and fall, but investors were exposed to 
unnecessary and unacceptably high investment risks. He felt he was owed a duty of care by 
Fidelity and he was not kept informed about the acutely deteriorating situation. Also, he said 
the late information provided to small investors was highlighted in some of the related media 
coverage. 
Fidelity responded to the complaint in February 2020. They enclosed a gift voucher of £75 
for the delay in responding to Mr Rs complaint. However, they didnt agree they were 
responsible for giving any financial advice. They said they offer a non-advised, execution-
only platform which provides research, information, guidance and reporting, but does not 
track individual performance. They explained customers can appoint financial advisors to 
manage their portfolio. Also, that the investment trust Mr R was invested in was never closed 
to dealing. They also explained the investment trust had been taken over in December 2019. 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Amongst other points, he said Fidelity 
did alert him in October 2019 but it was too late as the value had already significantly 
dropped.  He said they had a duty of care to monitor the performance of his investment. 
The Investigator issued a view explaining why he didnt think Fidelity had done anything 
wrong. In particular, he found Fidelity werent responsible for giving financial advice about 
the suitability of the trust. He also explained that we cant consider complaints about 
complaint handling, so he didnt comment on the £75 voucher issued by Fidelity to 
acknowledge there had been delay in responding to the complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said Fidelity are liable for his financial losses. He confirmed he 
understands they cant provide advice, but that his attitude to risk was always low to medium 
and he would not have contemplated investing if hed known about the risks. In his view, this 
is what should have been highlighted by Fidelity and it isnt about giving advice but stating 
the risk rating of the investment trust. 
Mr R also explained that the issue with the investment trust wasnt a normal situation. For 
example, there had been media coverage regarding the managers conduct and the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had been involved. Hes aware that investments can go 
up and down, but these circumstances were exceptional and unwarranted. Therefore, he 
said Fidelity owed him a moral duty of care to alert him sooner. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions provided by Fidelity when Mr R opened the account. I 
can see Fidelity explained that they wouldnt provide advice and werent required to assess 
the suitability or appropriateness of investments. This was highlighted under the heading 
Important Information and Im of the view it was sufficiently prominent. Also, that they 
wouldnt be held legally responsible if a loss occurred as a result of a fall in the investment 
value. 
I appreciate Mr R explained that he understands Fidelity wouldnt provide advice. However, I 
do want to highlight the significance because it means the investment services provided by 
Fidelity were provided on a non-advised basis and this means they werent obligated to 
monitor performance and provide advice to individuals about their investments. 
Aside from the terms and conditions, Fidelity also explained they didnt provide investment 
advice when they wrote to Mr R in April 2015. They said if he needed advice, he could 
contact an authorised financial advisor. Again, this was sufficiently prominent, and it was 
recorded under the heading Important Information. So, Fidelity made it reasonably clear 
they wouldnt be providing advice from the outset. 
In addition to this, Fidelity have provided the prospectus which was sent (along with the 
application form) for investing in the investment trust when it opened. Theyve also provided 
the key information document which set out the returns which could be expected in various 
scenarios (for example, favourable and unfavourable scenarios). It also outlined that the 
investment trust was a medium risk investment. 
Having reviewed the documents, I can see Fidelity provided information about the trust in 
line with their obligations. I appreciate Mr R has raised concerns he was never told about the 
risks involved, but the information provided by Fidelity would have been based on what was 
known about the investment trust at the time. This was before issues with underperformance 
and suspension of other funds. Fidelity have explained they would not track the performance of individuals investments. 
However, I can see they did provide Mr R with statements and valuations for his investment 
trust between 2016 and 2020. This gave Mr R the opportunity to consider how the 
investments were performing on an annual basis. I can see the value reduced over the 
years, but Im not persuaded Fidelity should have provided advice on this. They provided Mr 
R with information about how his investment trust was performing and this was sufficient.
 
In his complaint letter to Fidelity in October 2019, Mr R explained he had received a 
notification on 16 October explaining that he needed to log into his account as there was a 
secure message for him. It was then he saw there was a problem and his investment had 
significantly dropped in value. I appreciate he is concerned this was the first he heard of the 
situation. Ive also seen a copy of the corporate notification which was sent on 25 October. 
Fidelity explained that the trusts board had agreed to appoint a new manager and they 
expected this to take place by the end of the year. 
Fidelity have explained that as the trust was not suspended and there was no impact to 
dealing, the only communications sent directly were the required notifications of corporate 
actions. Im persuaded this was reasonable because of the type of service Fidelity was 
providing here. 
Overall, I appreciate my decision will be exceedingly disappointing for Mr R and I recognise 
how strongly he feels about his complaint. However, he instructed Fidelity on a non-advised 
basis. They were required to provide information about the trust which I can see they did in 
the prospectus and key information document. They also provided statements which showed 
the value of the investment and sent the corporate action notification. Therefore, Im satisfied 
the actions taken by Fidelity were reasonable and I wouldnt have expected them to do more 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman