DRN-3425833
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with her mortgage account. She 
asks that it evicts the tenants from the security property, takes possession and markets the 
property so as to achieve the best price. 
What happened
Mrs D took out a residential mortgage in 2006 with HSBC. Mrs D let the property and 
arranged for the tenant to make payments directly to the mortgage account. Mrs D also 
entered into an agreement with the tenant and/or an overseas company associated with the 
tenant which gave them options to acquire her interest in the property.
Mrs D says she found out the tenant was being investigated for financial crime. She tried 
unsuccessfully to evict the tenant. In 2018 Mrs D asked HSBC to stop accepting payments 
from the tenant. Mrs D didnt make mortgage payments, and so the mortgage fell into 
arrears. HSBC started action for possession, which Mrs D supported.
Mrs D says HSBC took too long to evict the tenant from the property. During this time the 
mortgage balance increased due to the arrears and legal costs. The tenant was evicted in 
late 2021. Mrs D was concerned that after taking possession, HSBC would appoint an estate 
agent without the right expertise for the type of property. 
Mrs D was declared bankrupt in 2019. The official receiver told us that any compensation 
awarded in relation to this complaint would be part of the bankruptcy estate. Mrs D disputes 
this as shes been discharged from bankruptcy. Ill leave it to the official receiver and Mrs D 
to reach an agreement about this. 
Our investigator said it was for Mrs D to seek consent to let from HSBC and make her own 
checks on the tenant before letting the property. He said delays in HSBC evicting the tenant 
and taking possession were due to the agreements Mrs D put in place with the tenant. 
HSBC paid £50 compensation for a slight delay in authorising legal costs. Our investigator 
said HSBC had acted appropriately in the circumstances. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said there wasnt a tenancy agreement. She said the options given 
to the overseas company associated with the tenant expired some years ago. She said by 
2018 the tenant was an illegal squatter. Mrs D said as there was no tenancy agreement 
there was no need for her to make checks on the tenant. 
Mrs D said HSBC had taken too long and spent too much on legal costs and the matter 
wasnt as complicated as it suggested. She said HSBC went to court without checking if the 
overseas company had been struck off, wasting legal costs. She says HSBC wasted time so 
that it can benefit from more of the equity in the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs D took out a residential mortgage. The mortgage terms and conditions didnt allow her to 
let the property. Mrs D allowed a third party to live in the property in return for payment 
(some or all of which was paid direct into her mortgage account). Mrs D also agreed an 
option for a company associated with the tenant to buy her interest in the property. 
Regardless of how Mrs D describes the agreement, I think its reasonable to find that she let 
the property. Mrs D didnt ask HSBC for consent to let, and so she let the property in breach 
of the terms of her mortgage.
HSBC had no part in or responsibility for Mrs Ds decision to let the property, the terms of the 
agreement under which it was let or her choice of tenant. 
I havent seen evidence that Mrs D told HSBC shed let the property or told it about her 
concerns about the tenant before March 2018. Initially, HSBC expected Mrs D to sort out her 
problems with the tenant. I think that was reasonable. It was Mrs D that agreed the contract 
under which the property was let out, including that payments would be made directly to her 
mortgage account. Mrs D gave the tenant account details for the payments.
In July 2018 HSBC said it needed Mrs Ds written authority to return payments made by 
tenant. It reminded her of her obligation to make mortgage payments. Mrs D provided the 
authority. She didnt make payments and the account fell into arrears. Mrs D told HSBC she 
wanted it to take the property into possession.
HSBC sent a final demand in September 2018. It appointed solicitors in respect of 
possession proceedings in November 2018. It obtained a possession order in January 2019, 
and an eviction date was set for the end of March 2019. I think HSBC acted promptly in 
starting the process to take possession.
Matters were held up as the tenant and the overseas company challenged the eviction and 
claimed a legal right to Mrs Ds interest in the property. The tenants solicitor said the tenant 
had been successful in previous legal proceedings with Mrs D. The tenant had registered a 
restriction on the property title. The tenant and the overseas company asserted rights to the 
property which resulted in a number of hearings during 2019 into 2021. There were delays 
during the Covid-19 pandemic, due to a moratorium on evictions, and the court rescheduled 
an eviction date when a member of the tenants family was isolating. 
This delayed HSBC taking possession. HSBC incurred significant legal costs. Ive read 
through HSBCs records and correspondence with its solicitors. HSBCs solicitors advised 
HSBC to appoint counsel to represent it. The situation was complicated and I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to appoint solicitors and counsel. HSBC monitored legal fees and 
sought internal approvals for costs throughout. At one point this caused a short delay for 
which HSBC apologised and paid compensation. I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably 
when instructing legal advisers. I think the legal costs were unavoidable if it was to defend 
the tenants claims to the property, take possession and protect its security interest.
Mrs D says some of the legal costs were wrongly incurred as the overseas company was 
struck off the company register in its home jurisdiction. She sent evidence of this. This 
evidence says the company wasnt formally liquidated or dissolved, the striking off didnt 
affect its liability and it could apply to be restored to the register. Whether this company is or was capable of exercising legal rights isnt something I can decide, nor do I need to do so to 
reach a fair decision. HSBCs problem in taking possession was that the tenant and his 
family were living in the property. It needed a court to agree they could be evicted. And it had 
to defend the claims and applications brought by the tenant and the overseas company in 
order to achieve this.
Mrs D says she shouldnt be liable for rent since 2018 as this overseas company didnt exist. 
If Mrs D means she shouldnt be responsible for mortgage payments then I dont agree. 
When Mrs D took out the mortgage she agreed to repay it. She agreed to make monthly 
repayments of interest and capital. Payments havent been made since mid-2018 and 
unpaid interest was added to the balance. I think this is right and fair. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC has been unreasonable or treated Mrs D unfairly. Mrs D entered 
into an agreement with third parties which it seems she later regretted. She was unable to 
evict the tenant from her property. Mrs D asked HSBC to take responsibility for sorting the 
matter out. This took time and HSBC incurred costs. Under the mortgage terms and 
conditions it was entitled to add these costs to the mortgage balance and I dont think it was 
unfair to do so.
What happens now? 
Mrs D expressed concerns that HSBC wouldnt appoint an appropriate agent to market the 
property to achieve the best price. HSBC hadnt taken possession when the complaint came 
to us, so this part of her complaint was about something that hadnt happened. This wasnt 
something that we could look into.
HSBC has now taken possession. It says any surplus funds after the sale of the property will 
be remitted in accordance with the instructions of the official receiver. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman