DRN-4002423
The complaint
Mr F complains that Contis Financial Services Limited gave him inaccurate information about 
how long it would take for funds that he did not receive from a cash machine to be returned 
to him, causing him additional stress at a difficult time.
What happened
On 21 December 2021 Mr F attempted to withdraw £250 from an ATM, however because he 
delayed taking the money when it had been dispensed it was drawn back into the machine. 
Mr F contacted Contis to explain what had happened and to ask that the money be returned 
to him.
Contis advised that it would have to wait for 24-48 hours before it could raise the issue with 
the company that owned the ATM as the transaction was still pending. So Mr F called back 
the next day. It appears he then spoke to Contis several times, and was given various 
information about how long it would take for the funds to be returned. 
Mr F was unhappy with what he had been told, so he raised a complaint with Contis. Contis 
agreed that it had given Mr F some misleading information about the timescale for his money 
to be returned, and paid him £20 to recognise that. 
Mr F remained unhappy, particularly as he still did not have his money back, so he asked us 
to look into his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, they felt 
that Contis should pay Mr F an additional £80 given the impact these issues had on Mr F 
due to his particular vulnerabilities. They also commented that they felt Contis had delayed 
issuing its final response to Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F accepted the Investigators findings, but Contis did not, it said it had issued the final 
response letter within the required timescales.
As no agreement could be reached this complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly though, I want to confirm that Im satisfied Contis did issue its final response letter 
within the timescale required, so that issue does not form part of my reasons for upholding 
this complaint.
However, I am satisfied that with all Ive seen, it is appropriate for Contis to increase its 
compensation award to Mr F by £80, meaning it will have paid him £100 in total. I say this 
because, while I appreciate that the actual timescale for the return of the funds to Mr F was 
out of Contis hands  it was down to the company that owned and operated the ATM to set 
that timescale  I do think that the misinformation which Contis has confirmed he was given 
had a considerable impact on him, and I dont consider £20 compensation was adequate to 
recognise that impact. 
Mr F had explained to Contis that this money was his benefits, and that he needed it for food 
and heating bills. So it would have been clear to Contis how worrying this situation would 
have been to Mr F. And leading him to believe on more than one occasion that he would be 
getting his money within a short period of time, when that was incorrect, will have caused 
him a great deal of upset. 
So Im satisfied that a total award of £100  meaning Contis needs to pay Mr F an additional 
£80 on top of the £20 already paid  is fair and reasonable compensation in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, and in line with what I would have recommended.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Contis should pay Mr F £80.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, Contis Financial Services Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman