DRN-3043037
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy MoneyGram International Limited wont refund payments he made as 
a result of a scam.
What happened
On 17 August 2021 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I explained, based on 
what I had seen so far, I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision below and 
it forms part of the final decision;
What happened
In 2013 Mr H began communicating with someone in another country. He sent a series of 
payments to this individual and various other people connected to them, first using another 
money remittance service and later MoneyGram.
As far as Im aware, theres no significant dispute about the facts of this case, so its not 
necessary to set out the details of why Mr H transferred this money to several different 
people in several different countries, other than to say that he was the victim of a scam and 
was deceived into doing so.
Mr H, or friends acting on his behalf, made payments using various different MoneyGram 
agents from September 2013 until March 2014, when the scam came to light after Mr H 
noticed inconsistencies in the information he was given about the person he was financially 
supporting.
Mr Hs activity appears to have come to the attention of MoneyGram in January or February 
2014. They were concerned about the volume and frequency of the payments he was 
making. After 7 February 2014 they blocked Mr H from making any further payments but he 
continued to ask friends to make payments on his behalf until the discovery of the scam.
It wasnt until 2018 that Mr H contacted MoneyGram about what had happened. At that time, 
hed become aware that the other money remittance service he used had been ordered to 
provide redress for victims of scams, including him. Mr H is also aware that MoneyGram was 
ordered by authorities in the U.S. to reimburse some scam victims, like him, but only those 
which sent money from the U.S.
MoneyGram said it hadnt done anything wrong and was contractually obliged to release 
money to an individual with the correct reference number and identification. It believed that 
Mr H may have been visiting different MoneyGram locations in order to avoid detection. It
also said that it questioned him about his first online transaction in October 2013 and hed 
explained that he was sending £300 to pay for a flight for a friend.
In summary Mr H has said:
-Its unfair that a scheme does not exist to provide redress to victims like him and he 
expects to be treated in the same way as customers of the other money remitter and 
MoneyGrams customers in the U.S.
-MoneyGram should be responsible for paying out money to fictitious individuals and 
nobody has done anything to bring them to justice
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought that MoneyGrams 
investigation into the activity carried out by Mr H should have been completed earlier  so it 
should refund all the payments he made after 1 January 2014.
MoneyGram disagreed, it said that the investigation hadnt taken place in January 2014 but 
rather February 2014 and it had taken appropriate and timely action to prevent any further 
losses. It also noted that a warning is given on the form Mr H would have needed to fill out 
for each payment and its terms and conditions say it will not be responsible where 
customers fail to take notice of these warnings.
Mr H accepted our investigators findings on the basis that all the transactions made either 
by him, or by friends on his behalf, were included in the settlement. Our investigator 
explained that wed only be able to consider payments hed made himself, not those made 
by third parties.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different 
outcome to the investigator and Ill explain why.
Its first important to set out what I can and cannot consider as part of this complaint.
While I understand Mr Hs frustration that the fraudsters were able to collect the money he 
sent and no action seems to have been taken against them, my considerations are limited to 
the activities of MoneyGram, rather than the fraudsters. And, Im only able to consider 
MoneyGrams actions in relation to the sending of the funds, not the collection. Thats 
because the service that was provided to Mr H was the sending of funds. Once the funds 
were sent and made available to the payee, MoneyGram fulfilled that service. Mr H was 
neither a customer nor a payment service user in relation to the collection of funds. And, 
under the rules that govern our service (known as the DISP rules), it is necessary for Mr Hs 
complaint to arise out of matters relevant to one of those (among other) relationships in 
order for us to be able to consider it. The collection also took place at agents which do not 
fall under our territorial jurisdiction. That means I cant consider whether MoneyGram made 
a mistake in releasing the payments Mr H sent.
I can also only consider those payments Mr H made himself. While I dont doubt the other 
payments were made on his behalf, with his money, the contractual agreement in relation to 
those payments is between those third parties and MoneyGram. Under our rules Mr H is not
eligible to bring a complaint about those transactions to our service and Im unable to 
consider them further.
To be clear, that means I will only be considering MoneyGrams actions in relation to the 
sending of the payments made by Mr H between September 2013 and February 2014.Mr H suggests that I should apply the same principles to this case as those which have been 
applied by the U.S. Department of Justice in their restitution order against the other money 
remitter he used to send funds. He further argues that the similarity between that order and 
the restitution order agreed between U.S. authorities and MoneyGram, indicates that the
U.S. authorities would want payments to the same fraudsters to be refunded.
I understand why Mr H is frustrated by the fact hes received some reimbursement from the 
other money remittance service, but not from MoneyGram  despite the circumstances 
surrounding the payments being almost identical. However, I must make a decision on the 
facts of this case and the principles I must take into account are the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr H instructed MoneyGram to make these payments. So, the 
starting presumption is that Mr H is responsible for any loss thats happened as a result.
MoneyGram also argues its terms and conditions, specifically under term 8.4, provide a 
defence to Mr Hs claim. 8.4 states:
Our Service is for persons 18 years and over and may not be used for escrow, trust or 
gambling purposes, and may only be used for a lawful purpose. Please also read the fraud 
warnings on the Documentation. If you ask us to pay someone who turns out to have 
defrauded you or who fails to meet their obligations to you, we will not be liable as a result.
But I also need to consider whether MoneyGram, taking into account the relevant law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time, ought to have done more to prevent Mr Hs loss.
With that in mind, Ive considered the following questions:
-Is there, as the investigator suggests, sufficient evidence to indicate that MoneyGram 
began its review of Mr Hs activity in January 2014 and ought to have prevented further 
payments then, rather than later?; and, if not
-Should MoneyGram, in any case, have done more and prevented, or attempted to 
prevent, Mr H from continuing to make payments sooner than it did?
Due to the passage of time, some evidence is not available. MoneyGram do not appear to 
be able to tell our service exactly which transactions over the course of January and 
February 2014 triggered a review of his activity. This is unfortunate but understandable given 
the complaint relates to transactions from more than seven years ago.
The only reference to MoneyGram having concerns earlier than the date they blocked Mr Hs 
from further payments is in its submissions to our service where it says he triggered a 
number of alerts over the course of the months of January and February 2014, due to his 
high volume and high frequent money transfers. However, theres no evidence that the 
review of Mr Hs account took place until February 2014.
I dont have a detailed knowledge of MoneyGrams fraud detection systems, but I dont think 
it necessarily follows that because a payment triggered an alert, a review of his activity 
should have begun immediately. Neither does it mean that MoneyGram were slow in 
making, or unnecessarily delayed, a decision about Mr Hs activity. I think that a reasonable 
reading of MoneyGrams submissions is that a series of alerts led to a review of Mr Hs 
activity, not that the first alert triggered a review. So, unlike the investigator, Im not 
persuaded that MoneyGrams (albeit limited) submissions provide enough evidence that they 
were actively reviewing Mr Hs activity in January 2014.Ive considered whether MoneyGram ought, considering its obligations at the time, to have 
intervened any earlier. Having done so, I dont think that it was required to do so, and Ill 
explain why.
In recent years there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams  this, in part, 
has led to there being greater expectations of firms  banks and building societies in 
particular - in their role in helping to protect customers from financial harm from fraud. Its not 
uncommon that we find that firms ought to have done more to protect customers from 
financial harm from fraud but in deciding that a firm ought to have done more, we have to 
think about whether it met the expectations of it at the time and as Ive said, its fair to say 
these expectations have increased over recent years. Some examples of the way the 
landscape has changed since 2014 include:
-Before 2019 MoneyGram were not subject to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles 
for Businesses (PRIN)  which set out (among other things) that a business must 
conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence (principle 2) and must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (principle 6).
-PAS 17271:2017  Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or 
financial abuse, published in 2017, gave recommendations to firms for protecting 
customers from financial harm and guidance on how to recognise customers who might 
be at risk. It recommended that firms should have systems and tools in place for the 
prevention and detection of financial abuse and said that any suspicious transaction 
should be flagged, and a member of staff notified.
-The Banking Protocol, first introduced in 2016, is an initiative between banks, Trading 
Standards and the police to encourage bank staff to be proactive in spotting scams 
before money is handed over and enables staff to alert the police in certain 
circumstances.
-The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (CRM) 
was introduced in 2019. Its a voluntary code which requires its signatories (which dont 
include MoneyGram) to reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised 
push payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Signatories 
were also required to educate their customers about APP scams and take steps to 
identify higher risk payments and customers who were at higher risk of becoming victims 
to APP scams, as well as providing warnings about such scams.
However, while none of these obligations were in place at the time Mr H made the 
payments, its nevertheless apparent that MoneyGram did have systems in place and take 
certain steps to try and prevent Mr H from suffering financial harm. I say this because 
warnings were included on each sending form, and at least one of those warnings 
reasonably closely related to Mr Hs circumstances. They also monitored his activity for
patterns of transactions which might indicate financial harm and prevented him from making 
further payments once sufficiently concerned about the activity.
Im also mindful that Mr H visited various different agents to make the payments and, while I 
dont dispute Mr Hs reasons for doing this, that too is likely to have had an impact on 
MoneyGrams ability to detect concerning activity at an earlier point.
So overall, at the time the payments were made Im satisfied MoneyGram did have systems 
in place to look out for fraud and it did attempt to warn its customers about common scams 
in an effort to protect them from financial harm from fraud. Taking into account what 
MoneyGram did and the way firms obligations have changed over time, as well as the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied MoneyGram did enough to try to protect Mr H from financial harm; it did attempt to warn Mr H against the scam he fell victim 
to, and it did prevent him from making further payments at a point at which it was concerned 
by the pattern of spending. Im not satisfied MoneyGram was obligated to do any more than 
this at the time the scam occurred.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr H but, considering MoneyGrams obligations and 
the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think MoneyGram have acted unfairly.
My provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold this complaint about MoneyGram International Limited.
MoneyGram agreed with my provisional decision. Mr H didnt and raised a number of 
additional points, which Ive summarised below:
- He disputes the claim he was blocked from making further payments and wants evidence 
this took place. 
- Hes unhappy with the suggestion that he asked friends to make payments on his behalf 
after the date he was allegedly blocked.
- In any case, he argues that a block, if applied, was not effective as it continued to allow 
payments to be received by the fraudsters. 
- MoneyGram ought to have recognised that one of the most frequent recipients of the 
payments was fictitious and by not doing so theyve failed in their duty of care to him.  
- He argues that the services he instructed MoneyGram to carry out includes actual 
delivery of the money to the correct person.
- He disputes that MoneyGram ever questioned him about a £300 transaction in October 
2013. 
- Hes unhappy with the suggestion that he used different agents to avoid detection  
having already explained why he did this.
- He again questions why the U.S. Department of Justice did not include transactions 
made from outside of the U.S. in their redress scheme.
- Hed like to know who is responsible for ensuring the integrity of transactions carried out 
in the place the funds were collected.
- Hed also like to know if he is still blocked from using MoneyGrams service and if he is, 
when such a limitation will be lifted and whether he will be notified of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter, but in this case I need to decide 
whether MoneyGram acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H when he made 
payments to a fraudster, or whether it shouldve done more than it did. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I think MoneyGram did enough and nothing Mr H has said has 
altered my opinion. However, I will provide further comment on some of the key points Mr H 
has made in response to my provisional decision.
I note Mr Hs comments in relation to the Department of Justice, but I think he understands 
that this issue is outside of the scope of this complaint for the reasons Ive already explained. 
And in relation to Mr Hs comments about MoneyGrams failure to recognise that the 
recipient of many of his payments was fictitious, Ive already explained in my provisional 
decision why this is outside of the scope of our service to consider and why MoneyGrams 
responsibilities to him do not extend to the collection of the money by the recipient. Mr H has said he is unhappy with the suggestion that he used different agents to avoid 
detection. However, that isnt a finding Ive made. Ive said that I dont dispute Mr Hs 
reasons for doing this, but that Im mindful that using different agents wouldve likely made it 
more difficult for MoneyGram to spot Mr H might be at risk of financial harm. 
Mr H has disputed that MoneyGram spoke to him after he attempted to make a payment of 
£300 on the only occasion he used its online service. However I remain satisfied that 
MoneyGram did have a conversation with Mr H in relation to this payment on 10 October 
2013. MoneyGrams records, though limited, show a phone call where the payment was 
discussed. The notes of that call say sending to a friend. $$ to catch a flight. 
Mr H has disputed that a block was put in place to prevent him from making further 
payments, so I provided evidence of this to Mr H in advance of my final decision. That 
evidence is in the form of a record of a dummy transaction carried out by MoneyGrams 
fraud and compliance department on the morning of 8 February 2014 to check whether a 
block had successfully been applied to prevent Mr H from sending any more payments. I 
explained that, while not conclusive evidence of the block, it does show that MoneyGram 
were taking action in relation to his use of the service on 8 February 2014. Its also 
consistent with MoneyGrams other submissions and the fact Mr H did not make any 
payments himself after that date. So, Im persuaded, on balance the block was applied as 
MoneyGram have said. 
I also think its more likely than not Mr H was aware that he was unable to use MoneyGrams 
services. I know Mr H is unhappy with the suggestion that he asked friends to make 
payments on his behalf after 7 February 2014 in a deliberate attempt to circumvent 
MoneyGrams block on his use of their service. However, it is a finding of fact that, after 7 
February 2014, Mr H did not make any more payments, but his friends did on his behalf. 
This does suggest Mr H knew he couldnt use MoneyGrams service after that date (though I 
accept theres no evidence that the specific reasons for the block were ever communicated 
to him).
I accept Mr Hs comments that the block didnt prevent him from losing more money, but as 
Ive already explained, as the payments which followed the block were not carried out by 
him, I cannot consider them as part of this complaint. 
Finally, I do not know whether Mr H is still blocked from using MoneyGrams services. This is 
something hed need to approach MoneyGram directly about. Im also unable to advise him 
how to bring a complaint against MoneyGrams operations in another country.
Overall, at the time the payments were made, I remain satisfied MoneyGram did have 
systems in place to look out for fraud. And taking into account what MoneyGram did and the 
way firms obligations have changed over time, as well as the particular circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied MoneyGram did enough to try to protect Mr H from financial 
harm and I dont think it was obligated to do any more than this at the time the scam 
occurred.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about MoneyGram International Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman