DRN-2208000
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC carried out multiple hard credit searches when 
he applied for a mortgage.
 
What happened
 I wont go into the full timeline of this complaint as its lengthy, and neither side has disputed 
it.
In February 2019 Barclays - in response to a complaint from Mr S - offered to remove trace 
of a credit search it had undertaken in January 2019 when Mr S extended his mortgage 
offer. It said, whilst it hadnt done anything wrong, it would remove it as a gesture of goodwill.
In April 2019 funds were released to the solicitor despite it trying to cancel completion 
because associated help-to-buy funds werent ready to be released. The funds were 
returned which led to Barclays rekeying the application, triggering another hard credit 
search.
The funds were released again about two weeks later and the mortgage completed.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr S complained to Barclays again. Barclays responded 
in May 2019. The complaint handler  in their final response letter  said At one point in the 
call, you were transferred to a manager [managers name], whilst speaking with him you ask 
if a credit search will be carried out. [Manager] confirms no credit search will be completed 
as the application is just being rekeyed The complaint handler confirmed, however, that 
the search wouldnt be removed as it was fairly carried out but offered to pay £75 
compensation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld; he said Barclays should stand by 
its offer to remove the January 2019 search (which was still showing on Mr S credit file) and 
should remove the April 2019 one as there had been no need for a new hard credit search to 
be carried out at that time. Barclays didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Barclays that it shouldnt have offered to remove the credit search that was 
carried out in January 2019 as that search did need to be done, and Barclays did nothing 
wrong in carrying out it. But as Barclays  in its response to the first complaint  offered to 
remove it, it is only right that it stands by that offer.
I also agree with our investigator that the April 2019 search shouldnt have been carried out. 
At that point there was a valid mortgage offer that still had a few months to run. Had 
Barclays not released the funds to the solicitor, with the funds being immediately returned, 
then the application wouldnt have been rekeyed and a new credit search wouldnt have 
been undertaken. 
Im not going to apportion blame for that failed completion, other than to say it wasnt of 
Mr S doing. This should have been a purely administrative function to put Mr S application 
back in the position it would have been in had the first completion not failed, so it was ready 
to complete again when things were resolved between Barclays and the solicitor. It is 
inherently unfair for a further search to have been recorded on Mr S credit file that wasnt 
required, and had been carried out just because completion needed to be delayed by a 
couple of weeks but the funds had been released.
It seems Barclays is now arguing that the April 2019 search shouldnt be removed because it 
made an error in offering to remove the January 2019 one; that is, it believes one search 
should remain so it is putting its January 2019 error right by refusing to remove the April 
search. Im sure Barclays can now see  looking at this from a distance  how unfair that 
argument is. The April 2019 search shouldnt have been undertaken therefore it must be 
removed from Mr S credit file. The fact that leaves neither search showing is irrespective; 
Barclays cant say it shouldnt do the right thing for the April 2019 search, to make up for its 
mistake with the January 2019 search. 
If Barclays hadnt offered to remove the January 2019 search I wouldnt be ordering it to do 
so, but thats irrelevant as it did offer to do that so should have done it when it said it would. 
Here all Im considering is the April 2019 search, and having considered everything Im 
satisfied that shouldnt have been recorded as a hard search on Mr S credit file and so I 
order Barclays to remove it.
In terms of compensation, Barclays initially offered £75, which it increased to £100 and more 
recently it agreed to the £150 put forward by our investigator. Mr S says it isnt about the 
compensation as he intends donating that to charity, he is unhappy that Barclays said it 
would do one thing and did another. Having considered everything, Im satisfied the £150 
recommended by our investigator is fair compensation.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to;
Remove the April 2019 hard credit search from Mr S credit file, and
Pay a total of £150 compensation (less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman