DRN-4030837
The complaint
Miss C complains about the service she got from Lloyds Bank PLC when she contacted it for 
assistance.
What happened
The background facts of this case are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in 
detail here.
Miss C says she called Lloyds around May/June 2020 during the pandemic while she was 
having financial difficulties in respect if her credit card and overdraft. She says this call she 
had with the advisor (Call A) did not go well and it meant she didnt get the support she 
needed.
Miss C says that because she didnt get the support she needed she has paid two years of 
unnecessary interest payments which could have been avoided.
Miss C says that in Spring 2022 her finances were in a mess and she was facing near 
bankruptcy and the lack of support previously from Lloyds was the main contributing factor. 
Miss C says she cant believe she received such bad service in 2020 and that contributed 
directly to her more recent debt situation.
Lloyds said it could not find a record of Call A. So it didnt accept what Miss C had said.
Our investigator was persuaded by Miss Cs testimony that the call likely did happen and 
that she was provided with poor service (which she awarded £150 compensation for). 
However, she was not persuaded the call was fairly responsible for her current situation. She 
noted any payment plan would not necessarily have forgiven her interest or avoided other 
adverse consequences such as an impact on Miss Cs credit record. She thought Miss C 
had reasonable opportunity to get support by alternative means at the time too. 
Lloyds disagrees with the award made by our investigator. In summary, it says it is unable to 
find the call record for Call A and points to evidence from Miss C that indicates she had 
complained about not being able to get through by phone prior to October 2020. So it 
questions if the call took place.
Miss C says:
If during Call A the options were properly explained she would have made 
arrangements that would have avoided her later financial difficulties which has led to 
her paying thousands in interest.
Since her recent interactions with Lloyds in September 2022 she has been offered 
various holds to give her time to sort things out  if she had that back on Call A and 
offered a hold it would have prevented the spiralling debt and she would have 
recovered. The situation has cost her a great deal of time, money and stress and has 
impacted her credit file.
She thinks Lloyds doesnt have a record of Call A because its systems were not 
working properly or overloaded due to the pandemic. She says she tried to get 
through afterwards and couldnt and also was not able to contact via other methods 
like webchat and branch visits.
She says Call A caused her to be scared of speaking to Lloyds and it wasnt until 
2022 she realised she should have actually had totally different service. She says 
because of this it had a detrimental impact on her sense of wellbeing and caused 
anxiety.
To put things right she would like further favourable re-financing options, refunds of 
interest payments, compensation for the impact on her wellbeing and adverse 
information on her credit file reversed.
The matter has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties but I wont be commenting on it all. 
This is not intended as a discourtesy to either party but simply reflects my role resolving 
disputes informally.
I note Miss C has complained about other things to Lloyds relating to her finances including 
some recent events. However, I understand this complaint centres on the events 
surrounding Call A and the likely long term impact on her finances of not being able to 
arrange a temporary debt solution around this time. So it is this which I will focus on here 
and the other issues will need to be dealt with separately.
Firstly, can I say I am very sorry to hear about Miss Cs ongoing financial difficulties. I hope 
her situation improves going forward. However, like our investigator I dont think it fair to 
make the sort of award she wants here. I will explain why.
The difficulty here is the focal point of Miss Cs complaint relates to a call which Lloyds has 
not been able to recover. This presents questions as follows:
Did the call happen?
What was said on it if it did?
Where things are not clear I consider what is likely to have occurred on the balance of 
probabilities. Miss C has provided a credible account of the call which she says took place with Lloyds 
around the middle of 2020. Her account of this call is very detailed and she has maintained it 
throughout her communications. Miss C clearly feels very strongly about the call and from 
her testimony I consider it unlikely that the call didnt happen. While I accept that Lloyds has 
said it has looked extensively for the call I think it is not unreasonable to consider the 
possibility the call record was either lost or improperly recorded. Considering this call would 
have taken place at the height of the pandemic where there was arguably more technical 
and resource pressures on firms this could have feasibly increased the likelihood of this 
occurring. And while I note Lloyds has pointed to later communications with Miss C where 
she says she had difficulties getting through  I dont think this clearly shows that she 
accepts that she didnt speak to anyone prior to October 2020  only that she had difficulties 
calling about particular issues. So on balance, I am persuaded Call A did take place.
The lack of records here makes it difficult for me to say what took place on Call A. However, 
Miss C has provided a detailed account. And Lloyds has also explained how it trains its call 
handlers and what likely would have taken place.  So I have used this information to 
determine what I think has occurred on the balance of probabilities.
Miss C has been consistent throughout that she felt the call handler treated her poorly and 
was aggressive in his manner. She felt he wasnt as sensitive or as helpful as he could have 
been. She also says he kept yelling at her that she was bankrupt and this made her think 
the situation was much worse.
At a fundamental level based on the strong and compelling testimony from Miss C I am 
persuaded this call didnt go as well as it could have. Miss C has provided a persuasive 
account of how the call handler made her feel  and I dont think she would have said 
everything she has done if he had approached things in a more sensitive way, and been 
clearer about how Lloyds could help. While I appreciate Lloyds was under a lot of pressure 
during this time  Miss C was clearly experiencing a level of anxiety about her finances and 
was relying on the call handler for support. Her testimony convinces me that she didnt get 
treated as well as she should have been.
However, in considering mitigation here I also have to account for the other things which 
Miss C has said. In particular she has said the quality of the line wasnt good, and that she 
had trouble understanding the call handler. So although, and on balance, I am persuaded his 
manner was not as good as it could have been (and upset Miss C unnecessarily during what 
was already a stressful situation for her) I think that some things were likely a matter of 
crossed wires rather than an attempt to give Miss C advice on bankruptcy status in the way 
she has described. Lloyds said its agents are not trained to talk like this and it seems quite 
unlikely an agent would try to convince a consumer they are bankrupt. I am not saying this is 
not what Miss C recalls hearing  but I do think the communication issues likely caused 
some misunderstanding (and also perhaps led to the agent talking more loudly than usual).
All things considered, as I have said I do think the call likely could have gone better and it 
would be fair for Lloyds to accept some responsibility for that as I am not persuaded the 
agent handled things as sensitively as he could have. However, as I have said I think there 
was also likely a level of misunderstanding about some things that were said  which was 
likely not fairly down to the agent here.Considering the guidance on our website as to awards for distress and inconvenience I have 
thought about a fair award for the customer service received here. It is a difficult one as I 
dont have Call A to base my award on. I also acknowledge that the line was poor which has 
no doubt contributed to the experience Miss C had here. However, I also factor in here that 
Miss C was calling about a particularly sensitive and stressful matter and note her 
compelling description of the way she individually felt treated as a result of the poor service. 
This has amplified the award somewhat. Compensation is not a science but I consider that 
£150 as recommended by our investigator is a fair award here in the circumstances.
A big part of Miss Cs complaint is how Call A has gone on to impact her financial health long 
term. As a result she wants substantial amount of interest refunded and other things like 
amendments to her credit score. However, for similar reasons to our investigator I dont 
consider it fair to make an award for this aspect of the complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, as our investigator has indicated  even if Miss C had arranged some debt solution 
on Call A (or around the time) I think it is unlikely that it would have meant Miss C would not 
have paid any interest going forward and/or not had adverse information on her credit file. 
For example, although firms were offering pandemic payment holidays at the time in 
accordance with the guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) interest could still 
accrue in arrears which would need to be cleared later. And other options at the time would 
have likely had adverse credit file implications that could have impacted Miss C (including in 
respect of her self-employment). So it wasnt a clear case of a debt forbearance option 
offering a clean solution or a guarantee that Miss C would not face financial difficulty going 
forward. 
I know Miss C has indicated the short hold she wanted would have allowed her to get back 
on track and prevented her later difficulties. However, there are several variables here in 
respect of Miss Cs self-employment, the pandemic and her personal circumstances that 
make it difficult to accept Lloyds actions are fairly the direct cause of her latter situation. 
In summary, in regard to causation, I am not persuaded that in not organising a debt solution 
on Call A (or around the time) Lloyds have likely caused Miss C financial difficulties or 
additional debt that she otherwise would not have had. Furthermore, I think it is difficult to 
accept that the many knock on effects which Miss C has described are a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of her not arranging a short hold at that time either.
However, even if I were to accept Miss Cs current situation is a likely and reasonably 
foreseeable result of not organising a debt solution on Call A (which I dont) I also would not 
uphold this aspect of Miss Cs complaint in any event. Our investigator has focused on Miss 
Cs ability to mitigate the potential impact here by trying to follow up on Call A. And I agree 
with this.
Although Miss C does describe the difficulty in calling Lloyds back and I acknowledge that 
this was no doubt more difficult during the pandemic I am not convinced it was impossible for 
Miss C to have contacted someone much sooner about this issue whether by phone or in 
writing.  Furthermore, I note Miss C accepts that during Call A the agent offered to pass her 
to the collections team (presumably to discuss debt solutions further) and also offered to 
(and apparently did) raise a complaint for her. Miss C says she didnt want to do either of 
these. But it seems Miss C could have reasonably taken the opportunity to have spoken to 
other people at Lloyds to explore debt solutions or escalate how she felt about Call A. I 
conclude this noting she said in her testimony (in respect of her experience with what the 
agent on Call A told her) even then I could sense it was wrong.Furthermore, Miss C says she received several letters about the complaint the agent raised 
on her behalf on Call A but chose not to follow it up at the time. However, this offered 
another reasonable avenue to escalate matters with Lloyds. I acknowledge what Miss C has 
said about how Call A made her feel about Lloyds  but she has also indicated she 
continued to try and contact them after this, and I also note a complaints avenue would be a 
suitable route to escalate the concerns about Call A. 
All things considered, while I am sympathetic to the ongoing difficulties Miss C has described 
with her finances I am unable to fairly award more than the £150 our investigator has 
recommended here. While I accept, on balance Miss C received poor customer service on 
Call A I dont think this is more likely than not to have directly caused later difficulties or the 
financial loss she has described. Nor am I persuaded, in any event (and despite the likely 
difficulties with getting through on the phone at the time) that Miss C was not reasonably 
able to mitigate the situation around the time in any event.
 
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay compensation as I have directed below in the event Miss C accepts my 
decision. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman