DRN-4108870
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Covea Insurance Plc settled his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr H took out motor insurance through Covea. In December 2022 Mr Hs car was damaged 
as a result of poor weather conditions, and he made a claim against his motor insurance 
policy. Mr Hs car was deemed beyond economical repair  a write off . Covea offered to 
settle his claim based on the pre accident valuation (PAV) of his car. But  Mr H wasnt happy 
about the valuation they offered him. He made several calls to Covea, and they reconsidered 
the offer. Covea increased the PAV from their first offer of £1,025, to £1,127.50, to £1,400 
and finally £1,790. 
Mr H accepted the final PAV amount, but he wanted his car returned to him, Covea agreed 
to sell the salvage. But Mr H said that the way they calculated the salvage wasnt fair as the 
amount increased alongside his PAV offer. This meant the amount deducted from his PAV 
was more each time his valuation was increased from around £185, to £203, £252 and 
£322.80 respectively. Mr H didnt think this was fair as he said the salvage should be static, 
a onetime amount, once offered it shouldnt be increased. Mr H also said when hed called 
Covea theyd tried to dissuade him from seeking a higher valuation for his car. 
Mr H complained to Covea he said theyd acted without integrity in trying to offer him a low 
PAV, asking too much for the salvage and in providing poor customer service.  
Covea said they normally used the business standard guides for calculating the PAV but this 
hadnt been possible, so theyd calculated Mr Hs PAV by online comparison. They said their 
process for calculating the sale of salvage is percentage based, with the percentages 
calculated on a valuation band. For Mr H the valuations for his car fell within the 18% band. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Coveas response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said it wasnt unusual to see some movement on a PAV offer, but the 
process had caused Mr H some unnecessary distress and inconvenience, he said Covea 
should pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for this. He said a call Mr H had with Covea, while 
he said the agent had tried to explain the process to Mr H they could have handled it better, 
and he asked Covea to pay Mr H £50 to compensate him for this.  But he didnt think Covea 
had acted unfairly in applying their business process for calculating the sale of salvage.
Mr H didnt agree he said Covea had been duplicitous in trying to offer him as little as 
possible and had tried to pressure him into agreeing to a low offer. He also wanted an 
explanation as to how Covea can sell the salvage on a percentage basis. Mr H asked for an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his complaint, Mr H has made several points and Ive considered all of these carefully. 
But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is
to decide if Covea have dealt with Mr H in a fair and reasonable way.
Pre accident valuation
Mr Hs policy says: The insurer will not pay more than the market value of the car..
When an insurer is assessing the PAV of a car, Id expect them to use the retail figures 
published in the trade guides and to consider the condition of the car before the accident. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We usually find the trade 
guides are persuasive evidence because they are based on research of likely selling prices. 
Advertisements are less persuasive because they often contain asking prices that are higher 
than negotiated selling prices. The guides we generally use are Glasss, CAPs, Cazoo and 
Autotrader.
I can see the guide valuations for Mr Hs car ranged from £939 (Cazoo), £1,490 (Glasss) 
and £2,095 (CAPs), there wasnt a valuation available from Autotrader. I can also see we 
considered two online examples, £1,490 and £1,995 respectively. So, all the PAV offers  
made by Covea to Mr H fell within the range of the guides. And their final offer of £1,790 is 
within the higher end of the range so I think the final offer made by Covea is fair and 
reasonable. But they said they hadnt considered the guides when calculating Mr Hs PAV 
offer but had used a comparison of cars for sale online. The examples we saw showed a 
sale price of £1,490 and £1,995, so I agree with our investigator that Covea caused Mr H 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience in the way they reached the PAV for his car as the 
first offer they made was below the online comparators . Covea should pay Mr H £150 to 
compensate for this. 
Sale of salvage
Where a vehicles been damaged an insurer might decide it should be written-off. This can 
be because the insurer thinks its uneconomical to repair. Its not unusual for insurers to 
decide a vehicles uneconomical to repair once the repair costs reach around 60-70% of its 
PAV. 
Under normal circumstances when a business settles a total loss claim under a motor policy 
they retain the salvage (which means they take possession of the vehicle in its damaged 
state). Once the insurer settles a claim as a total loss, the vehicle belongs to them and its 
accepted that as the vehicle now belongs to them, they can charge a consumer for the sale 
of the salvage. So, when a consumer wants their vehicle back, as is the case here, its 
reasonable for the insurer to charge for that. Insurers will often have some sort of 
arrangement with a salvage dealer for disposing of the salvage and will receive an amount 
for each vehicle in accordance with the contract agreed. This is sometimes an agreed 
percentage of the vehicles PAV. So, as Mr H wanted his car back, I dont think its unfair for 
Covea to sell the salvage to him for what they would have got for it from their salvage 
agents, as long as thats not an unreasonably high percentage of the cars market value.
Coveas policy terms dont say what percentage of the cars market value will be 
charged where a policyholder wants to keep the salvage of their car. Covea has shown the 
band for Mr Hs car is 18% of the trade valuation, which taking into account the estimated repairs costs would be around 60% to 70% I consider is within the range of reasonableness. 
And so, I think its reasonable for them to deduct that sum from the amount offered to settle 
Mr Hs claim. 
Covea does have a duty to treat its customers fairly. Covea has shown its a commercial 
decision to base their sale of salvage on a percentage of the total trade value, which a 
business such as Covea is entitled to do. Provided the percentage fee isnt exceptionally 
high, which I dont think it is here, and they would apply this to all their customers in the 
same or similar situations, then I dont think Covea has acted unfairly or unreasonable. So, 
they can adjust the salvage fee to reflect the higher settlement sum as a percentage of the 
PAV.
Customer service
Ive listened to calls Mr H had with Covea. And I agree with our investigator, Coveas agent 
in the call 09 January 2023 tried to explain to Mr H that the scrap value of his car would be 
affected by the PAV as it was based on a percentage. Its clear from the call the agent was 
unsure of the precise percentage bands but I think he tried to make Mr H aware that the 
percentage applied to his PAV could see the sale of the salvage increase from 18% to 22%. 
Im satisfied the agent wasnt trying to pressure Mr H into accepting a lower valuation but 
was attempting to explain the sale of salvage process to him. A better explanation could 
have been given, and the agent could have checked the actual percentage bands that would 
apply to the PAV for Mr Hs car. To compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused, I think Covea should pay him £50. 
Putting things right
I know Mr H was frustrated with how Covea handled his claim, but I think its reasonable to 
expect a degree of inconvenience when dealing with an accident claim which by its nature is 
a distressing situation. But I think Covea in how they handled Mr Hs claim added to the 
distress and inconvenience. To put this right Covea Insurance Plc should, if they havent 
already done so pay Mr H in total £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Covea Insurance Plc to pay Mr H £200 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman