DRN-3240752
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
Mr B applied for a Vanquis credit card on 30 December 2017. His account was opened on 1
January 2018 with a £500 credit limit.
Mr B says he struggled to make the repayments as the credit limit was too high. He said
Vanquis didnt complete sufficient checks when accepting the application as he previously
had defaults and County Court Judgements (CCJs). He complained to Vanquis and said
that the lending was irresponsible.
Vanquis did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said that Mr B told them he was employed
with a salary of £18,500. Vanquis saw that Mr B had a total of unsecured borrowings
elsewhere of £200. Vanquis said they had seen the CCJs and the defaulted debt, but the
latest of these were registered 7 months and 21 months prior to his application.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. Our
investigator said he had noticed from Mr Bs credit file that he had recently taken out a
payday loan and this data may not have been available to Vanquis at the time of the
application. He said that even with the payday loan, he wouldnt consider Mr Bs £500 credit
limit to be unaffordable based on Mr Bs salary and external debt at the time of the
application. Our investigator also noted that Vanquis had seen Mr Bs adverse credit data,
but they considered the £500 credit limit for Mr B as affordable.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said his outgoings at the time
were causing him to struggle which meant he had to borrow from family and friends and he
took on other unsecured debt. He said the credit limit was not affordable for him and thats
why he was mostly at or over his credit limit from the opening of his account, often having to
pay extra charges each month.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Mr B, Vanquis needed to
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable
for him. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Vanquis said they did prior to accepting Mr Bs application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mr B had
gave them, such as being employed, earning a salary of £18,500 and they looked at his
credit file. Vanquis said that Mr Bs credit file showed he had external unsecured outstanding
debt of £200.
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Mr B had defaulted in the past and
had CCJs, but this was between 7-21 months ago when these were applied. So Vanquis
would have been aware that Mr B had previously not maintained his agreements. But the
data also showed he had no accounts in arrears, no repayment plans and that the adverse
credit data was at least six months old.
So Ive considered if the checks that Vanquis carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mr B was given. And despite the credit limit not being high in relation to Mr Bs
salary, Im persuaded there are other factors which should have persuaded Vanquis to make
further checks and Ill explain why below.
Mr B had previously taken a payday loan just two months before he applied for the Vanquis
credit card for £450. And he took another payday loan in the month he applied for the
Vanquis card for £450 and later in the month took a payday loan for £1,750. Around the
same time he also applied for - and was accepted for a third party credit card, which was
opened on the same day as Mr Bs Vanquis credit card. And he was accepted for third party
finance in December 2017 for £1,405.
While Mr Bs credit file may have not shown the unsecured borrowing yet, Im persuaded
that there was information available to Vanquis which should have prompted them to make
further checks with Mr B. I say this as Mr B had a CCJ within seven months of his
application. Given that the amount of the CCJ wasnt high (£1,600), this could indicate that
Mr B would struggle to pay back even a modest credit limit, such as the £500 credit limit
which Vanquis approved for Mr B. And he had defaulted on an agreement only 14 months
prior to the CCJs, which suggests that his financial situation wasnt improving. So for this
reason, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, Vanquis should have requested
information from Mr B to discuss his finances, for example, one of the things they could have
requested were his recent bank statements to validate Mr Bs income and expenditure.
I asked Mr B if he would provide his bank statements so I could see how he managed his
money at the time. Mr Bs bank statements show that between 1 October 2017 and 31
December 2017, that he borrowed credit with third party companies on three separate
occasions and he appeared to borrow money from friends, as he had previously told us.
Shortly before he applied for the Vanquis credit card he had a returned direct debit on his
bank account and his statements indicate that he had to borrow money from one
month to the next to meet his commitments.
So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen here that Mr B could not afford his
commitments prior to Vanquis accepting him for the credit card without him borrowing to do
so. In my view, this was unaffordable for Mr B. If Vanquis had asked for details of his
outgoings/bank statements as part of a proportionate check when considering his
application, then Im persuaded they would have seen the payments on the credit card would
not have been sustainable or affordable and Im satisfied they wouldnt have accepted his
application for the Vanquis credit card, based on someone who was clearly struggling to
meet his commitments and borrowing from multiple sources just to do so.
So, I intend to ask Vanquis to remove all interest and charges applied to the account and
recalculate what (if anything) Mr B owes from the initial amount he borrowed (taking account
of any payments hes made). As Im persuaded that had Vanquis completed further checks
which were proportionate to his individual circumstances, they wouldnt have lent to him.
They should also remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file relating to theVanquis credit card.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Vanquis had no further comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr B 
accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask Vanquis to refund all interest and charges 
applied to the account from the date the account was opened to the date of settlement. If this 
results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mr B, and add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a credit balance to the date of 
settlement and to remove any adverse entries on Mr Bs credit file relating to his Vanquis 
credit card. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the account from the date the account was
opened to the date of settlement;
If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mr B, and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a credit balance to
the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Bs credit file relating to his Vanquis credit card.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman