DRN-2898544
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) caused delays as it didnt use an 
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) product when he initially made a claim to replace a 
damaged windscreen under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ps car windscreen was damaged. He made a claim to AXA for his windscreen to be 
replaced under his policy. Mr P said he asked for an OEM windscreen as he wanted to keep 
his car in its original condition and was worried about the impact on his cars value if a non-
OEM windscreen was fitted. He said the OEM windscreen was important for the level of 
acoustic shielding and the look of the car.
AXAs appointed windscreen repairer advised Mr P that he would have to pay additional 
costs to fit an OEM windscreen. Mr P was only willing to pay £200 to have a OEM 
windscreen fitted, which is what he thought was the incremental cost when compared to 
fitting a non-OEM windscreen. 
AXA initially refused to fit an OEM windscreen, saying it was not part of his policy but said it 
would provide the exact same glass similar specification, with the only exception that it does 
not have the manufacturers stamp. The similar specification glass will be the exact same 
glass and will fit the vehicle back to its condition before your replacement.
In order to resolve the complaint, AXA did decide to find another approved contractor who 
could fit an OEM windscreen. Mr P was unhappy he wasnt provided the OEM windscreen 
initially and said he was unable to use his car for almost four months due to the delays, so 
he wanted to be compensated over £2,000 for the loss of use on his vehicle in addition to 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. AXA offered £30 compensation as a gesture 
of goodwill for providing Mr P with poor communication.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AXA offered to repair the windscreen 
with a non-OEM part which was in line with its policy and he didnt think the policy covered 
Mr P for any loss of use of his vehicle. Mr P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that he thought his policy should cover the replacement of 
his windscreen with one from the OEM. I have checked the wording of the policy and it 
states: we may choose to repair your car with parts that may not have been made by its 
manufacturer but are of a similar standard.
I think the wording under AXAs policy is clear, that AXA has the choice to use parts that 
arent made by the manufacturer, but of a similar standard. I know Mr P interpreted the 
policy to mean that it may be possible to get an OEM part fitted. I agree, the wording doesnt 
rule this out, but I dont think AXA has been unreasonable in declining to fit an OEM 
windscreen as the policy provides it the choice on whether it fits an OEM part or not, 
provided the standard of the part is not diluted.  As I cant see any evidence to suggest the 
non-OEM part was of a lower standard, I cant uphold this aspect of the complaint.
I have also considered what Mr P said about being without his vehicle. The policy sets out 
that it doesnt cover Mr P for loss of use whilst his windscreen was replaced. However, the 
delays in getting the windscreen were longer for Mr P due to the disagreement on what 
replacement to use. 
AXA said he had to pay the difference if he wanted an OEM windscreen. When Mr P 
decided not to pay the difference or to go for a non-OEM windscreen it caused the delays. I 
have considered if AXA were fair in asking Mr P to pay the difference. By fitting an OEM 
part, AXA would be providing a higher priced part than was set out in its policy, so I think it 
was fair for it to ask Mr P to pay a premium for this as it wouldve cost AXA more to provide 
this. 
Then AXA decided to provide an OEM part anyway, so I have considered whether it 
shouldve done this initially to avoid the delays. As I have said AXA was reasonable in 
declining the OEM replacement part, so I dont think its fair to ask them to compensate Mr P 
for these delays. AXA didnt have to provide the OEM windscreen, but finally chose to in 
order to try and provide Mr P with a satisfactory resolution to his complaint. Therefore, as it 
has delivered the service in line with its policy, I dont think its fair to ask AXA to compensate 
Mr P for these delays, so I wont be upholding this aspect of the complaint.
I do think AXA and its appointed contractors couldve manage the claim better. Mr P did ask 
for information in relation to the non-OEM windscreen that wasnt provided, probably to 
check that it was of a similar standard to the OEM windscreen. On this point, I do think AXA 
let down Mr P and it shouldve made him more comfortable with the equipment it was 
planning on using. However, on reading the complaint, I dont think it wouldve made any 
difference as Mr P seemed adamant he wanted an OEM part as he thought it may de-value 
his car.
I dont think compensation for this point is appropriate for the reason Ive given. Ive also 
considered that AXA did finally decide to use a different appointed contractor and did fit an 
OEM windscreen for Mr P. Under its policy, it didnt need to do this. I think AXA has been 
reasonable in its actions to try to resolve this complaint and meet its customers needs and it 
has gone beyond the requirements of its policy, so Im not going to ask it to do anymore. I 
think the £30 compensation that has already been offered is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK plc to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman