DRN-2604763
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Independent Financial Solutions, an Appointed Representative of Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited, trading as Lighthouse Group Financial Solutions (Lighthouse). 
Lighthouse is responsible for answering this complaint, and for simplicity I will refer only to 
Lighthouse from now on. 
What happened
Mr T applied for a mortgage in November 2005, and took out the PPI at the same time. 
Lighthouse said that it recommended the policy for Mr T alongside the mortgage application. 
Mr T said that the policy was added to the mortgage without his knowledge and consent.  
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr T at a monthly cost 
of £29.20. The monthly benefit was £687.00, and if Mr T had made a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Lighthouse has provided a substantial amount of evidence  I will not list all of the 
documents here, but it sent in copies of all of its documentation relating to Mr Ts mortgage 
application in 2005, and I have read and considered all of the submissions provided by 
Lighthouse and Mr T. I will refer to specific documents below. 
Mr T complained that the PPI was added to his mortgage without his knowledge and 
consent, and he referred to a document that he had signed saying that he didnt want to 
proceed with PPI. However, this was dated 2008, and seems to refer to a later discussion 
with his adviser in relation to a re-mortgage to another lender. Mr T had taken the PPI out 
earlier  in November 2005. 
I also have a further questionnaire completed by the adviser in 2008, in which it is stated that 
Mr T already had PPI, and which shows the benefit level and premium relating to the policy 
taken in 2005. This seems to me to be consistent with Mr T saying he didnt want a further 
policy at that time.
Turning to the sale of the PPI in 2005, Lighthouse sent in a copy of the advisers letter to Mr 
T dated November 2005  this contained recommendations relating to the mortgage product 
and associated insurances. The letter referred to previous meetings and discussions  it 
seems that Mr Ts mortgage application had previously been submitted to a different lender, 
but this application did not go ahead, so the advisers letter contained a recommendation for 
a different mortgage product, along with life cover and the PPI. The PPI details were set out 
in the letter, including the premium and monthly benefit. I should say here that the PPI was a 
stand-alone policy, that is, it was not one offered by the lender and wasnt tied to the specific 
mortgage.
Lighthouse also provided a copy of a personal mortgage questionnaire, signed by Mr T and 
the adviser in October 2005, in which it was stated that Mr T required PPI. I then have a 
copy of an application form and associated direct debit mandate relating to the PPI policy, 
signed by Mr T in November 2005. This form clearly shows the monthly benefit and 
premium, amongst other things. The premium was paid to the underwriter of the policy, so 
did not form part of the mortgage payment and wouldve shown up separately on Mr Ts 
bank statements.
From all this I am satisfied that Mr T was aware of the PPI and decided to take it in 
November 2005. I think he probably just doesnt remember doing so as it was all so long 
ago. 
Lighthouse advised Mr T to take out the policy, so it shouldve made sure it was suitable for 
him. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered  during 
the meetings that were mentioned in the letters. But I cant see that Mr T wouldve been 
affected by the exclusions and limitations. I have a copy of the policy summary - it looks as 
though this was provided to Mr T with the application form. And the cost of the PPI was set 
out in the recommendation letter and application form, so Im satisfied Mr T was aware of the 
cost (and level of benefit). Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for 
him.
Mr T said that he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of between six and 
twelve months pay  although I dont know whether this would all have been at his full pay 
rate. He said he had some savings he couldve relied on, and also that his partner couldve 
helped out if needed, but their circumstances couldve changed so I dont think their help 
couldve been guaranteed. 
Ive kept in mind that the PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim - most likely 
longer than his sick pay wouldve continued - allowing him to use his savings for his 
everyday living expenses. And I think Mr T could reasonably have wanted to protect an 
important commitment that was secured on his home. So I think the PPI couldve provided a 
useful benefit if Mr T couldnt work.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, as I can see he feels strongly about this, but my conclusion is 
that, on the evidence I have, I dont consider the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman