DRN-3443221
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his two
pensions to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
Mr D considers the advice was negligent and wasnt in his best interests.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 April 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out 
in that decision. I have reproduced the relevant sections of that decision below, and it forms 
part of this final decision.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why she thought it should be upheld in
her assessment. She sent both parties a copy of it on 14 February 2022.
In summary, Mr D had said that in 2016 he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing and
offered a review of his pensions. He said he was then persuaded to transfer two personal
pensions that he held to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Mr D had said he didnt
have any concerns with his existing pensions, but he was led to believe that the SIPP would
provide a better return.
The investigator noted that at the time of the transfer Mr D was in his early fifties and
married. She said he had no investment experience, a low capacity for loss, and a low
attitude to risk. She said he was persuaded to transfer his pensions to the SIPP and then
invest in Just Loan debentures. In May 2016 the two pensions were transferred to the
SIPP - in total just over £22,200 was transferred to it. The majority of the money was then
invested in the debentures.
The investigator said that she hadnt seen any evidence that the firm had completed a 
factfind or sent Mr D a suitability letter, so she was unable to assess the reasons why the
transfers were recommended. She said shed seen no evidence to suggest that St Pauls
Marketing had assessed Mr Ds financial situation, and whether he had any capacity for loss
if the investments were to fail.
The investigator said the investments in the debentures were a non-readily realisable
security, and presented significant risks. The investigator said that COBS 10 (Conduct of
Business Rules) required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Ds knowledge and experience
in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or 
demanded. She said there was no evidence to show that St Pauls Marketing did assess Mr 
Ds knowledge and experience.
The investigator didnt think the investments were appropriate for Mr D. She said she didnt
think St Pauls Marketing had acted in Mr Ds interests by persuading him to go into these
investments. And she thought that St Pauls Marketing Limiteds actions had caused Mr D to
transfer his pensions and invest in a product he would otherwise not have invested into. The
investigator said that she was satisfied that St Pauls Marketings actions had caused the
financial losses that Mr D had claimed.
Mr D responded to the investigators assessment to say that he had paid regular
contributions into the SIPP for a period, and he was unsure if the investigator had taken this
into account. Alexander David didnt provide any evidence or arguments to consider.
The investigator e-mailed both parties on 1 March 2022 explaining that the complaint would
be passed to an ombudsman to review and make a final decision. Mr D said he had nothing
further to add. No further evidence or arguments were received from Alexander David.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Ds original complaint or to the investigators
assessment of it. Alexander David hasnt disputed what the investigator said, or provided
any further evidence or arguments. Theres only very limited evidence available to establish
what happened at the time of the transfer (technically known as a switch) and investment.
In my experience its unusual for someone with Mr Ds background and experience to want
to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this type of investment on their own
volition, and without any prompting from another party. The limited documentation that is
available shows that St Pauls Marketing was involved in the transaction. Im satisfied that it
initiated the transfer and investment in the debentures. It was aware of where the investment
was going to be made and facilitated it.
Mr D has said that he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing and was persuaded to transfer
his two existing pensions. Hes said that St Pauls Marketing gave the advice to transfer, and
they made the investments. As explained by the investigator, Mr D said he hadnt got any
concerns with his original pensions, but was told by St Pauls Marketing that the SIPP would
earn more money.
The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance of the limited
evidence thats available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise
Mr D to switch his pension and invest in the debentures. And given the significant risks
presented by the investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mr D in his circumstances,
particularly as he has said he hadnt got the capacity to accept the loss of the investment 
and had a low attitude to risk.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr D, I think the evidence shows
it was involved in arranging the transaction. My understanding is that the debentures were a
non-readily realisable security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Ds
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or
service offered or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate
for him.
Mr D has said he had no other pension savings or investments at the time and Ive seen no
evidence to suggest that he had experience of this type of investment. The debentures
presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mr D given his limited
knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr D. I also dont think the firm met itsobligations under the regulators Principles for Business; it failed to act in Mr Ds best
interests by not ensuring the investment was appropriate for Mr D. And it failed to
ensure the suitability of its advice, which I think Mr D was entitled to rely on.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr D to transfer and invest in the
debentures, or if it had told him they werent suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt
have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr D to transfer and
invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Mr D has claimed.
For the reasons outlined above, I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. I went on to set out how I thought Alexander David Securities Limited should 
calculate and pay compensation to Mr D.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr D said that he accepted the provisional decision. 
Alexander David Securities Limited didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr D as close as possible to
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Mr Ds
existing pensions were invested in funds that provided a greater degree of risk than Mr D
has indicated he was willing to take or were suitable for his circumstances. I think with
suitable advice Mr D would have remained in his existing pension schemes, but switched to
an appropriate fund. So I think Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say
precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr D fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should compare the
performance of Mr Ds investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value
is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr Ds pension plan to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment shouldallow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax  
from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much it has taken off. It should also give   
Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment
name      status benchmarkfrom 
(start date)     to
(end
date)additional 
interest
SIPP Closed For half the Date of Date The same benchmark
investment: transfer the on the loss calculated
FTSE UK debentu as at 17 June 2019 to
Private res the date the SIPP was
Investors were closed. Then 8%
Income Total totally simple a
Return Index; redeem year from date
for the other ed - 17 of closure of the SIPP
half: average June to settlement date.
rate from fixed 2019
rate bonds
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date.
Fair value
This is what Mr Ds original personal pensions would have been worth at the end date hadthey grown in line with the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr Ds circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk.
And in his complaint Mr D has said that he was a low risk investor.
As I have said above, I dont think Mr D would have switched with suitable advice. But he
was invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than the low level of risk he says
he was prepared to accept. So I think its likely he would have switched to lower risk funds
if suitable advice had been given. I dont know exactly how he would have invested. But I
think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable
proxy for the lower level of risk that Mr D was willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, 
Alexander David Securities Limited should use the monthly average rate for the fixed 
rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates 
should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ds risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So the 50/50 combination
would reasonably put Mr D into that position.
It doesnt mean that Mr D would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort
of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr D on the 
basis as I have set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman