DRN-4389014
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Monument Life Insurance Dac has cancelled his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Monument wrote to Mr M in March 2023 informing him that the policy would be cancelled in 
June 2023. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because Monument had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and had provided Mr M with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr M disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has recently made reference to the new consumer duty on financial businesses that 
came into effect on 31 July 2023. But that duty is not retrospective and doesnt apply to 
complaints about events that happened before that, so it is not a relevant consideration in 
this case. However, when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am taking into account 
relevant law, regulation and guidance.
Monument stopped making the policy available to new customers in 2012 and so it was only 
held by existing customers who had taken it out before then and who had continued to 
renew it on an annual basis. Monument has now taken the decision to withdraw this product 
altogether.
Monument is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products 
and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of a business 
in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. Im only looking at whether Monument 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has undertaken the cancellation.
Under the terms of the policy, it states that Monument must give 90 days advance notice of 
the termination of the policy. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did this.
Mr M has a long-term chronic medical condition which he says puts him in the position of 
being unable to find replacement cover or cover at a reasonable cost. He says he would 
either like the cover to be reinstated or for all the premiums hes paid to be reimbursed.
Monument has withdrawn the policy and applied the cancellation across all of its remaining 
customers, so it wouldnt be in a position to reinstate it for Mr M. And Mr M was covered by 
the policy, subject to the prevailing policy terms, until the policy was cancelled in June 2023. 
So, its reasonable that he should pay for that period of cover.
I do have sympathy for Mr Ms situation and understand why he is concerned about the 
policy being cancelled. But Monument hasnt singled him out. It has cancelled the policies of 
all the remaining policyholders, in accordance with the terms and conditions. I appreciate the 
impact for Mr M could potentially be greater than for others. However, as it has applied the 
withdrawal across all of its customers, Im unable to conclude that it has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman