DRN-3142624
The complaint
Mr K complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited mismanaged his claim under his landlord 
insurance policy for damage to his home causing him financial loss and material distress.
What happened
Mr K took out a landlord policy with Fairmead, via intermediaries in December 2017. 
A car drove into Mr Ks tenanted property in November 2018 and he claimed to Fairmead for 
the damage. He said it took Fairmead a month to confirm he had a valid claim, and over nine 
months to receive any payment for the building works. He said he received final payments in 
mid-2020, but the claim was still open when he tried to renew his policy in December 2020.
Mr K said Fairmeads delays led to overdue loss of rent payments of £10,000 at one point. 
And losses of £1,500 mortgage costs as Mr K said he was unable to switch mortgage rates 
until he knew he had a valid claim. He said he paid increased insurance premiums of 
£4,000, as Fairmead was unable to recover £20,000 loss of rent (out of a total of over 
£40,000) from the third-party insurer. Mr K said his renewal premium for December 2019 
was over £1,000 more expensive than previously. Mr K also seeks recovery of the costs he 
incurred for his loss assessor.
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters and they visited Mr Ks property a week after the claim to 
see the damage. Fairmead accepted the claim in December 2018 and the basis for loss of 
rent payments was agreed. The loss adjusters appointed a surveyor to assist with the claim 
and provide a schedule of work. In early January 2019 Mr K appointed a loss assessor to 
assist him with the claim. A week later Fairmeads surveyor provided their scope of repairs.
Mr Ks loss assessor arrived at very different works and costs necessary for the repairs and 
submitted a scope at the end of February 2019, and so further assessments and 
negotiations were required. This caused delays but during this time Fairmead made periodic 
loss of rent payments to Mr K. Loss of rent was covered by Fairmead until mid-December 
2019.
In its responses to Mr Ks complaints Fairmead apologised for poor service and some 
delays. Fairmead said there had been delays at stages of the claim including for two months 
from December 2018 to February 2019 and then there were no updates to Mr K until March 
2019. In the months following, Mr K said there was still a lack of communication before the 
parties entered negotiations to determine the work required to conclude the claim. Fairmead 
offered Mr K compensation of £150 for the first delays and a further £100 for the next. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Fairmeads response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said there was little 
unnecessary delay and so she wouldnt ask Fairmead to reimburse Mr Ks mortgage costs. 
She said it was Mr Ks choice to appoint the loss assessor and as Fairmead hadnt caused 
any delays at this point it shouldnt have to cover the cost. 
The investigator said Fairmeads compensation of £250 was fair for the delays it had 
caused. She said we cant tell an insurer what to charge for a policy and the increased 
premium was in line with what Fairmead would charge other customers with claims of this 
age and value. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review his 
complaint. He said it was impossible to contact Fairmeads loss adjuster during the claim. 
And said it took Fairmead a month to accept his claim and have its surveyor contact him 
which was negligent given the damage to the property. He said Fairmeads records included 
comments about slow progress and the delayed claim and rent payments and meant he had 
to appoint a loss assessor and hed incurred increased insurance premiums at renewal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks complaint concerns the delays in the handling of his claim by Fairmead and the 
financial and distressing impact this has had upon him. Mr K claimed to Fairmead in 
November 2018 and received final payment in early 2020. 
Its worth bearing in mind that for complex claims such as Mr Ks where a number of parties 
are involved it is inherent that there will be inconvenience and that it is likely to take several 
months to resolve. My role is to determine if there has been unnecessary and avoidable 
delay and distress caused to the policyholder and what the impact of this might be. 
Mr K would like his increased mortgage and insurance costs and the loss assessors costs 
reimbursed. He says these increased due to Fairmeads delays. Ive looked carefully at the 
timeline of Mr Ks claim to see what happened. 
I think Fairmead responded quickly to Mr Ks claim in sending its loss adjusters and 
discussing his loss of rent. I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to take a month to consider 
and then accept Mr Ks claim and I note that Mr K appointed a loss assessor immediately 
after this. It was clearly Mr Ks decision to appoint a loss assessor and as I havent seen any 
unreasonable delays at that point, I dont think Fairmead should be responsible for the costs 
Mr K incurred. 
In early April 2019 Fairmeads loss adjuster confirmed that payment for the loss of rent until 
February 2019 had been made and Mr Ks loss assessors scope of work had been referred 
to its surveyor. Disagreement between the parties and a complaint from Mr K about lack of 
progress followed. Mr Ks loss assessor subsequently provided another scope of work and 
agreement followed in August 2019. Im pleased Fairmead apologised for its delays, but I 
think these were fairly minor and overshadowed by the delays due to the loss adjuster and 
loss assessor not agreeing costs. During this time Fairmead continued to make loss of rent 
payments.
I agree with Mr K that there were times when the communication from Fairmead couldve 
been better, and he struggled to gain updates from its loss adjuster. Fairmead could also 
have made the payments for some of the loss of rent payments more quickly. But overall, I 
think the £250 offered by Fairmead fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by 
this.
I can see that this was a very frustrating time for Mr K, and I have looked at the implications 
of the delay for him in terms of his insurance premiums and mortgage costs.Mr K said his December 2019 renewal premium, which was over a year after the claim 
incident was over £1,000 more expensive. He said this was due to Fairmeads failure to 
recover £20,000 in loss of rent payments from the other partys insurer. I think Mr K is saying 
that this artificially inflated the value of his claim for insurance records purposes leading to a 
higher premium. 
Within Mr Ks insurance policy is a clause that allows Fairmead complete discretion on how it 
pursues his claim concerning other parties, their insurers, and the recovery that it seeks. 
This is known as a subrogation clause and allows insurers freedom of movement in deciding 
on the pursuit of a claim. Having said this, it is obviously in an insurers interests to seek the 
maximum financial recovery of its costs from other parties. 
And so it isnt in Fairmeads interests not to recover what it can from the other partys 
insurer, and it is Fairmeads responsibility to provide accurate information to industry bases 
concerning the costs of the claim. I havent seen anything to suggest that it hasnt met this 
requirement. Should Fairmead be able to recover more costs from the other partys insurer 
in future the record of the cost of Mr Ks claim will similarly reduce and this may assist him in 
finding cheaper premiums. 
Our investigator checked Fairmeads approach to open claims in terms of renewal premiums 
quoted. As with all insurers, insurance is about risk and the perceived risk and any 
policyholder that makes a claim will be regarded as a greater risk compared to a policyholder 
that has not and their future renewal premiums and excess will reflect that.
Fairmead generates premiums using rating factors including the insureds claims history. 
This would have meant a loading would have been added to Mr Ks premium after his claim. 
Ive seen the amount of the loading and referenced this to Fairmeads underwriting 
guidelines. As a consequence, Im satisfied that the renewal quote provided to Mr K in 
December 2019 was correct and meant he was treated the same as any other policyholder 
in a similar position regarding the claim.  
I note that Mr K did not renew his policy with Fairmead in 2019 and he said he had to pay 
around £1,500 to insure elsewhere. Mr K had paid £860 premium at renewal in 2018. 
 
I agree with the investigator that Fairmead werent largely responsible for five months delays 
and the increase in loss of rent consequent upon this and so I don't think that Fairmead were 
solely responsible for the increase in the claim value. I havent seen any evidence of the 
increased mortgage costs Mr K said he incurred or that these were as a consequence of 
Fairmeads delay in confirming his claim. This was a delay of only one month and I think that 
was a reasonable amount of time for Fairmead to take to validate Mr Ks claim. And so, as I 
dont think the impact was significant, I dont think it would be reasonable to require 
Fairmead to meet any additional mortgage costs Mr K may have incurred. 
Having looked carefully at the records of Fairmeads handling of the claim I dont think it 
caused any significant delays. However, as I have said, Fairmead did cause some delay and 
could have communicated with Mr K much better. I have found its offer of £250 
compensation to be fair. If Fairmead hasnt already done so it should pay this to Mr K, unless 
he objects. 
 
Mr K has said he is considering taking legal action in support of his complaint. By rejecting 
this decision Mr Ks option to take legal action remains available to him.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman