DRN-3428403
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Bank of 
Scotland plc.
What happened
In 1994, Mr P took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. At the same time he was sold a 
PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on his mortgage for up to a year at a 
time if he hadnt been able to work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. 
Mr P says he didnt need the policy, but it was implied to him at the time of sale that if he 
took it then his mortgage application would be looked on more favourably.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold to Mr P. Mr P disagreed, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Ps complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P took out his policy in 1994. Unsurprisingly, given 28 years have passed since then, 
neither party has been able to provide any of the original documents. 
Mr P says that it was implied his mortgage application was more likely to be successful if he 
took the PPI. Later he told us that the policy was forced on him. Bank of Scotland says that 
the PPI wasnt compulsory and that taking the PPI wouldnt have had any bearing on 
whether Mr Ps mortgage was approved. 
Given so much time has passed since the application and in the absence of any 
documentary evidence which would suggest Bank of Scotland had misled Mr P, I cant fairly 
say that the PPI wasnt optional and Mr P didnt know he had a choice about taking it or that 
he was forced to take it. 
Bank of Scotland says that its likely it gave Mr P a personal recommendation to take the 
PPI. This means that Bank of Scotland had a duty to check the policy was suitable for him. 
Having reviewed Mr Ps circumstances at the time of sale, I think that it was suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr P was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. For example, 
Mr P didnt have an existing medical condition which might have been excluded from 
cover and he wasnt self-employed which may have caused problems if he wanted to 
claim for unemployment. 
Mr P says he didnt need the cover because he had six months statutory sick pay 
entitlement. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any statutory or 
contractual sick pay. And it would have done so for up to 12 months at a time. I think 
that statutory sick pay would also have been much lower than Mr Ps salary. So the 
policy provided useful cover if he hadnt been able to work due to an accident or 
sickness.
Mr P was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments so if he couldnt work there 
was no one else obliged to help out. He explains that he had £2,000 in savings at the 
time, which he thought was the equivalent of at least six months salary and that this 
would have covered his repayments if he couldnt work. But Bank of Scotland 
supplied evidence of Mr Ps declared income at the time of sale and it seems that his 
savings were actually worth between two- and three-months salary. So even though 
Mr P had some savings, I think he may have needed to use those for other essential 
expenses such as utility bills if he wasnt working. So the policy still provided a useful 
benefit. 
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr P all the information he ideally should have had 
when it sold the policy. But even if Mr P had been given all that information, I dont think hed 
have acted differently and not bought the policy. So, I dont think Mr P lost out as a result of 
anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ive set out above. This means Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman