DRN-3093516
The complaint
Mr Os complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his car 
insurance policy and refused to pay a claim he made on it.
All references in this decision to Skyfire include its appointed administrative agents.  
What happened
Mr O applied for the policy via a comparison website in December 2020. At the time, he was 
asked if his car had been modified and was provided with a dropdown list of modifications to 
select if applicable. Mr O replied that no modifications had been made.
Unfortunately, Mr O was subsequently involved in a collision with another vehicle and he 
contacted Skyfire to make a claim. Just over three weeks later, Skyfire told Mr O his policy 
had been cancelled from the start as it believed hed carelessly misrepresented the facts in 
response to the question he was asked about modifications when he applied for the policy. 
Thats because its engineers had inspected his car and found a vinyl wrap had been applied 
to it which changed its colour and appearance. Skyfire classed this as an after-market 
modification that, it said, would have led to it refusing to offer cover.
As a result, Skyfire paid the third-party claim and sought to recover costs from Mr O in the 
region of £15,600.
Mr O complained to Skyfire and then, when it couldnt resolve it to his satisfaction, to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. They felt Mr O hadnt made a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy since 
the wrap couldnt fairly be considered a modification as described to him by Skyfire. The 
investigator asked Skyfire to pay the claim, compensate him for a loan he took out to cover 
the cost of repairs on his own car, reimburse him for the cost of recovering his car and the 
third-partys vehicle (with interest) and pay him £350 to compensate him for causing 
unnecessary inconvenience and financial worry. 
Skyfire didnt agree with the investigators findings. It believed the wrap was classed as non-
standard paintwork and so should have been disclosed as a modification. Skyfire pointed out 
that Mr O had already advised the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) of the 
change, and so should also have told Skyfire in taking out the policy.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) potentially 
applies where a consumer answers one or more questions incorrectly in buying or renewing 
an insurance policy.
Where thats been established, its important to go on and consider, for example, what type 
of misrepresentation was made and what the insurer would have done with the application 
had there been no misrepresentation.
In my view, Mr Os complaint largely boils down to whether that first requirements been met 
 that is, whether he answered the relevant question incorrectly. If I find that it was answered 
correctly, then theres no need for me to consider the other aspects of CIDRA Ive 
mentioned.
In taking out the policy, Mr O was asked:
Has the car been modified in any way?
Mr O answered No.
Had Mr O answered Yes, hed have had the option of choosing one or more of the following 
modifications:
Decals/stickers
Side stripes
Badges indicating increased performance
Non-standard respray
Murals
Magnetic/removable signs
Non-standard paintwork
To determine whether Mr O answered the question incorrectly, I need to consider if the wrap 
Mr O had applied to his car could reasonably be described as one or more of the above 
modifications. From researching car wraps online, it seems to me that theyre a way of 
potentially changing the look of a car. They involve covering a car either wholly or in part 
with a vinyl film that goes on top of the paint and which can alter the look or simply serve as 
a protective layer. 
Mr O tells us he added the wrap to provide protection. Whether or not thats the case, I 
believe wraps can be distinguished from decals/stickers on the grounds that the latter tend to 
be much smaller and are often used to advertise or promote. I also believe it would be 
inaccurate to compare a wrap to having non-standard paintwork because a wrap is placed 
on top of the existing paintwork which generally remains unaltered beneath. Theres no 
suggestion, as far as Im aware, that Mr O modified the cars paint itself. 
Skyfire hasnt argued that any of the other options Mr O was given applied, and I think thats 
fair. As I understand it, none of those options would reasonably apply here.
I find it telling that Skyfire itself has wavered in terms of which of the two options in question 
apply in this case. For example, in its final response of April 2021 it said Mr O ought to have 
chosen the decals/stickers option, as the wrap amounted to a decorative sticker. On most 
other occasions, including in its submissions to us, Skyfire said it was reasonable to think 
hed have chosen non-standard paintwork as the correct option because anything other than 
the car manufacturers standard paintwork, including wraps, amounted to non-standard 
paintwork.This inconsistency within Skyfire leads me to wonder how Mr O  as a lay consumer  might 
have known whether to choose one of those two options when, it seems, even Skyfire cant 
decide which applies. In the circumstances, I think this inconsistency merely betrays the 
point that neither option applies in this instance.
Skyfire also says in its submissions to us that it was for Mr O to contact it if he was unsure 
as to how to answer. And that he should have known there might be an issue because hed 
already gone to the trouble of telling the DVLA about the wrap. But I think that misses the 
point that its for an insurer to ask clear and unambiguous questions at the outset. If an 
insurer doesnt ask questions that elicit the information it requires to safely assess the risks 
presented, then the consumer isnt responsible for any related problems that might follow.  
In summary, I believe Mr O answered the relevant question correctly and so I see no need to 
go on and consider the other aspects of CIDRA. It follows that Skyfire shouldnt have 
cancelled the policy and refused to pay his claim due to misrepresentation.
Im satisfied on balance that, had Skyfire not taken the action that it did, its unlikely Mr O 
would have had the need to arrange a loan of £3,000 or pay for the recovery of both vehicles 
involved in the incident. I think its fair that Skyfire should compensate him for the financial 
losses hes suffered in doing so.
Finally, I recognise that Mr Os likely to have suffered significant distress and financial worry 
as a result of being told his policy wouldnt cover his losses as he reasonably expected it to. 
The losses Skyfire expected him to pay were substantial at around £15,600. Not only that, 
he was unfairly told that hed seriously misrepresented the facts of his application and that 
his cover had been cancelled from the start. As a result of all this, it appears Mr O had little 
option but to borrow money to pay for the repairs to his car, which Im satisfied would have 
only added to his worries.  
As compensation for the non-financial loss its caused Mr O, I believe Skyfire should pay 
Mr O £350. 
  
Putting things right
Skyfire should: 
Pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions; and
Reimburse Mr O for the cost of recovery of both vehicles involved in the incident, 
adding 8% simple annual interest calculated from the date Mr O incurred the cost to 
the date of settlement; and
Compensate Mr O to ensure hes no worse off as a result of taking out his £3,000 
when compared with the position hed have been in had Skyfire not unfairly cancelled 
the policy and refused the claim. This includes Skyfire covering the cost of any 
penalties or charges related to the loan plus interest as above if already paid by 
Mr O; and 
Remove any adverse entries it might have placed on any internal or external 
databases in relation to Mr O and the policy; plus
Pay Mr O £350 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience its actions have 
caused him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyfire to take off tax from this interest. Skyfire must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
to put things right for Mr O as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman