DRN-3572705
The complaint
Mrs O complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) gave incorrect information 
when transferring a large sum of money.
What happened
Mrs O contacted RBS to transfer £45,000 to a solicitors for a house purchase. She was 
advised to fax the instruction to make the CHAPS payment. To send the instruction by fax 
Mrs O was advised to download a fax app and input all the details. 
Following this when Mrs O called RBSs fraud department regarding another transaction of 
£20,000 shed made digitally, she was told that RBS didnt accept instructions by fax. Mrs O 
thought she had been scammed and was very distressed. For reasons that are unclear RBS 
couldnt find the fax and Mrs O was left feeling lost as had no idea who had it with all her 
personal details. Mrs O took a day off work and visited an RBS branch where she 
successfully made the £45,000 CHAPS payment.
RBS acknowledged that it had given Mrs O incorrect information and that it did accept 
instructions by fax. Mrs O complained and RBS offered her £75 compensation.
Mrs O was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Os concerns and reached the conclusion that RBS 
had failed to manage the stress caused to Mrs O by giving her incorrect advice. They 
thought RBS should pay a further £75 compensation for the stress this caused to Mrs O.
RBS has agreed to our adjudicators recommendation but Mrs O would like more 
compensation for the worry its error caused her and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided what RBS has already agreed to do is 
a fair way to put things right for Mrs Ns complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mrs N has experienced and see if RBS has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs N back in the position they wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
Both RBS and Mrs O have confirmed the transaction has successfully completed and Ive 
not been told that the delay in the transaction taking place has caused any financial loss. So 
the question I have to ask is whether the total amount offered of £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by RBS providing incorrect advice is a fair and 
reasonable way to settle Mrs Os complaint.
And I think it is. As Im sure Mrs O is aware mistakes do happen. In Mrs Os case the 
mistake didnt lead to any financial loss and was over the course of a day. However, during 
this time Mrs O was understandably very worried she had been scammed out of a large sum 
of money. 
It was during a phone call between Mrs O and an RBS advisor when Mrs O was misadvised 
and started to think she had been scammed. Ive listened to the recording of the call and it is 
very clear to me that the mis information provided by RBS was the reason Mrs O thought 
she had been scammed and that from this point Mrs O was undoubtably very concerned  
and I think the advisor did little to alleviate her concerns. So, I think it is for this Mrs O should 
be compensated for.
Mrs O says she had to take a day off work in order to sort out the payments. Although this 
hasnt specifically resulted in a financial loss for Mrs O I have factored this in when 
assessing what the appropriate award should be overall for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. And Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that a further £75 payment (on top  
of the £75 already offered) in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by RBSs 
advisor providing incorrect information is it appropriate compensation.
As RBS has already agreed to pay this, I consider this a fair and reasonable way to settle 
Mrs Os complaint and dont require RBS to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I direct The Royal Bank of Scotland to pay Mrs O 
compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman