DRN-2066447
The complaint
Ms W made a claim to AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) against her buy to let buildings and 
contents policy. Ms W complained that AXA caused delays in the repair of her property 
which led her to suffer financial loss from not being able to rent out her property. For 
simplicity, the party managing the claim on behalf of AXA will also be referred to as AXA.
What happened
Ms W owned a property that she rented to tenants. The property was broken into which 
caused some damage to the front door. At the time of the break in the property was 
unoccupied as the owner was doing some refurbishments.
The police investigated the break-in and the house was secured. Ms W made a claim to AXA 
against her policy for the front door to be replaced. Ms W says that she contacted AXA 
following her return from holiday and a date was scheduled a few days later for her property 
to be surveyed and for a new front door to be sized.
Ms W said a second survey was arranged for a week later and she says this was 
unnecessary, as the size of the door was unchanged. AXA disagree, they said the second 
survey which took place a week later was required after Ms W decided to upgrade the door 
she wanted. Ms W disputed that, she said the second door was cheaper.
Following the second survey, the works to replace the door were booked in for two weeks 
later. On confirmation of the appointment, Ms W scheduled new carpets to be fitted 
immediately after so she could promptly market her home to prospective tenants.  
Three days after the works were booked in, the manufacturer of the door said they were 
unable to provide the door that Ms W wanted. Ms W chose a different door instead, but 
unfortunately this door would take an additional two weeks to be ready. This meant the 
appointment for fitting the door was moved back accordingly.
Ms W then rearranged her carpet fitter for 9 days after the door was fitted, which was the 
earliest date she could secure. After the carpets were fitted, Ms W immediately marketed her 
property to potential tenants. It took Ms W 30 days to rent out her property, with Christmas 
and New Year also falling during that period.
Ms W complained, she said there had been unnecessary delays in replacing her front door 
and this had a knock-on impact to her being able to rent her property and she says she has 
suffered financially.
AXA have already paid Ms W £50 compensation for delays, but Ms W had said this was not 
acceptable. Our investigator said there were some delays and inconvenience caused and 
that AXA should compensate Ms W a further £175 to what has already been paid. However, 
the investigator didnt think the delays caused a significant impact on Ms Ws ability to rent 
out her home and so didnt award any compensation for financial loss.
Ms W rejected the investigators view, Ms W thinks that she should also be compensated for 
loss of rent over 36 days due to delays in her claim. The case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how the period of this claim will have caused stress and inconvenience for Ms W.  
She will have been mindful that the delays pushed back her timescales to start earning rent 
on her refurbished property.
I have looked at the timeline of events and what has caused certain delays in the process 
and I am happy that £175 is a fair and reasonable compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience that Ms W has experienced.
In looking at Ms Ws complaint about financial loss, I am concerned about two things. Did the 
insurance policy cover Ms W for this type of loss?  Were all the delays caused by AXA and 
have they caused a direct impact on Ms W not been able to rent out her property?
I have looked at the insurance policy and it says:
"We will pay up to 20% of the buildings sum insured for any one claim for:
1. The amount of rent (including ground rent and management charges) you lose
Therefore, I do think the policy would cover Ms W in the event of financial loss. I cant see 
any exclusions to say otherwise. I can also see that AXA have confirmed that the claim was 
made just before the 60 days unoccupancy expired.
I now need to consider whether the delays were all down to AXA and whether this had a 
direct impact on Ms W rental income. I dont think they were, and Ill explain why.
There was a delay of a week in the timeline after the managing agent had been appointed, 
as Ms W was on holiday and couldnt be contacted. The process started when Ms W phoned 
AXA on the return from her holiday.
Ms W said she thought the second survey was unnecessary and it possibly could have 
been.  However, AXA said the reason the second survey took place was because Ms W 
changed the door that she wanted.  I dont think it is unreasonable for AXA to have wanted 
to re-visit to make sure there would be no problem in fitting a different door before they 
ordered it.
After the second survey the works were booked in and Ms W had planned for her carpets to 
be fitted. This then had to be re-scheduled due to issues getting a suitable door from the 
manufacturer. I can imagine that this would have been frustrating for Ms W as she was keen 
to rent her property out as soon as possible. However, I think its unfair for AXA to be held 
responsible for the manufacturer not having the specific door Ms W wanted in stock.
Ms W had looked at mitigating the delays by taking the carpets through a rear entrance of 
the property, but this wasnt possible due to the position and configuration of the doorways. 
Ms W also had the choice to market the property ahead of the carpet being fitted. I 
understand that her agent advised her to wait until the carpet had been fitted and I can see 
the benefits of waiting. Ms W acted on this advice and chose to delay marketing her 
property. I dont think its fair to hold AXA responsible for that choice.I have concluded AXAs delays havent been the only contributing factor in delaying the 
rental of this property and so AXA cant be liable for any financial loss claim.
Even if I had considered that AXA had caused all the delays, it would still have been 
uncertain whether Ms W would have rented out her property at a specific time. She had no 
contract in place with a tenant, so no certainty. Securing a tenant would have relied on 
someone specifically looking for that type of property and willing to pay the rental price at 
that time. As this is uncertain, I wouldnt have been able to find AXA liable for financial loss.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint. For the reasons I have given I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay £175 for trouble and upset caused. I think this is fair.
I do not think it is reasonable to ask AXA to pay Ms W for any potential loss in rental income. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman