DRN-1384856
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as TSB mis-sold her and her late husband, Mr B, a 
regular monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a 
mortgage in November 1995. She says the bank didnt explain anything about the policy to 
them; it was added to the account without either her knowledge or her consent. 
What happened
In November 1995, Mrs B and Mr B purchased a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage. 
The policy covered Mrs B only, in the event she wasnt working due to an accident, sickness 
or unemployment. The PPI cost £11.67 each month and wouldve provided a monthly benefit 
to cover their mortgage payments for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs B disagrees, so the complaint comes to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this 
complaint. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out almost 25 years ago and the policy was cancelled 
more than 20 years ago when the mortgage was redeemed in June 1999. So unsurprisingly 
neither party has been able to provide much detailed information about the sale. And in 
these situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mrs B has given her honest recollections from that meeting in November 
1995, but I have to accept that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont 
have any evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mrs B and 
Mr B didnt have a choice in taking it out. And Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer 
paperwork from this time and it clearly shows the cost of the policy and the fact that it was 
being taken out to cover Mrs B only. So, with the very limited information I do have and from 
what I know about Lloyds PPI sales around this time, I cant fairly say that they didnt have a 
choice about taking it. And I dont think it was added to their account without their knowledge 
or consent.
Lloyds wouldve recommended the PPI, I say this because this is how it conducted its PPI 
sales through TSB brand at this time. So, it had to take adequate steps to make sure it was 
suitable for Mrs B and Mr B. I dont know what the adviser said to them about PPI or whether 
Lloyds did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this, because 
even if the bank didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for them for the 
following reasons: 
Mrs B met the PPIs eligibility requirements, so was eligible for the policy. And Ive 
set out the PPIs costs and main benefits above.
 
Mrs B was working at the time and says she had some occupational benefits from 
her employer if she were off work sick. But if Mrs B couldnt work, nothing Ive seen 
suggests its likely they couldve paid the monthly mortgage and their other living 
costs once any work benefits she may have had expired.
 
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top 
of any other cover that Mrs B had. So, I dont think Mr Bs existing cover wouldve 
made the PPI unsuitable. And the policy wouldve allowed them to use any savings 
they may have had for other important things at what wouldve been a particularly 
stressful time.
 
There wasnt anything in the PPI that wouldve made it difficult for Mrs B to claim. 
She told us she was employed and in good health  so she wouldnt have been 
affected by any restrictions or limitations in the policy relating to unusual work or 
known health issues.
 
I dont know that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mrs B and Mr B 
before they agreed to purchase it. For this reason, Ive considered whether clearer 
information about the cost wouldve affected the decision to purchase the policy. But 
they did choose to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely 
they wouldve made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
 
So, taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs B and Mr B.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said about this when it met with Mrs B 
and Mr B in November 1995. So, I cant say its likely Lloyds did give them everything they 
needed to know before deciding to take PPI.
But did Mrs B and Mr B lose out as a result - would they have taken the PPI if Lloyds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
they wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on their 
home. And that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So, I dont 
think they lost out  I think they wouldve taken the PPI if theyd been given enough proper 
information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, if they decided that 
the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted the policy, they couldve cancelled 
it without penalty.
Taking everything into account, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman