DRN-3051739
The complaint
Mr H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) closed his Cash ISA
without his permission.
What happened
Mr H rang M&S to say that he wanted to pay in enough money to take his account balance
up to £10, then withdraw all the money. Mr H had understood that he could only make
withdrawals in £10 increments. The call handler told him he could just take out all the money
in the account, if he wanted, so Mr H did that instead.
Mr H complains that when he did this, M&S then closed his account.
M&S accepts that it didnt explain to Mr H over the phone that by taking all of the remaining
money out of his cash ISA, that would result in it closing. But M&S still says that the correct
procedures were followed when Mr H withdrew the funds. So it didnt think it had done
anything wrong by closing the account. It said that what it had done was in line with the
terms and conditions of the account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr H had asked to take
all the money out of the account, and although M&S hadnt said this on the phone to him,
that did mean his account would close. He said M&S had told us this was covered in the
terms of Mr Hs account. So our investigator didnt think M&S had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr H is also very concerned about a previous transfer of his stocks 
and shares ISA from M&S, but this complaint deals only with the closure of his cash 
ISA in 2018.
Ive checked the terms of Mr Hs cash ISA account, to see if they provide that taking 
all the money out will result in account closure, or, alternatively, if theres anything to 
suggest that the account can stay open, even though theres no money in it. The 
terms and conditions dont seem to me to deal with this point. And where terms dont 
say anything either way, I would expect that taking out all of the money from a cash 
ISA account, would mean that the account would then be closed.
Ive also listened to the call Mr H had with M&S. I think Mr H understood that he was 
taking all of the money out of this account. He initially wanted to top up the money 
into the account to reach £10, because he thought the minimum withdrawal was £10, 
so it does appear to me that Mr H was clearly intending to remove all the money in 
the account. And I think thats what he did.
I can also hear, on a later call, that Mr H said the cash ISA M&S wrongly closed for 
him, only had one penny in it when M&S did that. But I do think that Mr H withdrew all 
of the money in his ISA, I dont think he left one penny in there.
Mr H says M&S didnt have his permission to close the account. He says that M&S 
had no right to close his cash ISA with first notifying him of its intention to do so 
under contract law.
When our service looks at a complaint, we do have regard to the underlying law. But 
my overriding duty here, as set out in the rules that govern our service is to 
determine a complaint by reference to what is, in [my] opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case.
So I have to look at whether what M&S did, in closing this case, was fair and 
reasonable.
Ive set out above that when someone takes all the money out of an account like this, 
I would expect the account to close. So I need to think about whether theres any 
reason why, in this case, that wasnt a fair and reasonable thing to do. Is Mr H 
somehow worse off, because this account has closed?
Although Mr H now says that he didnt intend to close the account, and he said on 
the call he made to withdraw the money that he might transfer the account 
elsewhere. And he also ended this call by saying that he intended to look elsewhere 
for his investments next year.
Its clear from that call, and the others Ive listened to, that Mr H has been very 
unhappy indeed with the service that M&S provided. So it doesnt look like Mr H did 
want to keep an ISA account with M&S in the longer term.
And its not clear what Mr H feels he has lost because the account was closed. I can 
hear on a later call that Mr H was offering to settle a separate complaint, which he 
wanted £500 in compensation for, by M&S making a payment into his cash ISA. So 
Ive thought about whether he wanted this account to stay open for that. But I 
wouldnt expect M&S to pay any settlement into a cash ISA for him.
Ive also listened to a later call, where M&S said that he could open a new account if 
he wanted to, but he would have to fill in an application form.
I havent been able to identify any other disadvantage to Mr H from the closure of this
account, and M&S has said its happy to open a new account for him, if he wants. So 
I dont think that Mr H has lost out financially because this account was closed.
I do think that it wouldve been better if M&S had set out for Mr H that his account 
would close when he took all the money out, because it does appear that Mr H 
wasnt expecting this to happen. But it is still what I would expect to happen. And I 
havent been able to identify any financial loss to Mr H. Nor do I think that Mr H is 
prevented from holding an ISA with M&S now, if he does want to. M&S told Mr H on 
a later call that its happy for him to apply for another account.
Because M&S only did what I would expect it to do, and in particular, because I dont 
think that M&S has been unfair or unreasonable, I dont think that M&S has to reopen 
Mr Hs account for him, or to pay Mr H compensation in this case.I know that Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think M&S has to do anything now. 
And that means that this complaint wont be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
M&S didnt reply. Mr H sent a short reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H replied to my provisional decision, to say that he would send a reply in due course, and 
not necessarily by the deadline set out by our service. He didnt explain why he might need 
this extra time. 
Our investigator then wrote to Mr H to offer him an additional week to respond, and to say 
that if we didnt hear from him in this time, I would be likely to finalise my decision. Mr H 
hasnt replied further. I think I can now fairly reach a decision in this case.
In Mr Hs short reply, he said that he didnt think it mattered whether hed been financially 
disadvantaged by what M&S did. He said that the distress it had caused was unacceptable.
Ive explained in my provisional decision why I dont think that M&S made a mistake when it 
closed Mr Hs ISA. I do understand that Mr H continues to have very strong views about this, 
but I havent changed my mind.
Mr H also said that our service had everything on file about the unlawful sale of his shares 
by M&S. As I set out in my provisional decision, Im not able to deal with that complaint here.
Mr H said that he reserved the right to lodge a legal claim against M&S. If Mr H rejects our 
services decision, then his legal rights arent affected, and he may choose to pursue this 
complaint through other means if he wishes. Unfortunately, our service cannot assist him 
with that.
Im sorry to have to tell Mr H that I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman