DRN-3514578
The complaint
Mrs E complains MBNA Limited refused to stop a pending payment from leaving her 
account.
What happened
Mrs E had placed an order for a games console with an online merchant  AF. She gave 
her MBNA credit card details as the payment in exchange for the goods. Over the following 
day, Mrs E grew concerned that the merchant may not have been a legitimate business after 
her attempts to contact AF went unanswered. So, she contacted MBNA to stop the payment.
AF had initiated and MBNA had authorised the payment and so the required funds were 
earmarked on Mrs Es account, pending collection by AF. For this reason, MBNA was unable 
to accommodate Mrs Es request to stop the payment. It did, however, put a temporary block 
on her account to prevent AF instigating further payments. 
Mrs E disputes MBNA was unable to stop the payment leaving her account, pointing to 
consumer rights legislation and the card scheme providers rules.
AF collected the funds but it did not process a refund after the order was cancelled, nor 
provide the goods. MBNA later raised a dispute and refunded Mrs Es account for the full 
amount.
But Mrs E remained unhappy with MBNA being unable to cancel the payment, considered it 
had not complied with consumer law or the card scheme providers rules, and is unhappy 
with the time taken to resolve the matter. So, she complained and when MBNA did not 
uphold her complaint, she referred it to this service.  
Mrs E complaint was considered by one of this services investigators. She thought MBNAs 
actions were fair and reasonable and she also did not uphold the complaint. Mrs E did not 
entertain the investigators opinion as to the equitableness of MBNAs actions. And instead 
sought the Ombudsmans opinion as to the correctness of MBNAs application of the law 
and card scheme rules.
As the investigator did not think her complaint should be upheld and Mrs E did not agree, the 
matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by explaining that we were set up as an informal and free alternative to the courts. I 
make decisions on the facts and evidence available in each case. And, the decision I come 
to on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case may be different to 
what a court would decide applying legal rules.
It may also help if I explain for Mrs E that this service was set up to consider individual 
complaints, so its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to make findings about a 
businesss wider practices or processes  that is something for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to do, and they have the power to fine and punish businesses 
where appropriate. 
Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take 
into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
 (a) law and regulations; 
 (b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
 (c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, which is whether MBNA should 
have done more to prevent the payment leaving Mrs Es account. Having thought very 
carefully about MBNAs actions, Im not able to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the 
outcome Mrs E was hoping for. But in weighing everything up, I am unable to fairly say 
MBNA ought to have done more. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that MBNA is expected to process payments 
that its customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. Theres no debate that Mrs E authorised the payment in dispute. At the 
time she provided her credit card details, Mrs E wanted the payment to be made. Although 
she did not realise at this time she was dealing with a business that she would later discover 
was not legitimate. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are the overarching regulations that apply in this 
case  they prevail over the card scheme rules and MBNAs own contractual obligations.  
Regulation 67  consent and withdrawal of consent  and Regulation 83  revocation of a 
payment order  are the relevant considerations here and the full details can be found 
online. Regulation 67 dictates that Mrs E could have withdrawn her consent to the payment 
up until such point Regulation 83 dictates it cannot be revoked. And Regulation 83 dictates 
that Mrs Es payment could not be revoked once she had consented to the transaction. 
Put very simply, once Mrs E had agreed to pay AF for the goods, MBNA was obliged to fulfil 
the transaction. But it still could be disputed at a later point.
Mrs E has pointed to the card scheme rules and believes that the payment still could be 
stopped pending collection by AF in the event of an immediate fraud threat. The rule I think 
Mrs E refers to states:
An Issuer must evaluate each Transaction that has been properly accepted, processed, and 
submitted in order to make an Authorization, a Token provisioning, or other decision, and 
must not block, refuse, or decline Authorization Requests, Token provisioning requests, or 
Transactions in a systematic or wholesale manner, unless there is an immediate fraud threat 
  
In Mrs Es case, however, MBNA had correctly authorised the payment (because she had 
sufficient credit available to cover the amount claimed) the day before she first shared her 
suspicions about AF with it. In other words, it was already too late to stop the payment. 
Im pleased to note MBNA did raise a dispute and Mrs E has been refunded in full since bringing her complaint. Altogether, I am satisfied MBNA has met its obligations under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. I find it acted correctly and so I make no award or 
direction in respect of Mrs Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman