DRN-3680453
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), provided her 
with a catalogue shopping account that she could not afford, and continued to increase her 
credit limit when it shouldnt have.
What happened
In January 2013 Shop Direct approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of 
£600 for Miss C. It then increased that limit seven times until it reached £3,000 in July 2016. 
However, she never used the available credit, her highest balance being just under £1,300 in 
Spring 2015. 
By December 2017 Miss C had clearly run into difficulties maintaining repayments, and so 
her credit limit was reduced to £300 in February 2018, with the outstanding debt being 
ultimately sold to a third party later that year. Ive included a table showing the limit increases 
for ease of understanding:
Event Date New limit
Account opened January 2013 £600
1st limit increase November 2013 £850
2nd limit increase March 2015 £1,150
3rd limit increase May 2015 £1,400
4th limit increase August 2015 £1,700
5th limit increase November 2015 £2,000
6th limit increase March 2016 £2,500
7th limit increase July 2016 £3,000
Credit limit decrease February 2018 £300
After Shop Direct rejected her complaint, Miss C brought the case to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the evidence and thought that Shop Direct hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong. Miss C doesnt accept that, and asked that the case be passed to an 
Ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Shop Direct was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Miss C would be 
able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in a sustainable way. The 
rules in place dont require any particular or named evidence to be gathered. Simply that 
the checks be proportionate.
Shop Direct used a combination of high level credit checks and information about how Miss 
C had been managing her account with it in order to decide whether the credit limit increases 
were affordable. The adjudicator thought that Shop Direct should also have asked Miss C 
about her income and expenditure, and that by November 2015 it should have been 
completing a full review of her financial circumstances.
I agree with that, particularly noting the beginning of concerns about Miss Cs financial 
management in the autumn of 2015 when one of the credit checks suggested that some 
accounts were heading for early arrears. So from that point, more in-depth checks were 
clearly warranted.
I therefore need to go on to consider what Shop Direct would have found had it done 
further checks, and whether more evidence ought to have led it to conclude that the 
borrowing was not affordable for Miss C. To help me with that question, Ive had the benefit 
of seeing some of Miss Cs bank statements. Shop Direct could have decided to gather 
different evidence, but in the absence of anything else, I feel it is right for me to place 
weight on what the bank statements show.
In short, they raise no concerns which ought to have let Shop Direct know that Miss C 
could not afford the credit increases. Her account shows regular income, no overdraft, or 
any concerns such as gambling. She appears able to manage her money well.
Miss C says it is clear from her statements that she wasnt earning any money, which is 
true. However, she received regular income from various individuals, including her partner. 
So she had money available to her. There were no significant household bills coming out 
of the account, and she has confirmed to us that housing costs and utilities were covered 
by other people. So her expenditure wasnt substantial.
Of course I accept that ultimately Miss C wasnt able to manage the repayment on this 
account. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Shop Direct could have, or ought to have 
been able to, predict that from the available evidence. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think more in-depth checks ought to have led Shop Direct to conclude that this borrowing 
wasnt affordable.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Shop Direct doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman