DRN-4051590
The complaint
Mrs P complains she was mis-sold was pensioner bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc 
(B&G plc) she invested into. She says the bond wasnt suitable for her, due to the capital 
being at risk, and she was not told of this risk at the time of application.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs P invested in a B&G Plc Three- year fixed monthly income Bond. Sales of this bond
were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G plc, the
issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond. And it was
responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG
Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Ps investment in the bond
Mrs P says at the time of application she was a retired widow. She was in receipt of pension
income, she owned her own property, and didnt have any debts. She says she had around
£58,000 savings, which was all in cash - a current account, a fixed rate cash bond and NS&I
savings account. She had previously invested in another investment (with a large life
assurance company) but surrendered the investment after it started to make a loss, putting it
into the fixed rate cash bond instead.
Mrs P says she made the investment following a visit to her home by someone from a
business which she was told was acting as a representative of BG Ltd or B&G plc. Mrs P
says the representative turned up at her door unsolicited and explained to her the B&G Plc
bond and the monthly income she could get from an investment in it. She said she could
only spare £5,000 but the representative was very pushy and tried to get her to invest more
money by going to the bank and adding another £25,000. But she settled on £5,000 pounds
and wrote a cheque for him. She says the representative explained the policy verbally to her
and did not show her any information.
When Mrs P referred her complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings, but we have not been provided
with recordings of any conversations Mrs P had with BG Ltd before or during the bond
application.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs P
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
We have been given a copy of a paper application form and a cheque for £5,000, both
signed by Mrs P on 22 May 2017.
The application form is simply titled Investor Application Form and is similar  but not
identical to  BG Ltds online application. Section 6 is titled Investor Type. Mrs P was
recorded as an Ordinary (restricted) investor. The form says this is defined on pages 6 to 8
of the form. However, the copy application form we have been provided with does not
include pages 6 to 8.
Section 7 is titled Investor questionnaire. The text is the same as the JUST A FEW MORE
QUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) section of BG Ltds online application:
These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for you.
Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET &
GOLD BONDS?
The bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds
Yes I can transfer them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET AND GOLD BONDS?
is the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back at the end).
is dependent on movements in the financial bond and equity markets.
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
No, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested.
Yes, my capital is secure and I have no risk of losing.
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD
SHARES?
Yes
No
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN 
INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
That you should invest all of your money into a single bond.
That you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as other less risky
investments.
The spreadsheet we have been provided detailing BG Ltds records says the steps
Everyday Investor, KYC, T&C and Investor Questionnaire were each completed on 24
May 2017.
Mrs P says, after being visited by the representative, she received follow up phone calls from
BG Ltd to check she was receiving her income etc. But she has no further recollection of an
application process.Galliums response to Mrs Ps complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said Mrs P had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Ps
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
Our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld. They said, in summary:
They were satisfied Mrs P would have met the definition of a restricted investor, as
the amount she invested was less than 10% of her investible assets at the time of the
sale.
However, BG Ltds assessment of appropriateness did not comply with the FCAs
rules.
Had BG Ltds process met what was required under the rules and sufficiently asked
Mrs P about her knowledge and experience BG Ltd ought to have reasonably
concluded that Mrs P did not have the sufficient knowledge and experience to make
an investment in the bond appropriate for her. Mrs P was an inexperienced investor
who hadnt invested in similar products. All of the money she held at the time of the
investment was in cash.
If BG Ltd had given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to
allow Mrs P to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about Mrs Ps
knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to
conclude it should not have allowed Mrs P to proceed.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations.
Had it done so, Mrs P wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs P to invest. For this reason it was fair to uphold
the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs P for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
It notes the investigator accepts Mrs P satisfied the criteria to be classed as a
restricted investor.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations, were sufficient for
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs P made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and
did not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the
concentration risk. So, she would have proceeded with the investment regardless.My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. I concluded the complaint should be upheld. As Ive
set my provisional findings out again below, I will not set out any further detail here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs P accepted my provisional decision. Gallium did not respond.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions following my provisional decision I have
not been persuaded to depart from it. I have therefore largely repeated my provisional
findings as my final decision.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have
considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Its not completely clear how exactly this application was made. Our investigator found it
likely Mrs P had completed BG Ltds online application. However, considering the available
evidence, I think that is unlikely to be the case. Mrs Ps recollection is that an application was
completed when the representative visited her. So I think it unlikely Mrs P did complete an
online application. I think it more likely information was entered by BG Ltd onto its system
once it received the paper application form, and that is why its records say steps were
completed a few days after the paper application was completed.
I also think the evidence is insufficient to show Mrs P completed the form herself and/or was
given adequate opportunity to consider its contents. She mentions not being given information, and the representative being pushy. I dont however know how much  if
anything  BG Ltd knew of how the application came about. And so I appreciate BG Ltd may
not have known, if Mrs P did not complete the form herself.
In any event, BG Ltd had an obligation to ensure Mrs P was eligible to receive a promotion
of the bond before it proceeded and, in this case  whether it knew exactly how the
application came about or not  I have not seen sufficient evidence to show it could
reasonably have concluded Mrs P was eligible to receive a promotion of the bond.
Certification
As the relevant pages of the form appear to be missing, there is insufficient evidence to
show Mrs P saw the definition of a restricted investor (or ordinary (restricted) investor as
the form described it) and therefore had a full understanding of what the category meant.
4.7.10R requires the prospective investor to agree to all of the following:
In the twelve months preceding the certification date, not to have invested more than
10% of their net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To undertake that in the twelve months following the certification date, they will not
invest more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To accept that the investments may expose them to a significant risk of losing all of
the money invested.
To be aware that it is open to them to seek advice from an authorised person who
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
Mrs P may have been able to meet the first two of these as she was investing less than 10%
of her net assets and, as an elderly widow who did not want to take risk, was very unlikely to
be making any further investments non-readily realisable securities (not that, in my view, she
understood that is what she was doing here). But I think it very unlikely she would have
knowingly accepted accept that an investment in the bond may expose her to a significant
risk of losing all of the money invested. It seems she instead proceeded on the
understanding there was no risk.
In the circumstances I do not think BG Ltd should have proceeded without first checking Mrs
P was indeed a restricted investor and had a full understanding of that that meant. And I
think it likely such a check would have revealed Mrs P was not a restricted investor  and
that she did not fit into any of the other categories either. And so things should not have 
proceeded beyond this. 
Appropriateness
Even if there was a basis for BG Ltd to reasonably conclude Mrs P was a restricted investor
 either in reliance on the application form or after having checked with Mrs P - the rules still
required it to be satisfied Mrs P had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved. And, like the investigator, I do not think BG Ltd acted in a way
which was consistent with those rules.
The paper application form asked five questions which tested knowledge. These questions 
asked whether Mrs P knew if the bonds were transferable, if the return was fixed, if their 
capital was secure, if the bonds could be converted to shares and the meaning of 
diversification. Nothing was asked about Mrs Ps experience. And if Mrs P got a question wrong, she would be told her answer was wrong and prompted to reconsider it.
If Mrs P did know the correct answer to all five questions this only showed she understood
the bonds were not transferrable, the return was fixed, capital was at risk, whether the bonds
could be converted into shares and was able to select a correct answer from two options as
to what the definition of diversification was.
This falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mrs C had the knowledge to
understand the risk associated with the bonds  particularly in circumstances were the
multiple-choice options were limited to two. The risks associated with the bond were
complex and multifactorial. It was not, for example, a question of whether Mrs C simply
understood money could be lost  but whether she was able to understand how likely that
might be and what factors might lead to it happening.
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable to carry out the
assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been confident, from the
information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mrs P had the necessary experience
and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it
was not in a position to make such an assessment, based on the information it obtained.
Had the process been consistent with what the rules required - had Mrs P been asked for
appropriate information about her knowledge and experience - the only reasonable
conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mrs P did not have
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the bond.
Mrs P had limited investment experience and I have seen no evidence to show she had
anything other than a basic knowledge of investments.
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1 R said a warning must
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the
warning.
Here, as the test was inadequate, a conclusion the bond was not appropriate was not drawn
and therefore no warning was given. It follows BG Ltd did not have the opportunity to
consider whether in the circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs P wished to
proceed, despite the warning.
In my view a warning which told Mrs P clearly an investment in the bond was not appropriate
for her would likely have put Mrs P off proceeding further. That is a clear, emphatic
statement which would have left Mrs P in no doubt the bond was not an appropriate
investment for her. And she ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an
appropriateness test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore, had BG Ltd given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances
whether to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs P wished to proceed, having asked for
appropriate information about Mrs Ps knowledge and experience, it would have been fair
and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should not allow Mrs P to proceed. Had Mrs P been
asked for appropriate information about her knowledge and experience this would have
shown she may not have the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond.
In these circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it
should proceed if Mrs P wanted to, despite a warning.
All in all, I am satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably
when assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did it was not
treating Mrs P fairly or acting in her best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably tomeet the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mrs P would not 
have got beyond this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Ps
complaint on this basis alone. Even if I am wrong in what I saw about Mrs Ps certification as
a restricted investor she would still not have got beyond this second stage. The second
condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have proceeded
beyond this.
So my decision is that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. I am satisfied Mrs P would either 
not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had 
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs P for her loss.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs P
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mrs P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mrs P's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs P's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
It is also clear that Mrs P has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the
loss of her investment. Given her circumstances, this is money Mrs P cannot afford
to lose, nor is it money she is able to replace. I do not believe Mrs P foresaw such a
significant loss and I recognise the considerable worry she will have felt when B&G
Plc failed. I consider a payment of £350 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment name Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc Bond Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per year from final 
decision to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs P agrees to Gallium taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,then it may request an undertaking from Mrs P that she repays to Gallium any amount she
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs P's
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs P would have invested only
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman