DRN-2820099
The complaint
Mr H complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his home 
contents insurance claim following an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr H had home contents insurance cover with RSA. He contacted RSA on 25 June 2020 to 
make a claim for damage to his carpets, as an upstairs neighbour had an escape of water in 
February 2020 and water entered Mr Hs home. Mr Hs buildings insurer had taken some 
time to advise him that the damaged carpets would be covered under his contents 
insurance. 
RSA appointed a specialist to inspect the damage and a visit was carried out to Mr Hs home 
on 13 July 2020. On the same day, Mr H submitted a second claim in relation to the same 
escape of water, as he said he found further damage to one of his sofas and to several sets 
of curtains. An inspection of the sofa and curtains was carried out by RSAs specialists on 
3 August 2020. A second visit to Mr Hs home was also carried out later in August 2020. 
RSA cash settled Mr Hs claim in relation to the carpets and declined his claim for the sofa 
and curtains. It said the furniture specialists it appointed said the damage to the sofa was 
caused by wear and tear and not by the escape of water - it said there was excessive use of 
the same area of the sofa. In relation to the curtains, it said there had been no insured event 
that caused the damage  that they had been damaged by damp, caused gradually over 
time and this was not covered by the policy.  
Mr H was unhappy with RSAs decision and so complained to this service. He said he felt he 
was treated like a criminal when his claim was being looked into. Mr H said the sofa was less 
than three years old, in excellent condition and there had been very little use in the affected 
area. Mr H said the curtains were in very good condition and were well maintained. He wants 
RSA to accept his claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said it was reasonable for RSA to rely 
on the two expert reports, which both state that the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
Mr H did not agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
RSA turned down Mr Hs claim for damage to his sofa and curtains as it said neither was 
damaged by an insured event. And it said other visible damage happened over time, so was 
caused by wear and tear. So what RSA is saying is that it doesnt think the damage to the 
sofa and curtains was caused by the escape of water in February 2020. 
Ive seen Mr Hs policy documents and these show that Mr H is covered for escapes of water 
from fixed domestic water installations, as well as accidental damage. But each of these 
types of coverage exclude loss or damage that happens gradually over a period of time.
So what I have looked at here is whether RSA acted fairly when it said the damage to the 
sofa and curtains wasnt caused by the escape of water and that any other damage which 
happened over time wasnt covered. And Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly. 
But before I explain why Ive said this, its important to note that RSA relied on two expert 
reports when it came to this conclusion and RSA is allowed to rely on the expert opinions in 
both reports. When assessing claims of this type, insurers will almost always need to rely on 
expert reports. 
The sofa and curtains were inspected by RSA in August 2020, which is some time after the 
escape of water, which happened in February 2020. And this is because Mr H didnt report 
the damage to the sofa and curtains to RSA until mid-July 2020. Looking at the sofa, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for RSA to consider that the water stain, which was still wet in 
August 2020, couldnt fairly be linked to the escape of water six months before. In relation to 
the curtains, theres no doubt that they are damaged by mould and water stains. But, as with 
the sofas, I cant see how the damage could reasonably be linked to the much earlier escape 
of water. 
I have sympathy for Mr Hs situation and there might have been a different outcome if the 
damage had been reported to RSA immediately after the escape of water. But it wasnt, and 
at this late stage I cant see how the damage could reasonably be linked to the escape of 
water. 
Mr H didnt make a claim to RSA in relation to any wear and tear caused to the sofa  his 
claim was just about water damage. I dont think he had any expectations that his sofa would 
be replaced because of minor wear and tear to it. But RSA did cover this as part of the claim 
and so, for completeness, I will cover it here. And Im satisfied the terms of Mr Hs policy 
dont allow for gradual wear and tear to items such as sofas and sets of curtains.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman