DRN-2631157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a trip they 
were planning to take to Australia in January 2020. They were due to fly out on 6 January 
2020 and had a variety of accommodation and trips booked as part of their planned holiday.
Unfortunately, Australia was experiencing severe bushfires near to some of the places Mr 
and Mrs B were planning to visit and stay. So they decided to cancel their trip. They made a 
claim for the costs theyd incurred which they werent able to recover.
URV turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover the 
circumstances of it. And it also said that the natural disaster cover the policy provided only 
applied if a policyholder was already on their trip.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said they felt theyd followed Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO advice) 
which they said was to only travel to Australia if it was safe to do so.
Our investigator didnt think URV had treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly. He didnt think the policy 
terms covered their situation. And he didnt think the FCO had advised UK nationals against 
travelling to Australia at the relevant time.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They didnt think URV had any moral standards or good will. They 
felt URV claimed to cover reasonable circumstances in its literature but hid behind the small 
print to turn down claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I dont think URV has treated 
them unfairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy and the circumstances to decide whether URV 
handled their claim fairly.
Ive first looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, as these form 
the basis of their contract with URV. As Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip before they were 
due to travel, I think it was reasonable for URV to assess their claim under the If you are 
unable to go on your Trip section of the policy. This says:
We will pay up to £3,000 for your proportion of pre-paid:
Transport charges;
Loss of accommodation;
Car hire; and 
Pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip, 
that you have paid or have agreed to pay, that you cannot recover from
any other source, following your necessary cancellation after you purchased this insurance   
resulting in financial loss;
If you are unable to travel due to your, a close relative, the person you are
intending to stay with, or a business associates death, injury or illness; being required as a 
witness or member of the jury in a court of law; redundancy; or the requirements of H.M. 
Forces.
Its common ground that severe bushfires did affect areas of Australia around the time Mr 
and Mrs B were due to travel. And that these fires meant that they werent in a position to 
undertake some of their planned trips or use some of the accommodation theyd planned, 
even if they were still able to take their pre-booked flights. I appreciate how worrying the 
situation mustve been and why Mr and Mrs B felt they couldnt travel as theyd planned. But 
I dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that their situation wasnt covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy.
The policy includes natural disaster cover of up to £1,500, which covers cancellation of 
unused travel and accommodation costs; reasonable additional accommodation costs and 
travel delay if a natural disaster occurs. But the summary of cover section of the policy 
clearly states that cover is only provided if the disaster happens during a policyholders trip. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their holiday before their planned departure. So I dont 
think it was unfair for URV to decide that the claim didnt fall within the scope of natural 
disaster cover.
Mr and Mrs B have told us the FCO advised that travellers should only travel to Australia if it 
was safe to do so. Ive thought carefully about this, because the policy excludes cover if a 
policyholder has travelled against FCO advice. Ive checked the FCO guidance which 
applied to Australia around 3 January 2020. While the bushfires are mentioned, I cant see 
enough evidence to show that the FCO advised British nationals against travelling to 
Australia, or that it suggested that people should only travel if it was safe to do so. Given it 
doesnt appear that the FCO had advised against travelling at the point Mr and Mrs B 
decided to cancel their trip, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct URV to 
pay their claim on this basis.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs B, because Im aware they lost out on 
their trip and have been left out of pocket, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for URV 
to conclude that their claim wasnt covered by the terms of their insurance contract. And I 
dont think it applied the terms of the policy unfairly. So Im not telling URV to pay Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman