DRN-4024396
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension arrangement in 2017. He 
says the advice has caused a financial loss.
Grove Pension Solutions Limited is now responsible for answering this complaint. To keep 
things simple Ill therefore refer mainly to Grove. 
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of the OPS which was a large public sector scheme. Hed 
accrued several years worth of benefits and in late 2016, it seems Mr M approached Grove 
about accessing the benefits of his DB pension. The information gathered about Mr M at the 
time was broadly as follows:
Mr M was 59 years old, separated and had no others financially dependent on him.
He earned around £1,200 per month (net). He was living in a caravan at the time of 
the advice and didnt have any savings or assets. He had moderate credit card debt 
which was being paid down gradually.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms DB scheme was around 
£79,500 although this increased slightly over the months Mr M was being advised by 
Grove. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr M eventually transferred out of his DB pension in May 2017 and put the money into a 
type of personal pension arrangement. However, it seems hes since accessed these funds 
and spent most of the money. He has engaged a representative which complained to Grove 
on his behalf, in 2022. It says that Grove had facilitated a transfer away from his DB pension 
scheme and that this was both unsuitable advice and had caused him a financial loss.
However, Grove said that in its dealings with Mr M, it told him that transferring away from his 
DB scheme wasnt recommended. It says it issued a recommendation against transferring 
away. It says Mr M was an insistent client  a term used within the industry when a client 
wants to go against what was recommended to them by their adviser. Grove maintains that 
transferring away on this basis was Mr Ms decision and that he was given warnings about 
what he was doing. 
The complaint has now been referred to the Financial Ombudsman. One of our investigators 
looked into it and said we should uphold it. They thought Grove hadnt treated Mr M correctly 
when categorising him as an insistent client. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stated in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COB) at the time, that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests.
Also at the time of the advice, there was some regulatory guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. This had been published fairly recently at around the time of this advice, 
and so Grove should have been aware there had been regulatory concerns about these 
types of situations. Ill refer to this further down. But there were also still the comprehensive 
general rules in the regulators Handbook, which required Grove to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COB required 
Grove to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Groves 
recommendation had to be clear. I also think its fair and reasonable to say that Mr M ought 
to have understood the consequences of going against any recommendation it might have 
made.
Ive also used my inquisitorial remit to think about whether this complaint should be upheld. 
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
The financial viability of transferring his pension
Normally when examining a DB pension transfer, Id start off the process by assessing 
whether transferring away could be justified from a financial comparison perspective. This 
would usually involve looking at and considering the growth assumptions that were 
reasonable at the time and whether the transferred funds could grow to such an extent to 
make the transfer worthwhile. 
Grove referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to the critical yield rate. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits as 
the DB scheme. In Mr Ms case, the critical yield for a retirement at 65 was high, at over 
16%, if taking a reduced pension and a tax-free lump sum. If taking a full pension without 
any lump-sum, the critical yield rate was over 19%. So, if transferring was to be financially 
viable, Id need confidence that this type of growth could be achieved over future years until 
around when Mr M might reach his NRA. In my view, this would be highly unlikely.
However, none of these things really matter in this particular case. This is because Grove 
said then  and now - that the growth rates needed if he transferred were too high. It said at 
the time that Mr M ought not to transfer his DB pension.  For example, on 6 March 2017 
Grove wrote to Mr M in email form. It set out that the adviser didnt think transferring was 
right for Mr M and recommended he didnt do it. So, having said this both at the time of the 
advice and when Mr M raised his complaint to our Service, it would clearly be hard for Grove 
now to say transferring was suitable.
The main crux of this complaint is therefore not whether hed gain anything by transferring. 
Its whether Grove did enough to act in Mr Ms best interests and specifically, whether it acted improperly by facilitating the pension transfer, nonetheless, on an insistent client 
basis. 
What was Grove required to do? 
At the time, there were no rules to prevent advisers transacting business against their advice 
if the client insisted. However, businesses should have followed the normal advice rules first. 
This means Grove needed to obtain the necessary information about Mr M and his 
investment objectives, his financial situation, and his knowledge and experience so as to 
enable it to make a suitable personal recommendation. It also needed to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in the best interests of Mr M.
Grove should also have understood Mr Ms investment objectives before making a 
recommendation. A request or preference by him for a particular solution  for example 
accessing cash from a pension  isnt an objective. Grove had to ascertain his actual 
investment objectives so that it could advise on a suitable course of action to meet them. It 
was also required to communicate with the client (for example in the suitability report) in a 
way that is clear, fair and not misleading (see Principle 7). 
As our investigator also pointed out, the regulator provided some guidance in February 2016 
on the steps it expected advice firms to take when treating someone as an insistent client:
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The FCA also provided some examples of good and poor practice with regard to arranging 
transactions on an insistent client basis. It said the following would be examples of good 
practice:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms 
regarding both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to 
transfer, the receiving product and the funds into which the client was advised to 
invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the 
personal recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and 
its outcome in a separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented. 
Did Grove get things right?
Mr M first engaged with Grove in late 2016. A fact find and pension transfer analysis were 
commissioned in December 2016 and arrangements made for a telephone meeting 
whereby Grove and Mr M could discuss his financial affairs.There then appears to have been a gap of quite a few weeks. However, on 6 March 2017 
Grove sent Mr M an email which set out:
if he transferred away from his DB scheme, he would be giving up a likely pension of 
around £320 per month and a tax-free lump sum of around £25,643. The email 
pointed out that this was guaranteed whereas investing elsewhere wouldnt be 
guaranteed
the critical yield rates were very high
if he lived to normal life expectancy, hed probably lose over £31,000 in total as a 
result of transferring away from his DB pension
if he needed money  which Mr M had said he did - he may be better of getting a 
personal loan rather than using his pension.
I think its fair to say that at this stage Mr M would have been aware that Groves 
recommendation was against leaving his DB scheme. But I dont think it was right that this 
first tranche of advice was issued to Mr M in email format rather than in a suitability report 
which Id normally expect to see regulated pension advice in. I accept this may have been a 
deliberate and shortened form of advice, but the consequences of it were that the advice 
points were more restricted than one might expect in a full suitability report. For some 
consumers this may be appropriate but as Ill explain below, it was important here that Mr M, 
someone with very limited financial knowledge, really understood all the issues he might 
face if transferring. 
I think its also fair to say the adviser should have known that Mr M appeared to be in a 
somewhat vulnerable financial position. He had no savings or investments, was living in a 
caravan and the pension in question appeared to be his only retirement provision other than 
a possible state pension (at the age of 66). 
Ive noted there was a prospect of Mr M being rehomed in due course into more substantive 
housing with the help of a friend, although the circumstances and value of this arrangement 
seem to me to demonstrate that the property hed be moving into was of low quality and in 
need of investment. I say this because the property was apparently being bought by a friend 
for only £33,000. So, in my view, Mr Ms circumstances of that time  as recorded on the 
December 2016 fact find by Grove raise more questions than answers. Mr M had evidently 
told Grove that his need for cash at the time was based on furnishing this new property  
mention was made of getting a wardrobe, furnishings and utensils. He implied he needed 
£10,000.
I therefore think all these circumstances should have put Grove on notice that it was dealing 
with someone here with very limited financial resources, no capacity for loss and most likely 
someone with little understanding of his financial options going forward. Added to this Mr M 
seems to have been going through a complicated time of his life where he would be dealing 
with a number of significant changes. I think Groves dealings with Mr M ought to have 
reflected this as this didnt appear an ideal time to be reorganising ones pension planning. 
I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Ms situation would have shown his apparent need 
for cash was no more than an estimate and potentially even somewhat unrealistic when 
comparing against his longer-term retirement needs. The adviser did mention in his email 
the potential for a loan to Mr M as an alternative way of raising some cash. However, another option, not mentioned, might have been to retain his DB pension scheme and retire 
from this early at the age of 60, rather than 65, which was by then only a few months away. 
So, I think there were some shortcomings in the overall advice. Nevertheless, I do accept 
that the adviser rightly told Mr M that transferring his pension didnt appear to be a suitable 
course of action.
Having had the email from Grove on 6 March 2017, Mr M emailed the adviser back on 16 
March. He told the adviser he still wanted to proceed with a transfer away from his DB 
scheme and he specifically mentioned his circumstances had changed. It looks very much 
like there was a call between the parties after this email from Mr M, but we have no 
recording of it. What then happened was that a suitability report was immediately produced 
and sent to Mr M the next working day, which was Monday 20 March 2017. Again, I accept 
that this report largely picked up where the previous Grove email had left off  essentially re-
emphasising that transferring from his DB pension wasnt recommended. However, in my 
view, this report was seriously undermined in that in the same document it went on to 
recommend a personal pension provider and a specific money market pension fund to which 
Mr M could transfer.
I think the suitability report was further undermined because it was accompanied by a cover 
letter introducing the document. This letter made it clear that all Mr M had to do to get the 
transfer ball rolling was to sign the enclosed paperwork and return it to Grove. It also 
enclosed the fact sheet relating to the proposed new personal pension fund, personal 
pension transfer illustrations, and the providers Key Facts document. So, its important to 
point out that Mr M was being sent significant information about a new pension fund provider 
to which he could transfer to, and a fund recommended by Grove, all in the same document. 
And under the same cover, he was being sent transfer-out forms. 
The suitability report also set out Mr Ms attitude to investment risk (ATR) and its application 
to potential funds in a personal pension. So, I think all these things show that transferring 
was by now the predominant direction of travel. All Mr M had to do was to sign some forms 
and send them back to his adviser. 
The regulator has expressed concern about insistent client situations where the apparent 
recommendation is not to transfer from the DB scheme, but where this recommendation is 
somewhat insincere. The FCA examples of poor practice describes such situations as no 
more than a papering exercise. In Mr Ms case, and at this particular stage in the dialog the 
parties were engaged in, what Grove effectively did was to introduce him to a new personal 
pension provider, issue investment fund advice and talk to Mr M about his ATR, all in the 
same suitability report which had begun by recommending he shouldnt transfer at all.
Whether or not Mr M would have found this confusing is obviously open to debate. However, 
in my view he was certainly in a vulnerable situation and his financial knowledge seemed 
very limited indeed. And as I set out above he was already undergoing significant changes to 
his life. Also, as hed been sent all the necessary forms to discharge from the DB scheme at 
the same time as the suitability report, he didnt really have to go through any more onerous 
procedures to obtain access to the £79,500 his CETV contained.
Mr M had also explicitly said in his email of 16 March that his circumstances had changed. 
Ive taken this to mean changed from Groves original dont transfer email of 6 March. But 
the issue here is that we cant really say much about this because Grove doesnt appear to 
have enquired enough into this change of circumstance. In fact, what we now know, tends to 
strongly suggest that there was no such change in Mr Ms situation; and its likely he just 
said this to help justify a change in Groves recommendation.Looked at through a certain lens, its possible to say that Mr M himself was wrong to seek a 
change in Groves recommendation. However, given the overall circumstances, I think Grove 
should have enquired into these so-called changes. I think if Mr M was found to be 
exaggerating a change to his circumstances, then Grove should have easily seen through 
this. In many ways, it could be viewed as merely an obvious act of desperation by Mr M to 
get the pension money quickly and so a comprehensive dialog should have taken place 
about the risks of this. Grove was the regulated financial adviser here and it was being paid 
a significant sum for its advice. It should therefore have drilled down into any potential 
reasons as to why Mr M still wanted to transfer away from his DB scheme, not least because 
there was still a possibility that what had supposedly changed may well have justified a 
complete re-look at his situation. On the other hand, I think all this very clearly showed that 
Mr M hadnt properly digested Groves advice up to that point.
At this stage, I think Grove should have been taking note of the regulators stance that these 
types of transfer are most likely unsuitable. It should have further considered the guidance in 
place at the time about insistent clients, as Ive set out above. And its important to 
remember that Grove should have been very clear that if it was still not recommending a 
particular transaction or course of action, then the risks of what Mr M was apparently 
interested in were pointed out to him during the course of the advice. 
In my view, just issuing a suitability report which also contained the recommendations for a 
new pension provider and a particular money market fund, didnt adequately achieve this. 
When Grove became aware that Mr M was still interested in transferring away, in my view it 
should have issued an independent suitability report with all the reasons as to why he 
shouldnt transfer, without any references to a new personal pension. It should also have 
provided an opportunity for Mr M to explain why he wanted to transfer and that he fully 
understood this was against Groves advice. It should also have discussed with Mr M his 
reasons for apparently not accepting the advice. And it should have completely clarified 
whether there were any changes in his circumstances. In short, I think this would have been 
a good opportunity for Grove to really understand his needs, or indeed, whether he really 
understood the process at all. 
Grove should also have asked Mr M if early retirement from the scheme might have been 
more suited to his financial and retirement aspirations going forward. However, I think a 
significant omission here was that Grove didnt really discuss with, or point out to Mr M, the 
obvious challenges he would face from a substantial reduction in his retirement provision. In 
my view, it was clear that this needed explaining carefully to Mr M. This might have included, 
but is not limited to, comparing his financial needs in retirement with the reductions hed face 
by leaving this DB pension scheme. His pension provisions were already modest, so I think if 
Grove had taken some time to really reiterate why all this wouldnt be in his best interests, 
Mr M would have listened.
Suitability of investments
Grove ultimately recommended that Mr M invest in funds within a personal pension 
arrangement. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, and he wasnt treated correctly regarding the insistent 
client rules and guidance, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr M should have been more 
comprehensively advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the new 
personal pension funds wouldnt have arisen if Grove had followed the correct procedures.
SummaryI accept that Grove began this process by correctly saying that transferring away from his 
DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. I also accept it provided a certain amount of 
information explaining why it had arrived at that view. Also, when Mr M expressed an 
apparent interest in transferring anyway, Grove did issue some written warnings.
However, Ive described above why I think Grove also got a number of things wrong in this 
case. I dont think Grove took enough note of Mr Ms obvious lack of pensions knowledge 
and his financial vulnerability. In my view, there were obvious inconsistencies in his financial 
profile and motives. For example, his housing costs moving forward seemed very unclear 
and what he apparently wanted money for in no way justified exiting a DB pension scheme. 
I also think the advice Grove provided to Mr M about his alternative options to transferring 
his pension was unduly limited. Although it discussed the possibilities of a personal loan, I 
think the option of maintaining membership of his DB scheme and retiring early was very 
much worth considering and this may have encouraged Mr M to view his options in a 
completely different light from the outset. Mr M was over the age of 59 and this might have 
been suitable for him as it may have generated a lump-sum close to the amount Mr M 
thought he needed at the time.
Its easy to think that Grove gave Mr M strong words on two different occasions to not 
transfer away from his DB scheme. However, the first of these was in an email. Whilst this 
did clearly headline the main disadvantages, it was limited in its scope. So, by 6 March 
2017, Mr M hadnt really been told about all his alternative options and the real problems he 
would likely face in generating a reasonable retirement income if he transferred away. 
As for the second occasion, on 16 March 2017, whilst he was given a more comprehensive 
suitability report, Ive explained how this was undermined by the accompanying paperwork. 
Not only did this comprise of the detailed recommendations about a new pension provider 
and its funds, there was an opportunity presented to Mr M for him to transfer away from the 
DB scheme in a quick and easy manner; all he needed to do was merely sign a few forms 
and return them to Grove. In this context, I dont think he was given genuinely robust 
warnings which he would have understood the seriousness of.
That Mr M was keen on transferring is not in doubt. However, I think Grove failed to gain 
assurance that Mr M really understood the consequences of what he was considering. 
Grove failed to understand whether he had any investment objectives. And it failed to get 
him to explain why he really needed £10,000 for items that didnt appear to merit that value. 
In my view, and of course with great respect to Mr M himself, it simply wasnt clear that hed 
understood or considered even the most basic alternative means of generating money, as 
opposed to irreversibly leaving a DB scheme which contained valuable benefits and 
guarantees for the rest of his life. 
Against this backdrop, I think Grove had a responsibility to treat his case with great care. Its 
job wasnt to simply transact what Mr M, a man with no investment experience, thought he 
wanted. Whilst this was Mr Ms own money and he could use it as he pleased, Grove 
needed to reiterate all the risks and check his understanding, which on the face of it 
appeared very poor. I also think an obvious risk here was that Mr M would continue to 
access the transferred funds, rather than keep them invested for his retirement, which is 
mainly what a pension is for. We know this is what subsequently happened.
For the reasons Ive set out above Im upholding this complaint.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. My understanding is that Mr M has depleted most 
of the pension fund.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Grove may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
Grove pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and direct Grove Pension Solutions 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman