DRN-2280764
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited dealt with the 
cancellation of his car insurance policy and the amount he was charged. 
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy through Somerset Bridge who are an insurance broker. 
After the policy had started the insurer asked for the driving licence details for Mr M and the 
additional driver to verify the policy. 
Somerset Bridge wrote to Mr M to request the information on 4 March 2020 and asked for it 
to be provided within the next 21 days. Mr M replied on 16 March 2020 with a photo of his 
driving licence. There followed e-mail correspondence between Mr M and Somerset Bridge 
about what exactly was needed, and Somerset Bridge extended the date to provide the 
information until 6 April 2020. Mr M then provided his DVLA check code to Somerset Bridge 
on 2 April 2020. As Somerset Bridge hadnt received the driving licence details for the 
named driver, Somerset Bridge responded to Mr M to let him know this was still needed by 6 
April 2020. 
Mr M replied to Somerset Bridge to say he was having difficulties with the DVLA and asked 
for an extension. Somerset Bridge let Mr M know he had until 20 April 2020 to provide the 
information to prevent the policy being cancelled. As Somerset Bridge didnt hear anything 
by that date the insurer cancelled Mr Ms policy. Somerset Bridge wrote and sent a text to Mr 
M on 21 April 2020 to let him know his policy had been cancelled, along with the amount 
owed for the policy. On the same day Mr M e-mailed Somerset Bridge to complain and 
asked for a refund of what hed paid. 
Somerset Bridge looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had written to Mr M 
on several occasions through e-mails and texts to let him know what was needed. It also 
said extensions had been provided and because the information hadnt been received it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. Somerset Bridge explained it had charged Mr M in 
line with its terms of business but as a goodwill gesture refunded the cancellation fee. Mr M 
disagreed, he said hed had issues getting the information needed from the DVLA because 
of the Covid-19 pandemic, and it wasnt his fault he couldnt provide the named drivers 
details in time. Mr M referred his complaint here. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found 
that Somerset Bridge had let Mr M know what his insurer needed and provided a reasonable 
time to send it to them. He found that as Somerset Bridge hadnt received an update to say 
Mr M couldnt provide the information by the date requested, he didnt think Somerset Bridge 
had done anything wrong. He also said hed checked with the DVLA and been told theyd 
operated online and over the phone during the pandemic. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the DVLA website hadnt worked and he wasnt able to get 
through on the phone. Because of this he didnt think hed been treated fairly and asked for 
an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I feel it would help to explain that while Somerset Bridge is the 
broker for Mr Ms policy the decision to cancel the policy is ultimately made by the insurer. If 
Mr M is unhappy with the cancellation this would need to be dealt with separately against the 
insurer. In this decision I can only consider the actions of Somerset Bridge when it was 
administering Mr Ms policy and what Somerset Bridge have charged him. 
Somerset Bridges terms of business say they may be required by the insurer to check no 
claims discount and driving licence details. They go onto say that if this information isnt 
provided within 21 days then the policy may be cancelled. 
I can see Mr M provided his driving licence details to Somerset Bridge by 2 April 2020 and 
Somerset Bridge replied to say it still needed the details for the named driver. Mr M let 
Somerset Bridge know there was some difficulties getting this information from the DVLA 
and requested an extension. Somerset Bridge let Mr M know he had an extension until 20 
April 2020 to provide the named drivers details otherwise his policy would be cancelled. 
As Somerset Bridge hadnt heard anymore from Mr M his policy was cancelled, Somerset 
Bridge wrote and sent a text to Mr M to let him know on 21 April 2020. I understand Mr M 
thinks this is unfair as he said he had issues with the DVLA because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. While I can see there is some debate about whether he could get hold of the 
DVLA on the phone Im not persuaded it means Somerset Bridge did anything wrong. I say 
this because Somerset Bridge had written to Mr M on multiple occasions to let him know 
what his insurer needed and provided a reasonable time for it to be sent in. This was also 
extended on a couple of occasions. And as Somerset Bridge didnt hear from Mr M by the 
date requested the insurer then cancelled his policy. 
Ive also looked at what Somerset Bridge has charged Mr M. I can see Somerset Bridge 
explained hed been charged for time on risk by the insurer, along with fees from the finance 
provider as his policy is paid for on a monthly basis. As these arent charged by Somerset 
Bridge, I cant consider them further here. From the breakdown of charges by Somerset 
Bridge I can see it refunded its cancellation fee of £75 and only charged Mr M the policy 
arrangement fee and direct debit fees, as outlined in its terms of business. I therefore dont 
think Somerset has treated Mr M unfairly as its refunded the cancellation fee. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman