DRN-3617358
The complaint
Mr Ks complained about how Capital One (Europe) Plc communicated with him when they 
blocked his credit card.
What happened
Mr K wanted to make a payment using his Capital One card.  He gave the details to the 
merchant several times.  But each time, the payment was declined.  So Mr K called Capital 
One to find out what had happened.
Capital One told him his account had been blocked.  They took Mr K through security and 
removed the block.  But Mr K was unhappy about the embarrassment hed been caused by 
the payment being declined and made a complaint.  He said Capital One should have 
contacted him to let him know the account had been blocked, rather than him only finding 
out when he used the card.
Capital One responded to the complaint by explaining that Mr Ks card had been blocked 
because some post had been returned to them.  So they wanted to make sure there wasnt 
any fraud on Mr Ks account.  They apologised for the frustration this had caused Mr K.  But 
they said it wasnt their policy to contact their customers in this situation.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response and brought his complaint to us.  As well 
as the complaints he made to Capital One, he said he was dissatisfied with the customer 
service hed received when he called to get the block removed and raise his complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Capital One didnt need to do any 
more to resolve it.  She said most financial institutions block access in this way in these sorts 
of circumstances to safeguard their customers accounts and protect their data.  And, while 
she acknowledged Mr K wasnt happy with this, she couldnt say Capital One were wrong to 
do what they did.
And the investigator listened to the recordings of the calls Mr K made.  She noted the staff 
he spoke to explained why the block had been placed on the card and that it was removed 
as soon as Mr K had passed the security checks.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, financial institutions will sometimes block a customers access 
to their account while they check its not being accessed improperly.  That happened here 
because an item of post Capital One sent Mr K was returned to them.  That triggered a 
check they still had the right contact details for him.
Ive seen Mr K has said it wasnt fair, because he didnt return any post.  But Ive listened to 
the calls he had with the Capital One staff.  They said only that post had been returned  not 
by whom.  And I think its reasonable - having had post returned - for Capital One to have 
blocked the account while they made checks.
Mr K has also complained Capital One should have told him the account was blocked.  Ive 
thought about this.  And Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the card, which Mr K 
agreed to when he got it.
The terms include a section called How we may restrict the use of your account.  The 
relevant part says:
As well as closing your account, we can also suspend, restrict or cancel use of your 
account.  We may do this if:
 we don't think your account is secure
.
I think this term make it clear an account may be blocked and the reasons why this might 
happen. The terms go onto say that Capital One would try and let customers know if they 
were going to do that.  But theyve said they dont do this in cases where theyre not sure if 
the address they have is the right one.
I think thats reasonable, because Capital One werent certain they still had the right contact 
details for Mr K.  So to use those details to contact him would have been a further risk.  And I 
cant say Capital One should have done that, rather than waiting for Mr K to contact them.  
So, while I understand Mr K was frustrated he couldnt use his card when he wanted to, I 
dont think blocking his account was unfair.  It was blocked in line with Capital Ones security 
measures.  And it was unblocked as soon as Mr K contacted them.  
Capital One explained why theyd done this over the phone and in writing.  Ive not seen or 
heard anything in those communications which suggests Capital One didnt deal fairly with 
Mr K.  So I dont think they need to do any more to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Capital One 
(Europe) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman