DRN-3977234
The complaint
Mr C complains Amtrust Europe Limited didnt treat him fairly when he made a claim under 
his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy, and this caused him avoidable distress.
Any reference to Amtrust includes the actions of its agents.
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr C has a LEI policy which is underwritten by Amtrust. In November 2021, he 
submitted a claim to Amtrust to pursue a clinical negligence claim.
Amtrust confirmed receipt of the claim and asked Mr C to provide further information 
so it could assess whether his claim was covered under the policy. But it didnt hear 
back.
In December 2021, Amtrust followed up its request to Mr C as it still hadnt heard 
from him. 
In January 2022, Mr C said hed been suffering from poor mental health and a 
serious medical illness, and so, hadnt been able to send the requested information. 
Amtrust said it would assess the claim once it heard back from him.
In March 2022, Mr C contacted Amtrust and said it had failed to progress his claim. 
Amtrust said the last time it had heard from Mr C was in January 2022. 
In response, Mr C provided screenshots which showed hed sent emails to Amtrust 
with the information attached in February and March 2022. 
Mr C subsequently made a complaint which Amtrust investigated. In doing so, it 
attempted to call Mr C to speak about his concerns. 
Mr C says his disability means he doesnt use the phone and so, the call and 
voicemail from Amtrust was traumatic for him. 
In its final response letter, Amtrust apologised for any distress the call may have 
caused but said  aside from his claim form referring to Mr Cs GP surgery not 
abiding by his reasonable adjustment request  it wasnt aware calls should be 
avoided. It said it had added an alert to his case file to prevent this happening in the 
future. 
With regards to the missing emails, it accepted Mr C had sent them but said that 
because the files were large, its firewall might have prevented them from being 
received. It said Mr C would have received an automated acknowledgement if the 
emails had been safely delivered  as wouldve happened previously with the ones 
he had it in the past. 
Unhappy, Mr C brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
said she was satisfied Amtrust had handled the claim fairly. 
Mr C disagreed saying the Investigators view was discriminatory and breached 
relevant legislation. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
But before I do, its important to explain that Im only considering events up until the date of 
Amtrusts final response letter in June 2022. So, any concerns about validating the claim and 
how it progressed after this time will need to be considered under a separate complaint.
Mr C feels strongly that Amtrusts reliance on him not receiving an automated 
acknowledgement email in response to his two emails is unfair and indirectly discriminates 
against him as someone who is neurodiverse. 
Mr C says - owing to his neurodiversity - he cant comprehend hypotheticals. And so, it was 
reasonable for him to assume delivery in the absence of a failure to deliver notification. In 
other words, Mr C considers that Amtrust has put in place a way of doing things which has 
had a worse impact on him as someone who isnt neurotypical. Hes added that he thinks 
Amtrust pretended to not receive his emails and so, it failed to progress his claim. 
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. So, I wont be commenting on whether Amtrust has indirectly discriminated 
against Mr C. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
To decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider good industry practice at the time. So, although its for the Courts 
to say whether theres been a breach of the Equality Act 2010, were required to take it into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Amtrust doesnt dispute that Mr C sent the emails in question, but its said its firewall  
whether due to the size of the emails or because of detecting a risk with them  possibly 
prevented the emails from delivering. It reached this conclusion having conducted a search 
of its systems to check the emails hadnt been attached to a different case file in error. 
Its reasonable that Amtrust would use a form of software to inspect the data it receives and 
so, on the face of it, Im not persuaded its reasonable to say Amtrust is at fault if the firewall 
detected a risk and prevented the emails from delivering. This seems like a sensible security 
step for a business of this nature to have. Nor have I seen any evidence to support Mr Cs 
argument that Amtrust has pretended not to receive the emails. So, Im satisfied the firewall 
preventing delivery is the most likely cause of the emails not being received. 
I understand Mr Cs point that Amtrust, knowing it requires consumers to send information, 
should have a system in place which means it can receive large files. However, that doesnt 
mean it can receive all files.  and here its an unfortunate position that the file seemingly 
wasnt received due to its format/size. 
Amtrust has said that Mr C would have received automated acknowledgements when 
corresponding previously and so, ought to have known the emails hadnt delivered. I can 
understand both arguments here  Mr C wouldnt necessarily have been looking out for 
automated responses, but equally Amtrust seemingly didnt receive the email to respond to 
it. Ive thought about whether Id have expected Amtrust to chase Mr C for the information, but 
in the particular circumstances of this case, I wouldnt have expected it to. I say that because 
Amtrusts understanding of events - based on what Mr C had said about his health in 
January 2022  was that it was waiting for Mr C to send the information. So, I can 
understand why it didnt do anything further to request the information it believed was still 
outstanding. Im also persuaded that had Amtrust contacted Mr C during this time, it would 
have likely caused him unnecessary upset  especially when Im mindful of the distress felt 
by Mr C when Amtrust did call him and left a voicemail.  
So, on balance, Im not persuaded its fair to say Amtrust treated Mr C unfairly by not 
foreseeing that its firewall might prevent his emails from delivering, and that in the absence 
of an explicit delivery failure notification, Mr C would be led to believe his claim was 
progressing. And, although there was a delay, Im not persuaded it would be fair in these 
particular circumstances to attribute this to Amtrusts actions.
Now aware of the complexities Mr C faces in communicating by phone, Id have expected 
Amtrust to put measures in place to prevent any avoidable distress  and so, apologising for 
the upset caused by telephoning and adding an alert to Mr Cs file (which says he shouldnt 
be telephoned) - is in line with what Id expect it to do. 
Mr C has referenced Amtrust discriminating against him under the relevant legislation. 
And as Ive outlined above, if Mr C wants a specific decision on whether Amtrust has 
breached any Equality legislation, he will need to take this matter to court as it will be best 
placed to consider this. But Ive considered Amtrusts actions here and Im satisfied the steps 
it put in place since Mr C notified it of his needs were sufficient in the circumstances, and Im 
not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman