DRN-3896487
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs M applied for a credit card with Capital One in September 2009. The credit card account 
was opened with a credit limit of £1,000 which was increased in December of the same year 
to £1,500. In February 2012 Mrs M applied for another credit card with Capital One. This one 
had a limit of £500.
Mrs M says that Capital One shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt 
take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. 
She says Capital One didnt check it was affordable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Mrs M disagreed. She didnt explain why she disagreed, but I have looked at the whole 
complaint in full. 
As Mrs M didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Capital 
One acted unfairly and lent to Mrs M irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mrs Ms borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Mrs M said that at the time of applying for the first card she had over £20,000 in debt and 
was in a debt management plan.
 
Capital One says it completed checks when opening Mrs Ms account. It indicates these 
showed that it was reasonable to lend to Mrs M in the way that it did. I havent seen 
evidence of the outcome of these checks  the data provided does not show anything other 
than the credit limit agreed and Mrs Ms income, which was £11,000. If this is what Capital 
One relies on, I dont think it was sufficient to make an informed decision about whether Mrs 
M could afford the credit. Capital One says it used bureau data, too  that is, data created by 
credit reporting agencies. But I havent seen evidence of what this data showed. 
As I cant be satisfied Capital One did enough checks, Ive thought about what it might have 
seen if it had done more. Mrs M has provided bank statements which showed that she 
averaged an income of £788 over the three months prior to the first account opening. The 
evidence of Mrs Ms expenditure is limited, but her bank account was in credit throughout the 
period. 
Ive also looked at the credit file Mrs M supplied. Mrs M did have other credit commitments 
elsewhere, but I cant see evidence of a level of indebtedness at the time of account opening 
that matches that Mrs M has said she had. And I cant see that she was in any kind of debt 
management arrangement. Its possible this comes later. Mrs M appears, from the 
information available, to have managed other credit well. 
So, I think if Capital One had done adequate checks it would still have considered that it was 
fair and reasonable to lend to Mrs M.
Similarly, when Mrs Ms credit limit was increased a few months later, her situation was the 
very similar to that when she opened the account. The only difference was that she had 
been managing her new Capital One account well, had made payments above the minimum 
requirement on time, and had an outstanding balance of only around £50. Again, I think that 
the decision to increase Mrs Ms credit limit by £500 was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M took out another credit card with Capital One about two and a half years later. Again, 
there is very limited information from Capital One about the checks it did, so Ive considered 
what Capital One was likely to have seen if it had done the checks I consider would have 
been appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mrs M had been managing her first credit card well. Her balance had never been higher than 
about £400, well within the credit limit. In the month before she took out the new card she 
had a zero balance on her first card. 
Mrs Ms declared income had apparently dropped marginally, but a review of Mrs Ms bank 
statements indicates that she actually received more than in 2009. By now she was 
receiving about £960 a month. Evidence from her credit file shows nothing of concern at that 
time and Mrs Ms bank statements were in credit, so it seems that her she had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments. So, I dont have evidence to suggest that if 
Capital One had completed more thorough checks that it would have seen anything to 
indicate that Mrs M would not be able to sustainably repay the amount lent to her.
 
On balance, on the information I have available, I am satisfied that Capital Ones decisions 
to lend to Mrs M was reasonable and proportionate and I dont think Mrs M lost out as a 
result of anything Capital One did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It follows that 
Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman