DRN-4031876
The complaint
Ms P has complained about advice she received from Wesleyan Assurance Society to 
transfer her additional voluntary contribution (AVC) to a Flexi-Access Drawdown (FAD) plan. 
What happened
In July 2017 Ms P met with an adviser from Wesleyan as she wanted advice regarding her 
AVC plan that was held with a provider Ill refer to as Firm P. 
The documents from the time of the sale recorded the following about Ms Ps circumstances: 
Ms P was divorced with no financial dependents. 
She was retiring in August 2017, and had applied to take her Teachers Pension (TP) 
from that date
She was hoping to work as a tutor thereafter, which would boost her retirement 
income  but she couldnt speculate on what that income might be
Ms P needed income in retirement of £17,000 gross per annum. Her TP would 
provide an income of £8,882. So, she had an income shortfall of around £660 per 
month
She had around seven years before reaching state pension age at 66, and needed to 
bridge her income shortfall
Ms P had AVCs with Firm P worth around £95,808. This would provide tax free cash 
(TFC) of just under £24,000, and shed receive TFC of £26,646 from the TP
She had a stocks and shares ISA worth £46,875 and savings of £19,500
Having completed an attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire, it had been established 
that Ms Ps ATR was moderate
A suitability letter, dated 12 September 2017, set out the advisers recommendation that Ms 
P transfer her AVC to a Wesleyan personal pension plan and access the FAD option. The 
aim of this was so Ms P could take the tax free element from the AVC and use this to 
provide a source of flexible tax free income to bridge the income shortfall she had. After 
taking the TFC the recommendation was for the remaining fund to be invested in the with-
profits fund, which had an annual management charge of 1% per annum.  The suitability 
letter also explained that there was an initial advice charge of £2,874 to meet the cost of the 
recommendation and setting up the plan. And a fee of 0.5% per annum would be deducted 
from the fund to pay for the ongoing advice service.
Ms P accepted the recommendation and Firm Ps AVC was transferred to a Wesleyan FAD 
plan in November 2017. By which time the transfer value had increased to £99,071.83. 
In 2021, Ms P raised a complaint with Wesleyan about the handling of her FAD plan. This 
was dealt with as a separate matter by this service. However, in the course of our 
investigations into that complaint, Ms P raised concerns about the sale of her FAD as she 
hadnt required access to her tax free cash. And she didnt agree with the reasons for the 
transfer. She also didnt think the advice had been properly explained. 
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary Wesleyan said: 
the FAD was the most suitable product to provide Ms P with a tax free lump sum. So 
it met her objectives. 
The full benefits were explained to Ms P
Ms P contacted Wesleyan to confirm that she did not immediately need access the 
tax free cash and she was informed that she had 12 months to enter a FAD without 
any further charges being applied, but after 12 months there would be further 
charges. Wesleyan said Ms P was happy with this. 
As Ms P remained unhappy the complaint was considered by one of our investigators who 
concluded the advice was unsuitable. To put things right the investigator suggested 
Wesleyan complete a loss assessment comparing the value of the FAD plan with a notional 
value of what Ms Ps Firm P AVC would have been worth if it hadnt been transferred. 
Wesleyan didnt accept the investigator findings. It provided further information to support its 
stance that the advice to transfer was suitable as it was in line with Ms Ps objectives. 
Included in its further submissions was a file note dated 6 October 2017, confirming that Ms 
P had been in contact and no longer required her tax free cash but that she still wanted to go 
ahead with the transfer.  
The complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision on this matter. Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms P and Wesleyan. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to have happened.
Having reviewed all the information on file, Im upholding this complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. Ive set out my reasoning for this below.
Wesleyan recorded Ms Ps objectives in the suitability letter as requiring TFC to top up the 
shortfall in her income. I know Ms P says that she has only recently seen a copy of the 
suitability letter that Wesleyan says was issued in 2017. Like our investigator, I think on 
balance it was probably issued at that time and that its more likely than not that Ms P 
received this. Although I can appreciate that she may not now recall receiving it. And I note 
that Ms P has queried the content of this report. For a start she says that she didnt require 
TFC as she was expecting a voluntary redundancy payment from her employer. And I note 
she has provided a copy of her bank statement which shows this payment being received in 
her account in September 2017. Shes also explained that she was told that it was best to leave 100% of the fund intact to allow it to grow and that the performance of the fund would 
far outweigh the management charges on it. 
While I dont doubt what Ms P has said here, Im basing my assessment on what Wesleyan 
has noted down in the suitability letter as Ms Ps objectives. This is what its advice was 
based on. And I note that Ms P enquired with Firm P about the possibility of taking her 
benefits but wasnt able to do so without taking advice, hence her contact with Wesleyan. So 
while her objectives may have changed, I think its likely that she initially wanted advice on 
accessing her TFC. 
However, I think its important to explain initially that this wasnt a situation where Ms P was 
simply giving Wesleyan an instruction. She went to Wesleyan for advice and it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that any advice it gave her was suitable. And in providing that 
advice, it needed to make sure that it didnt just facilitate what Ms P thought she might like to 
do.
So as noted in the suitability letter, the main objective for the transfer seems to have been 
for Ms P to access her TFC to top up the shortfall in her income. But Im conscious that a 
month before the transfer completed, Wesleyans records suggest that Ms P contacted it to 
confirm that she didnt require her TFC at that time. Yet, despite this being the main driver 
for the recommendation, Wesleyan doesnt appear to have reviewed the suitability of its 
advice, given that Ms Ps main objective had changed. I think it needed to do this, regardless 
of whether Ms P said that she still wanted to go ahead. It needed to ensure that its 
recommendation was still suitable, given this change. Yet it appears instead of reviewing the 
suitability of its advice, Wesleyan submitted the transfer application. The application form 
was signed by Ms P on 4 October but it doesnt appear to have been submitted by Wesleyan 
until 9 October. So three days after Ms P had advised Wesleyan that she no longer needed 
immediate access to the TFC. 
I acknowledge the file note suggests that while she wont be taking the TFC immediately, 
she may well take it within the next 12 months. But I still think Wesleyan needed to review 
this further in order to satisfy itself that its advice remained suitable. 
In any event, I dont think based on what is recorded in the suitability letter that Wesleyans 
advice was suitable. Like our investigator said, Ms P appears to have had other assets at 
her disposal that she could have used to meet her income shortfall needs. 
The fact find noted that she had savings of £19,500. And investments totalling £46,875. The 
adviser noted that Ms P would receive TFC from the TP of £26,646; bringing her total 
savings and investments to around £93,000, of which around £46,000 was in cash.
Ms P may not have wanted to access these funds at that time but it was the advisers job to 
weigh up accessing these funds against transferring and taking TFC. It doesnt appear this 
happened. And it appears that the suitability letter undervalued the alternative funds Ms P 
had at her disposal.  
Ms P has provided evidence of a redundancy payment of over £26,000 being received in 
September 2017. She says she had known she was getting this since 2016 and that she 
made the adviser aware of it. Its not clear why it wasnt noted in the suitability letter. But 
even without this additional income, Ms P appears to have had sufficient funds at her 
disposal to meet her income shortfall without accessing her TFC. So this leads me to 
conclude that, even before Ms P contacted Wesleyan to say she didnt require her TFC, 
Wesleyan ought to have concluded that it wasnt necessary for Ms Ps AVC to be 
crystallised. The TFC provided by the AVC wasnt needed to meet her shortfall in income, 
which appears to have been Ms P sole objective for the transfer. Like our investigator, Ive seen no other evidence to suggest that transferring was in Ms Ps 
best interest. The annual management charge on the new arrangement was the same as the 
AVC. So there was no saving to be made in terms of the new arrangement being cheaper, in 
fact when the annual ongoing advice fee was included this increased the cost and made it a 
more expensive arrangement. And the FAD plan was invested in a with-profits fund so 
annual reviews of the policy would be of little benefit to Ms P. And on top of this, Ms P had to 
pay 3% of her fund value to cover the cost of advice and the setting up of the plan. 
Overall, I can see no clear benefit to Ms P switching to Wesleyan, simply to invest in a 
similar fund, paying the same AMC. Particularly when it appears that Ms P didnt have a 
need for her TFC at that time and it wasnt her intention to start drawing down funds. So I 
think the advice provided to Ms P to transfer was unsuitable.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Ms P would have remained with her previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. 
I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Ms P's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Wesleyan do?
To compensate Ms P fairly, Wesleyan must:
Compare the performance of Ms P's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Wesleyan should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Wesleyan should pay into Ms P's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Wesleyan is unable to pay the total amount into Ms P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Ms P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wesleyan deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms P how much has been taken off. Wesleyan should give Ms P a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms P asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Wesleyan FAD 
planStill exists and 
liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Ms P's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Wesleyan should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Wesleyan FAD plan should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wesleyan totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Wesleyan will need to 
determine a fair value for Ms P's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms P's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wesleyan should pay the amount calculated as 
set out above. Wesleyan should provide details of its calculation to Ms P in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman