DRN-2456782
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about not being provided with freedom to choose his own firm of 
solicitors in a legal expenses insurance claim funded by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV). 
Hes also unhappy that LV wont tell him what percentage of claims they fund are passed to 
the panel firm they appointed to act for him in 2015. 
All references to Lloyds include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr L was involved in a road traffic incident in 2015. As a consequence of this he made a 
claim on his LV legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim in respect of it. LV 
appointed their panel firm to act for him.
In 2018 Mr L submitted a further legal expenses insurance claim to LV for cover to bring a 
claim against the original panel firm because he felt they were negligent in handling his 
original matter. LV appointed a second panel firm to assess the merits of that claim. A 
barrister was also appointed, who concluded that Mr Ls claim in professional negligence 
didnt have more than 50% of succeeding. Mr L provided some further comments in 
response to this opinion but the barrister remained of the view that the merits of the claim 
were the same.
LV told Mr L amongst other things, that if he wanted to challenge the barristers opinion he 
would need to obtain an opinion of his own from a comparably qualified barrister setting out 
why it was thought that the claim in professional negligence had more than 51% prospects of 
success. This was a requirement of the policy in order for funding to be granted. 
Mr L made a separate complaint to our service about LV misleading him on the issue of 
reconsidering funding his claim if he sent comments from his solicitor and because they 
wouldnt consider a claim against the barrister in negligence. He was also unhappy that LV 
wouldnt allow him to choose his own solicitor when instructing the second panel firm in 2018 
as he felt there was a conflict of interest between them acting because LV had instructed 
them and the first panel firm on a number of other matters. 
LV addressed the first two points but not the latter on the first complaint so the issue of 
freedom of choice of solicitor is the subject of this present complaint. LV have since 
responded to say they dont think there was a conflict of interest between Mr L and the 
second panel firm, such that it wouldve allowed Mr L the freedom to choose his own 
representative from the outset. Theyve also refused to disclose what proportion of work they 
give to the first panel firm and say that information is commercially sensitive. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Mr L 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive been provided with a copy of Mr Ls policy. It says:
Appointing a legal representative
We have chosen a panel of legal firms to provide legal services to our customers.
There is nothing in our relationship with our panel firms which affects their ability to act in 
your best interests.
If (LV) accepts your claim, they will appoint one of our panel of legal representatives on
your behalf.
You have the right to choose your own legal representative to represent you if it is necessary 
to take your claim to court or if a conflict of interest arises.
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to contain such a term and its consistent 
with the relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. 
Mr Ls claim wasnt at a stage when litigation was necessary when the second panel firm 
were instructed and I dont think a conflict of interest arose. We would consider a conflict of 
interest to arise where the solicitor would be in breach of their code of conduct or would be 
professionally embarrassed if they continued to act. So for example if the solicitor previously 
acted for the policyholders opponent or knew the policyholder personally. A conflict could 
also arise if the solicitor made a damaging mistake that would constitute professional 
negligence such as disclosing privileged material or missing procedural deadlines. Although 
Mr L feels the first panel firm was negligent, this doesnt apply to the second panel firm.
Mr Ls main contention is that a conflict of interest arose because LV used solicitor to 
consider a claim against a firm they had an existing relationship with because they referred 
work to the first panel firm. I dont agree. Its common for legal expenses insurers to have 
one or more panel firms they refer work to on a regular basis. And its true that this means 
they have ongoing professional relationships with those firms in so far as referring work to 
them is concerned. However solicitors are independent professionals with their own 
regulator and codes of conduct. So we dont consider commercial relationships with legal 
expenses insurers in themselves to constitute a conflict of interest. 
Its possible and likely that LV do instruct the first panel firm regularly but thats not 
unreasonable and is very common industry practice. But for the reasons Ive set out above, 
we dont view their appointing a second panel firm to consider a claim again the former to 
cause a conflict of interest in itself.I appreciate Mr L is dissatisfied that LV wont provide him with information about how much 
work it refers to the first panel firm. I dont think thats unreasonable. That information is 
confidential to those two parties and I wouldnt expect LV to disclose it to a policyholder. And 
for the reasons Ive explained above, it has no bearing on the way we approach conflicts of 
interest in legal expenses insurance complaints in any event. 
Finally I know Mr L doesnt agree with how this service approaches conflicts of interest. He 
feels a different definition applies. Ive explained how we apply our approach to this issue 
above. I know that differs from how he sees things, but I cant agree that a conflict of interest 
would apply in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ls complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman