DRN-3082247
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt automatically move money he held in savings 
accounts to other accounts that attracted a higher rate of interest.
What happened
Mr B holds four different savings accounts with TSB. The rates of interest on some of the 
savings accounts were only available for a set time, and when that time expired, the effective 
rate of interest that Mr B received on those accounts was reduced. 
Mr B couldnt access TSBs online banking platform following the IT problems that TSB 
experienced in early 2018. Mr B also couldnt get through to TSB on the telephone. This 
meant that Mr B wasnt able to move his savings from the accounts where the interest rate 
had reduced to accounts which provided a better rate of interest. Mr B wasnt happy about 
this, and he referred his complaint about this matter to this service.
This service asked TSB to look at this complaint on Mr Bs behalf. TSB noted that it had 
been incumbent on Mr B to move the money in his savings accounts to alternative accounts 
if he had wanted to do so. Because of this, they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint back to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that it was Mr Bs 
responsibility to have moved the money in his savings accounts if he wanted to do so, and 
they noted that there had been other avenues of contact available for Mr B to make such 
requests to TSB. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr B to have wanted to contact TSB 
via online banking and telephone but to have not been able to do so.
Of the four savings accounts that Mr B holds, one of these accounts is a Monthly Saver 
account. With this type of account, the customer sets up a monthly direct debit to fund the 
savings account, and after twelve months, the Monthly Saver account is converted into an 
Easy Saver account by TSB  an account type that attracts a lower rate of interest than the 
Monthly Saver account. 
Mr B also holds two Easy Saver accounts, both of which were originally opened as Monthly 
Saver accounts, but which have been converted by TSB to Easy Saver accounts following 
the expiration of the twelve-month period.
Having reviewed TSBs management of all of Mr Bs savings accounts, Im satisfied that TSB 
have managed Mr Bs accounts in line with the stated terms of those accounts, and so I 
dont feel that TSB have acted unfairly towards Mr B in how theyve managed his accounts.
But Mr B feels that he couldnt contact TSB to move the money in his savings accounts 
when the converted accounts began attracting interest at a lower rate. Mr B attempted to 
contact TSB via online banking but was unable to do so. Mr B also attempted to contact TSB 
by telephone but felt that the hold times were too long.
Mr B has mental health issues that make visiting a branch a non-viable option, and he notes 
that he cant use TSBs website because the only device on which he could do this is his 
mobile phone, but that the screen is of a size that it makes it impossible for him to read the 
website.
I can appreciate Mr Bs position here. However, this service would not expect TSB to move 
Mr Bs money under these circumstances without first obtaining a request from Mr B to do 
so. 
And while Mr B feels that he was unable to make this request, for the reasons stated above, 
I dont feel that this overrides the responsibility of TSB to not move Mr Bs money without a 
specific instruction.
Additionally, while TSB have acknowledged that there were issues with their online platform, 
Im not convinced that Mr B was prohibited from contacting TSB by telephone. And, I say this 
because while it may have been the case that the hold times to contact TSB were long, I 
dont feel that it was the case that Mr Bs telephone calls wouldnt have been answered by 
TSB, had he stayed on the line. 
I also feel that there were other options available to Mr B, including writing to TSB and 
requesting a telephone call from them, that would have enabled an instruction to move the 
relevant money to be given to TSB.
Finally, Im aware that Mr B feels that TSB should have monitored his accounts and 
contacted him directly when the interest rates on any of his accounts was reduced. Im not 
convinced by Mr Bs position here, and it wouldnt be expected by this service that a bank 
would monitor a customers accounts in the manner that Mr B suggests. Instead, it remains 
my position that it was incumbent on Mr B to have provided an instruction to TSB to move 
the money in his savings accounts if he wanted to do so.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that TSB have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing TSB to take any further action. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman