DRN-4113129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that they were mis-sold a second charge mortgage (secured 
loan) by Fluent Money Limited (Fluent).
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a second charge mortgage for £25,000 through Fluent (as the broker) 
on 29 September 2018 in order to consolidate debt. 
Mr and Mrs J say that the loan should have gone ahead with only Mr J as a sole applicant 
and that Mrs J should not have been included as a joint applicant as she was not party to the 
first charge mortgage on the property. They say that, had this proceeded as a sole 
application and only considered Mr Js income, then the mortgage would have been deemed 
unaffordable at the time. Mr and Mrs J also say that Fluent should have recommended a 
longer mortgage term than the 15 years recommended as this meant the payments were 
higher than they should have been. 
Mr and Mrs J have brought a separate complaint against the lender on the basis that it didnt 
carry out sufficient affordability checks and that it lent irresponsibly.
Fluent says that Mr and Mrs J wanted to consolidate some items of credit into one monthly 
payment and reduce monthly outgoings. It gathered personal and financial information to 
determine Mr and Mrs Js eligibility for the loan and further details were taken in respect of 
Mr and Mrs Js credit commitments, needs and requirements. The advisor recommended 
this loan and a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs J detailing why this particular lender and 
product was recommended and any factors which may have restricted the lenders and 
products available to them on its panel. 
Fluent says that there was no requirement for Mrs J to be named on the first charge 
mortgage in order to be a joint applicant for any second charge mortgage on the same 
property. It says that Mr J asked if it would be beneficial to add Mrs J to the application. The 
advisor confirmed that it would for affordability purposes and both Mr and Mrs J were aware 
that this was a joint application. As the purpose of the loan was to consolidate debts in both 
of their names, this would only have been possible with a joint application; if Mrs J hadnt 
been a joint applicant, they wouldnt have been able to consolidate any debts in her name. 
Fluent says that, as the decision to lend is ultimately made by the lender after sufficient 
evidence of Mr and Mrs Js circumstances was received, it is unable to speculate about what 
would have happened had Mr J been a sole applicant. It says that it conducted appropriate 
affordability checks during the application process based on the lenders criteria.
Fluent says that the lender was most suitable for Mr and Mrs Js personal circumstances as 
the property was on a shared ownership scheme, the lender was fully flexible and was one 
of the faster lenders on its panel. The longest term available with this lender was 15 years 
which gave a monthly payment over the desired budget, Mr and Mrs J had deemed this to 
be affordable as it would reduce their outgoings by around £250 per month. 
Overall, Fluent says that it provided the most appropriate recommendation suited to Mr and 
Mrs Js needs and circumstances as they presented them to Fluent. Mr and Mrs J signed 
and returned the documentation indicating their agreement to the proposed 
recommendation. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that he hadnt seen anything which 
ought to have suggested to Fluent that Mrs J didnt want to be party to the loan or that 
adding her to the loan application was unsuitable or unreasonable. Whilst it was for the 
lender to carry out a detailed affordability assessment, the investigator was satisfied that 
Fluent had taken the information provided by Mr and Mrs J about their income and 
expenditure into account before providing advice and that there wasnt anything in this 
information which suggested the loan would be unaffordable for Mr and Mrs J. 
In relation to the term of the loan, the investigator found that Fluent had explained that the 
number of lenders Mr and Mrs J could apply to was limited due to their circumstances. The 
lender it recommended as being suitable would offer a maximum term of 15 years so this 
was the longest repayment term Fluent could recommend. The investigator concluded that 
Fluent had found a reasonable match which met most of Mr and Mrs Js needs including 
their main objective of reducing their monthly payments. He didnt think there was anything 
to suggest that Fluents advice was unsuitable based on the information available to it.
Mr and Mrs J disagree so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say it doesnt 
follow that the case against the lender may be upheld but the information it received would 
have been from Fluent. They say that Fluent is still under an obligation to put forward correct 
figures for the lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below in respect of the issues raised by Mr 
and Mrs J.
Joint loan
Mr and Mrs J have said that the second charge loan should have gone ahead with only Mr J 
as Mrs J wasnt party to the first charge mortgage on the property. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs J and Fluent. On 20 August 2018, Mrs J called 
Fluent to chase up on the application she had made online and said that she had put the 
application in Mr Js name. When Mr J spoke with the advisor on 21 August he said that Mrs 
J was also working and asked if it would make any difference if she was added to the loan 
and the advisor confirmed that it would as it would be based on her income too. Following 
this, Mrs J was in contact with Fluent on a number of occasions to check on the progress of 
the loan and she specifically confirmed that she was happy with the loan on 17 September.
Its common for parties to pool their resources to afford a mortgage that one party may not 
have been able to on their own. In light of the above, I am satisfied that Mrs J was aware 
that she was party to the loan and that Mr and Mrs J were happy with this at the time it was 
taken out as this would mean her income would also be taken into account when considering 
affordability. 
The fact that Mrs J wasnt a party to the first charge mortgage doesnt mean that she 
couldnt be party to the second charge mortgage. I also note that some of the debts being 
consolidated were in Mrs Js name alone. Had the loan been taken out in Mr Js name alone, 
this would not have been possible. So I am satisfied that Fluent didnt do anything wrong in 
allowing Mrs J to be party to the second charge loan.  
AffordabilityMr and Mrs J have complained that, if the mortgage application had proceeded as a sole 
application by Mr J, it would have been unaffordable. 
I have set out above the reasons why I dont think Fluent did anything wrong in considering 
the income of both Mr and Mrs J rather than inviting Mr J to make a sole application. So 
what mattered was whether Mr and Mrs J could afford the mortgage between them, not 
whether Mr J could afford it on his own.
However, for completeness I will also briefly address the issue of affordability. At the time Mr 
and Mrs J took their mortgage out, although Fluent gave them advice about the suitability of 
the mortgage, it wasnt Fluents responsibility as the broker to check whether it was 
affordable for them. This is regardless of whether the application was a sole or joint 
application. I can see that Fluent took details relating to Mr and Mrs Js income and 
expenditure and also requested further documentation such as payslips and bank 
statements. But it was the lender who was responsible for checking whether the mortgage 
was affordable for Mr and Mrs J. 
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Js separate complaint about the lender and concluded that it 
didnt carry out sufficient checks and, had it done so, it would have shown that the loan was 
unaffordable and unsustainable for Mr and Mrs J and should not have been offered. I found 
that the lender lent irresponsibly in all the circumstances. I therefore asked it to essentially 
remove all interest, fees and charges from the amount borrowed and treat any payments 
made by Mr and Mrs J as being payments towards the £25,000 borrowed.
The fact that I have found that the mortgage was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs J doesnt 
mean that Fluent is also responsible for this. As explained above, it is the lender and not the 
broker which bears ultimate responsibility for checking affordability. So I dont think that 
Fluent has done anything wrong in this respect. 
Suitability
Mr and Mrs J have also said that Fluent should have recommended a higher mortgage term 
than 15 years as this meant the payments were higher than they should have been.  
When considering whether Fluent mis-sold the mortgage to Mr and Mrs J, I need to look at 
whether the advice given was appropriate for them, based on their individual needs and 
circumstances. Fluent should have asked for relevant information about Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances and objectives.
Having listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs J and Fluent, it is clear that they wanted to 
consolidate debts and that their main objective was to reduce their monthly outgoings. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs J initially applied for a loan of £50,000. However, due to Mr J 
being on a shared ownership scheme, the lenders available to them were limited and the 
maximum loan amount available to them through those lenders was £25,000. Mr J had some 
missed mortgage payments, however Fluent confirmed that  although most lenders would 
not accept this  those lenders would not accept shared ownership anyway. During the call 
on 19 September 2018, Fluent advised Mrs J that there were only two lenders that would 
lend against a shared ownership property.
During the calls to Fluent, Mr J confirmed that he was flexible in relation to term and 
indicated that he wanted a longer term so the monthly payment was lower with an ideal 
budget of around £300. He also said that he was looking for flexibility to leave the loan early 
or pay lump sums as they may move property, and that the speed of completion was a 
priority. Fluent determined that the lender it recommended was most suitable for Mr and Mrs J as the 
property was on a shared ownership scheme and Mr J had missed mortgage payments, 
which the lender was prepared to accept. The lender was also fully flexible and allowed for 
overpayments and for the loan to be paid early in full with only up to a two-month penalty. It 
was also one of the faster lenders on Fluents panel. The longest term available with the 
lender was 15 years which gave a monthly payment of £373.35. Fluent said that although 
this was over the desired budget, Mr and Mrs J had deemed this to be affordable as it would 
reduce their outgoings by around £250 per month. I can see that Fluent sent a letter to Mr 
and Mrs J explaining its recommendation, which they signed on 30 August 2018.
Based on what Mr and Mrs J required, I am satisfied that the recommendation was a good fit 
for their needs and circumstances at the time, based on what was available to them. I am 
satisfied that Fluent searched the market and that Mr and Mrs Js options were limited due to 
the property being shared ownership. This meant the maximum amount they could borrow 
with the lenders available to them was £25,000. Of those lenders, the maximum term 
available with the lender which most met their needs regarding flexibility and speed was 15 
years. 
Although the 15-year term meant that Mr and Mrs Js monthly payment would be £373.35, 
which was higher than the £300 they ideally wanted, it did mean they reduced their monthly 
repayments by around £250. While thats a relevant factor, I have found  in the complaint 
against the lender  that this was unaffordable for them. But as Ive directed the lender to 
pay them redress for lending an unaffordable loan, it wouldnt be fair to require Fluent to also 
compensate Mr and Mrs J for this. Affordability is ultimately the lenders responsibility, and it 
wouldnt be right to compensate Mr and Mrs J twice. 
When giving advice, Fluent was entitled to take into account the products available, which 
were limited due to Mr and Mrs Js circumstances. So, although it wasnt possible to meet all 
of their needs in terms of the monthly payment being £300, the recommendation matched 
most of their needs and objectives, including their main objective of consolidating debt and 
reducing their monthly payments  subject to affordability being assessed fully by the lender. 
In light of the above, I dont think the recommendation of a 15-year term by Fluent was 
inappropriate  other than by reason of affordability, for which Ive directed the lender to 
compensate them. Im satisfied that the recommendation was otherwise suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Js needs and circumstances at the time and that the advice given by Fluent was 
otherwise appropriate at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont require Fluent Money Limited to do anything 
further to compensate Mr and Mrs J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman