DRN-2559793
The complaint
D complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) for its decision to deny his 
business account longer forbearance on an overdraft debt and its decision to transfer the 
account to debt recovery. D wants the account to remain out of debt recovery and for a 
grace period up until around 6 months after the end of the pandemic.  
What happened
D is a sole trader who held a business account with NatWest. This account had an overdraft 
facility of up to £7,000. 
D was overdrawn within his limit when he stopped trading in November 2019. His overdraft 
was due to expire in July 2020. 
D entered into correspondence with NatWest in late spring 2020. D wanted NatWest to allow 
him a grace period and continue the overdraft beyond July as he was experiencing difficulty 
finding work. 
D arranged a telephone appointment with NatWest in June 2020, but this did not take place.
NatWest made some efforts to contact D and the appointment was rearranged for late June 
2020. During that call it was agreed that the account would be put on hold until early July 
2020, while D gathered his income and expenditure information. 
D and NatWest spoke again in July 2020 and D requested 6 months breathing space. 
NatWest declined this as the account had been on hold since May. 
D offered to arrange a repayment plan for the overdraft. This was initially agreed but when D 
provided details of his income and expenditure this demonstrated that the plan was not 
affordable because D had not made provision for expenses such as accommodation or food.  
NatWest therefore declined to continue the arrangement and indicated that the account 
would be passed to debt recovery and a default notice issued. 
D complained to NatWest in mid-August 2020. He felt that more could be done to assist him 
in his difficulties. 
NatWest provided its response in November 2020. NatWest acknowledged that D had 
experienced some poor service in relation to calls not being returned and his initial 
appointment not being kept. NatWest offered him £80 compensation to reflect this. 
NatWest declined Ds request to keep the account out of debt recovery. It stated that its 
policy was to allow forbearance only when it considers that there is scope for a consumers 
financial situation to improve in the near future. 
NatWest, to reflect Ds circumstances, offered to refund the interest and charges which had 
been applied to the account between May 2020 and their final response. This amounted to 
£86.88 interest and £0.70 charges. The letter made clear that from that point onwards 
interest and charges would be added until the account was passed to debt recovery.
D was not happy with this and contacted us. One of our investigators has looked into this 
matter and set out her view to the parties. She considered that NatWests offer of 
compensation was reasonable to reflect the poor service in relation to missed calls and 
appointments. She explained that she thought NatWest was not unreasonable in the way it 
had applied its forbearance policy, and its decision to put the account into debt recovery. 
She did, however, think that NatWest ought to refund any interest and charges applied to the 
account between the final response and the account being put into debt recovery, in line with 
the offer in its final response.
NatWest accepted this decision and agreed to refund the interest and charged back to the 
account.
D did not accept this view. D set out that he objected in particular to the account being 
passed to debt recovery, and he felt that the breathing space ought to be extended until 6 
months after the pandemic restrictions are ended. He also felt that the compensation offered 
was inadequate to reflect the impact of the account going into debt recovery. 
The complaint has therefore been passed for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this period has been very difficult for D and that D has sought to avoid 
going into debt recovery for some time. He has explained that he thinks that, given the 
government support that banks have received over time, banks should be willing to extend 
greater support to consumers impacted by the pandemic. 
I understand that view and sympathise with Ds position, but as my colleague explained it is 
not the role of this service to set policy for businesses or to change their existing policies. 
Our role is to consider whether policies and processes have been fairly and reasonably 
applied to the individual consumer, and where they have not, to try to correct this. 
The investigator set out her view that the compensation offered, of £80, was reasonable to 
reflect the service failing in relation to calls not being returned and the missed appointment. I 
agree with this and have not seen any evidence to suggest that these failings caused more 
severe distress and inconvenience for D. I therefore agree with the investigators 
conclusions on this part of the complaint. 
I also agree with the investigator that NatWest has not acted unreasonably in deciding to put 
the account into debt recovery. This is the banks formal step to stop the addition of further 
interest and charges to the account balance which has now been closed for some time. I 
appreciate that D wants further time to improve his circumstances, but businesses are not 
obliged to leave debts dormant for an extended period and, in this case, there is no 
reasonable repayment plan which can be reached, or other prospect for imminent, significant 
change in Ds ability to repay the debt. In those circumstances, I do not think the decision to 
move the debt on is unreasonable.  
D has commented that he thinks the compensation is too little in light of his account being 
put into debt recovery. I understand his view, but as I do not think the decision to put the 
account into debt recovery is a failing, I cannot consider the impact of this decision when 
assessing the level of compensation. Finally, the investigator considered that NatWest ought to extend its goodwill gesture of 
refunding the interest and fees to the entire period from May 2020 until the account is 
transferred to debt recovery. The business has agreed to that recommendation and I agree it 
is consistent and in line with the approach to consumers in financial difficulty.  
For these reasons I agree with the investigators view and direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to:
Refund to Ds account all interest and charges incurred between May 2020 and the account 
being transferred to debt recovery.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I agree with the investigators view and partially uphold the 
complaint. I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund to Ds account all interest and charges incurred between May 2020 and the account 
being transferred to debt recovery.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman