DRN-4276978
The complaint
Mr M complains Creation Financial Services Limited havent defaulted his credit card with 
them after he fell into arrears.
What happened
Mr Ms let us know that from August 2018 his account was managed by a debt charity as 
hed fallen into arrears on the account. In February 2019 the account was sold by Creation to 
a debt purchaser. But the account was never defaulted. Mr M said in line with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance hed like Creation to apply the default and 
backdate it to within three to six months of the account falling into arrears. In addition, he 
asked for compensation for Creation not doing this.
Mr M said in his complaint to Creation, in usual circumstances the default would drop off six 
years after being applied. But the debt will remain on his account for six years after its 
settled  which is longer than necessary had Creation just defaulted him in line with the ICO 
guidance; and as he says all his other creditors did. Mr M also had concerns that Creation 
hadnt told him entering into a repayment plan with them meant no default would be 
recorded  and quoted ICO guidance which says they should have.
When Creation didnt reply, Mr M asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators did so, but overall didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms request for the default to be applied to his credit file for this debt appears to be based 
on his understanding that the debt would be removed entirely from his credit file once the 
default has been removed.
I say that because in his email to our service on 26 June 2023 hes said A defaulted debt is 
removed entirely from a credit report after 6 years  even if there is an outstanding balance 
due.
Im afraid though thats incorrect. The ICOs guidance Credit Explained says on page 23:
Account information:
Type of information Kept for?
Live account Information is collected until the account is closed, then kept 
for six years
Closed account Six years from the date the account is closed
Default Six years from the date of the default
Arrangement to pay Depends on the terms of the arrangement agreed with the 
lender
I agree with Mr M that once a default has been registered that is removed after six years. But 
if the account is still live, then the current owner of the debt can continue to report it as owed 
and there wouldnt be anything wrong with this.
So, as our Investigator explained, telling Creation they should now backdate a default to his 
credit file would in theory make things worse. Ive noted Mr Ms point about other debts of his 
having been defaulted  but Im only considering his complaint against Creation.
In the circumstances, if Creation has chosen not to default Mr Ms account, there may well 
be a good reason for that. I have previously seen accounts where there were legitimate 
reasons for not defaulting the account at the time  such as because the consumer was in a 
payment arrangement and kept to it. And given I dont agree with Mr Ms reason for the 
account being defaulted, I wont be requiring Creation to default the account.
I have noted Mr Ms comments that Creation arent reporting an arrangement to pay with any 
of the credit reference agencies either  but I dont think there is anything necessarily wrong 
with this either. Referring back to the ICOs guidance in the table, this says it depends on the 
terms of the agreement with the lender.
So, as things stand, Ive no compelling reason to tell Creation to amend Mr Ms credit file in a 
way thatd have an adverse effect on him.
If Creation were to later default the account, then Id expect them to also consider whether 
they should be backdating the default. If Mr M was unhappy with Creations actions at this 
point, then he may wish to raise a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman