DRN-3758284
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Campbell Smith LLP (Campbell Smith) werent transparent about 
their fees and charged excessively for financial services and advice. They also complain 
about a number of service issues. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M instructed Campbell Smith in 2010. They received advice individually and 
jointly on a variety of things. However, they became unhappy and complained to Campbell 
Smith. Mr and Mrs M complained:
 
Withdrawals were taken from Mrs Ms portfolio to cover fees for regulated investment 
work without permission. This included fees charged for work carried out for Mr M. 
Invoices werent provided in a timely manner, and they were limited in detail. They 
werent provided with total costs on an annual basis. 
Their concerns about the level of risk exposure from the Scottish Mortgage 
Investment Trust (SMIT) and capital gains tax (CGT) werent handled appropriately.
There were comments about bringing Mr Ms Individual Savings Account (ISA) into 
Mrs Ms portfolio. 
They failed to make use of Mrs Ms annual ISA allowance. 
There were service issues with their advisor. For example, she took too long to 
respond to correspondence.  
As a result of these issues, Mr and Mrs M feel theyve incurred a significant financial loss, as 
well has the costs of moving to a new firm. Campbell Smith responded to the complaint in 
June 2021. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Our Investigator issued a 
view. He felt it was unreasonable for Campbell Smith to deduct charges associated with 
services received by Mr M from Mrs Ms portfolio and said Campbell Smith should put things 
right. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the view. In summary, they said: 
They didnt receive the invoices issued between 2015 and 2020. They believe 
invoices were raised internally and not sent. The fees were significant and there was 
a lack of transparency which meant they werent treated fairly. 
They dont feel there was clear justification for the overall fees. There were two 
occasions in 2015 and 2016 when reports werent sent, and the service fell short 
from late 2018. Its unclear what work the drawdowns were taken for on 28 March 
2019 and 27 November 2020. 
The mandates were signed but undated so its not clear when they came into force. 
The redress suggested by our Investigator doesnt recognize Campbell Smiths 
failings. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to our service, and I wanted to provide 
assurance that I have considered everything. Where a point has not been specifically 
mentioned, it doesnt mean I havent thought about it, but simply I dont think I need to refer 
to it to reach the right decision here. 
Withdrawals from Mrs Ms portfolio
Ive not seen evidence which satisfies me that Mrs M agreed for charges associated with Mr 
Ms account to be deducted from her own portfolio. Mrs M took out a discretionary managed 
portfolio in 2014. I understand in 2015 Mrs M also sought advice and services on some of 
his investments including his stocks and shares ISA. This was separate to Mrs M and the 
mandates I have seen were in sole names and signed separately. 
The correspondence and meeting notes also confirm Mr and Mrs M received separate 
financial advice. For example, Mrs M approached Campbell Smith as an individual in July 
2014. So, I dont think Mrs M agreed for time spent advising Mr M (or fair contributions to 
joint advice) to be charged against her portfolio. 
As it would have been financially detrimental for Mrs M and related to services she didnt 
personally receive  Id expect there to be a clear agreement. In the absence of one, 
Campbell Smith should not have deducted fees charged in relation to Mr Ms instructions or 
his contribution towards joint advice. 
However, these fees would have always needed to have been paid and its more likely than 
not that Mr M would have agreed for them to be paid from his investments. This is similar to 
Mrs M and he also signed the mandate to confirm as such. Therefore, Mrs Ms portfolio has 
seen a reduction in capital and growth on this capital, where Mr Ms investment has gained, 
and this should be put right. Ill come back to this below. 
Transparency and level of fees
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M have said they werent provided with invoices until they requested 
them. Our Investigator explained why he felt the invoices had been sent  they were 
generated and correctly addressed. In Campbell Smiths response to the complaint, they 
have said some invoices would have been provided during meetings, and some were sent. 
Having reviewed the information, Im satisfied Campbell Smith were clear about their 
charging structure and hourly rate. For example, Ive reviewed the initial documentation and 
can see they explained their hourly rates. Im satisfied these terms were agreed by both Mr 
and Mrs M in February 2010 and they signed to confirm their agreement. Ive seen these 
terms were reiterated throughout the years. This included in the review meetings. For 
example, the notes from July 2014 and September 2018 show Mr and Mrs M agreed to 
continue. 
 There was also discussion of additional costs. For example, the fact find from November 
2015 confirms there had been some discussion of the £5,200 fee and this seems to have 
been agreed at the time. 
Moreover, Mr and Mrs M signed the mandates to settle the invoices from their investments 
and so I dont think there has been any detriment here. I have noted the mandates werent 
dated, but I dont think this shows Mr and Mrs M didnt provide their agreement. Again, there 
seems to have been discussion about the mandates. For example, in the meeting note from 
a meeting in 2018 the advisor recorded confirming the fees and that she held mandates on 
file.
Additionally, payments made from the investments were recorded in the updated investment 
information regularly provided by the broker over the years. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M are 
concerned they didnt always see this. But there is evidence it was provided and available on 
request. For example, they asked to see it before the meeting in September 2018 and so an 
up-to-date report was requested.  
Mr and Mrs M have also raised concerns about the level of fees charged. I note Campbell 
Smith charged an hourly rate and used commission to offset the fees where possible. 
Campbell Smith have already set out an explanation of the queried invoices in their 
response of 4 June 2021. Theyve also provided an overview of fee invoices which Ive 
reviewed. I wont repeat the work done in detail here. However, Ive considered this against 
the correspondence and evidence provided, as well as more generally the time spent by 
Campbell Smith. 
Having done so, Im satisfied there is reasonable justification for the fees charged and they 
seem to have been charged in line with the terms of engagement. The more significant time 
spent included preparing and researching information to advise, spending time advising in 
meetings and liaising with third parties. Additionally, the advisor corresponded with Mr and 
Mrs M on an ad hoc basis. 
In response to the view Mr and Mrs M raised concerns about invoices in March 2019 and 
November 2020. In respect of the 2019 invoice, Ive seen this was discussed during the 
telephone call in February 2019 and seems to have been agreed. It reflects correspondence 
and work done for Mr and Mrs M particularly in December 2018, January 2019 and February 
2019. Ive no concerns about the fee rendered here.
 
In respect of the November 2020 invoice, I understand part of this invoice related to work in 
2018 which was not charged because Mr and Mrs M had confirmed they wanted matters on 
hold. They said theyd be in touch with the advisor when ready. Campbell Smith explained 
this covered advice for many areas during that period. And Ive seen evidence from the file 
to demonstrate this. For example, theres a meeting note on file from 8 November 2018 
where a range of topics were discussed including Mrs Ms income and mortgage repayment.  
I note Mr and Mrs M were concerned review letters were not sent in 2015 and 2016. 
Campbell Smith have provided a few reasons why they may not have been sent and I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs M would have found these letters helpful. However, this doesnt 
mean work wasnt carried out and the meetings were still conducted with next steps agreed. 
I also note a summary was sent following the meeting in 2015. If anything was unclear for Mr 
and Mrs M then it was open to them to get in touch with their advisor. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there was a lack of transparency around the fees. Campbell 
Smith clearly set out their charging structure, there is evidence the fees were discussed and 
agreed to throughout the years and further information was available and provided promptly. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with my conclusion here, Id also note that I dont think the charges were excessive and seem to have been raised in line with 
their terms of engagement. So, even where Campbell Smith might have been clearer about 
their fees  I wouldnt be asking them to do anything here as the fees were reasonably 
incurred for time spent carrying out work for Mr and Mrs M.
 
CGT and ISA Allowance 
The evidence shows the advisor was aware of the CGT exposure from the SMIT. There is 
correspondence with the broker of the wrapper provider from 2015 which confirmed he 
intended to address this issue after initial deals were dealt with. The correspondence 
confirmed the SMIT constituted 42% of Mrs Ms portfolio and was loaded with CGT. I 
understand the investment had initially been modest but had performed well before being 
transferred to Campbell Smith in 2015. 
Further to this, the evidence shows the broker reviewed the position annually and confirmed 
as such with Campbell Smith. They used what they could of the CGT allowance to encash 
the SMIT where possible. These funds were then transferred and reinvested under the 
annual ISA allowance. Im satisfied from this that Campbell Smith took reasonable steps 
here to address the issues around the SMIT, as well as looking to utilise the ISA allowance. 
 
I appreciate there may be alternative options for mitigating CGT. But this doesnt mean the 
steps taken by Campbell Smith were unreasonable. I also understand that the SMITs 
performance over the years meant exposure to further CGT. Ive seen an email from the 
advisor in January 2021 where she confirmed how they would address the CGT and Im 
satisfied it was going to be a point of discussion for the next meeting. Overall, Im satisfied 
the steps taken here were reasonable. 
Mr Ms ISA 
Ive considered the evidence and can see the bringing of Mr Ms stocks and shares ISA 
within Mrs Ms portfolio was suggested by HSBCs advisor. For example, the advisor wrote 
to Mrs M on 31 October 2014 and suggested Mr M might be happy to transfer his current 
ISA, although he would lose his ISA status, because of Mrs Ms tax position. The advisor 
went on to say it was just a suggestion and not one that needed to be taken up.
 
There is also reference to this suggestion in meeting notes. Had Mr M opted to transfer his 
ISA, it would have been brought under the same management as Mrs Ms with the intention 
of improving performance. The investments might be brought back within an ISA wrapper 
and gain the tax benefits within around two tax years. 
Overall, I dont think this recommendation was unsuitable or inappropriate. The 
consequences seem to also have been discussed and it wasnt something taken up by Mr 
and Mrs M so there has been no detriment.
Service Issues 
Ive already addressed some of the service issues which were raised in relation to Campbell 
Smiths fees. Having reviewed the file, I can see Campbell Smith mostly provided their 
service promptly. Whilst they may have not undertaken all of the reviews annually, they 
clearly monitored the investments and liaised with the broker for the wrapper provider. And 
for the most part the advisor was reasonably available for advice when it was requested. For 
example, she responded to emails quickly and looked to action Mr and Mrs Ms requests. 
However, there were occasions where Campbell Smiths service did fall short of this and Mr 
and Mrs M didnt receive as prompt a response as they could have expected. Campbell Smith have said there were issues in 2015 with an IT system change and works being 
carried out close by which effected their internet connectivity. Whilst I appreciate some of 
these factors may have been necessary and/or unavoidable, Mr and Mrs M could still expect 
to hear from their advisor within a reasonable period. 
Ive also reviewed the correspondence in respect of the concerns Mr M had about the 
discharge of the standard security from 2018 and 2019. I note he wanted this to be dealt with 
as a priority and Campbell Smith accepted these instructions were not dealt with as such. 
The advisor has apologised for this. 
However, I do recognise Mr and Mrs M chased the advisor and tried to get in contact in 
2020. For example, in their email of November 2020 they explained they hadnt heard 
anything about the discharge and requested an update. Nevertheless, the title was 
requested from the lender and kept safe before being transferred to Mr and Mrs Ms new 
solicitors. 
Ive seen Campbell Smith waived £2,500 in fees to acknowledge the IT problems they had. 
Whilst this occurred before some of the issues, Im satisfied it is appropriate in the 
circumstances and represents work undertaken on the file. So, I wont be asking Campbell 
Smith to do anything further here. 
Putting things right
The positions of Mr and Mrs Ms portfolios were affected when Campbell Smith took fees 
associated with advice for Mr M from Mrs Ms portfolios. Therefore, Campbell Smith should 
look to put Mr and Mrs M in as close to the position they would have been had those fees 
been correctly taken from Mr Ms portfolio.
A  Calculate the fees charged to Mrs Ms portfolio relating to advice and work 
carried out for Mr M
B  Calculate the loss of growth on Mrs Ms portfolio due to Mr Ms fees being 
deducted. This should be based on how Mrs Ms portfolio has actually performed 
from the date of each deduction until the date of settlement.
C  Calculate the growth on Mr Ms portfolio due to the fees not being deducted  
based on the actual growth of the portfolio up to the date of settlement.
Mr M should undertake to pay £C to Campbell Smith which can use that when paying 
£D (set out below) to Mrs M as described below
I cant direct Mr M to pay £C to Mrs M as he isnt the firm. And so, if he were to 
pay £C to Mrs M by his own accord then he should let Campbell Smith know he 
has done this. In that circumstance Campbell Smith can take that into account 
when calculating D below
This is so Mr M doesnt receive a double benefit by keeping growth of his 
investments he wouldnt have had if the fees had been properly deducted from 
his investments. 
D = either:
Where Mr M pays £C to Campbell Smith:
 A + B
Where Mr M decides to pay £C to Mrs M rather than Campbell Smith:
 (A + B)  C)
Campbell Smith pay £D to Mrs M  which is the amount reduced by fees and the loss of growth from that money not remaining invested in her portfolio.
I appreciate Campbell Smiths comments about how things should be put right. But 
ultimately Mrs M has suffered a detriment she otherwise wouldnt have, and this should be 
rectified if Mr and Mrs M accept my decision. The method outlined above is the most 
pragmatic way of putting Mrs M in as close to the position she otherwise likely would have 
been in. Therefore, it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Campbell Smith LLP should put things right in the way 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman