DRN-2351325
The complaint
Miss S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal & General) 
would not allow her to reinstate her life insurance policy when she was unable to pay her 
premiums for three months during a time when she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
In June 2015, Miss S took out a life insurance policy with Legal & General. She wanted this 
to provide a lump sum that could be used to contribute towards funeral costs. She began 
paying a premium of £10 a month. This was payable until she reached the age of 90.
However, in 2019, Miss S experienced some financial difficulties. This meant that the direct 
debit for her premium in September 2019 was returned as unpaid. Legal & General 
attempted to collect the premium a second time, but again this was unsuccessful. Miss Ss 
policy was then cancelled. 
 
Miss S spoke to Legal & General about this in November 2019, but it told her than her policy 
couldnt be reinstated. Miss S complained. She said that she had paid £480 in premiums and 
it was unfair that Legal & General wouldnt refund these. She said she feels that she has lost 
a future benefit and had given her money away for nothing. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt think Legal & General was wrong to cancel the policy when the premiums werent 
paid. He felt that it had given Miss S some time to restart the policy and contact it, but she 
didnt do so. The investigator reviewed the call recordings between Legal & General and 
Miss S and said that he couldnt see that she had made it aware of her financial 
circumstances. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the 
same reason.
Ive listened to the provided call recordings of the times that Miss S spoke with Legal & 
General. And, before her first premium was returned unpaid in September 2019, she spoke 
with Legal & General to say that she didnt feel the policy was suitable for her anymore and 
said she may want to take out a funeral plan instead, as she didnt think the cover provided 
by her existing plan was enough. A telephone appointment with a financial adviser was 
arranged for her to discuss the options available, but Miss S was unable to take the call at 
the arranged time.
I do appreciate Miss Ss circumstances, and what shes told us about the difficult time she 
was experiencing that caused her not to be able to make the payments to her plan. 
However, I havent seen that Legal & General was made aware of this through these 
conversations. 
 
I can see that Legal & General attempted to collect the direct debit again before it wrote to 
Miss S about the arrears in September and October 2019 and asked her to contact it. When 
she did contact Legal & General in November 2019, her policy had been cancelled and 
couldnt be reinstated. Legal & General has explained that this is because this type of policy 
is offered without medical underwriting, however Miss S would be able to set up a new plan 
if she wishes. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy and these set out what may happen if 
the required premiums are not paid: 
We are entitled to cancel this policy if any premiums are not paid within 30 days of their due 
date. If we cancel this policy, the policy will end and no further premiums will be collected 
and the benefit will no longer be payableWe will not refund any premiums already 
paid.
So, while I do understand Miss Ss point about the premiums that she had paid towards the 
policy before it was cancelled and why she would like these refunded, I dont think Legal & 
General should be required to do this when the policy was cancelled in line with its terms 
and conditions and the premiums Miss S did pay provided her with life cover while the plan 
was in place. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman