DRN-2709860
The complaint
V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has requested information in order to comply with tax 
regulations from the United States (US). 
What happened
Lloyds says it has to report information about accounts in line with the Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act (FATCA). Last year, Lloyds sent V a self-certification form as the automatic 
classification process it follows wasnt able to confirm whether FATCA impacted the 
company or not. 
Vs director complained to Lloyds and explained the business has no links to the US. Lloyds 
responded in July 2020 but didnt agree an error had been made. Lloyds final response said 
the information requested was required to comply with FATCA and that, if V didnt respond, it 
would pass its details to the relevant authorities. 
Vs director referred its complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
didnt find that Lloyds had made an error by sending V the form to complete and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Vs director asked to appeal and said they felt Lloyds had singled V 
out. Vs director confirmed the company only operates within the UK and has no ties to the 
US. As Vs director asked to appeal, its complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vs director has confirmed it works within the UK and has no links to the US. As a result, 
they say FATCA doesnt impact Vs activities and it shouldnt have to complete the form 
Lloyds has sent. I appreciate Vs directors point and I dont doubt what theyve told us 
concerning where the business operates or its lack of links to the US. But, Lloyds has to 
comply with FATCA reporting rules, which includes looking at whether its customers are 
affected by them. 
Vs director has asked whether its legal for Lloyds to request information on behalf of a 
foreign government or to report a failure to respond. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service and its not within our remit to say whether a business has acted illegally or not. In 
this case, Ive found information online from the UK government and HMRC about FATCA. It 
confirms information is shared with the US government under the FATCA arrangement. And 
Lloyds has explained it is required to obtain the information its requested from V in order to 
comply with the regulations. 
In this case, Lloyds says its been unable to automatically verify whether V is affected by 
FACTA or not so it sent a self-certification form for completion. Vs director says they feel its 
been singled out because the form hasnt been sent to all Lloyds customers. But, as Lloyds 
has confirmed, the reason V has been sent the form to complete is because automatic 
checks were insufficient. Lloyds also says account holders have been automatically certified 
without the requirement for more information to be provided. Im sorry to disappoint Vs 
director, but I havent found V has been unfairly selected to complete the self-certification 
form. 
Lloyds says it will pass Vs details on if it doesnt respond and assume it may be subject to 
US tax. I understand that sounds harsh, but if Lloyds cant show a response to the form it 
sent out, it has to report that to the relevant authority. Im satisfied Lloyds is right when it 
says it has to report whether its been able to verify whether an account or customer is 
impacted by FATCA. 
Im very sorry to disappoint the director of V as I can see how strongly they feel in this 
matter. But I havent found anything that shows Lloyds has made an error or treated V 
unfairly. As Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with Vs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. I leave it to Vs director to decide whether to complete the form Lloyds sent. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman