DRN-2883187
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, treated him 
unfairly when he applied for a buy to let mortgage. He says the property valuation and its 
appeal process were unfair. Mr P asks that Birmingham Midshires refunds the valuation fee 
and pays compensation, and sets up an independent appeals process. 
What happened
In mid-2020 Mr P applied to Birmingham Midshires for a buy to let mortgage through a 
broker. Birmingham Midshires instructed a surveyor to value the property. Both the valuation 
and projected rental income were lower than Mr P had expected. He says the surveyor didnt 
take account of the postcode and market comparables. He says while Birmingham Midshires 
said the appeal process would be independent this wasnt the case as the same surveyor 
did the appeal. Mr P said the surveyor was unlikely to admit hed made an error.
Due to the lower estimated rental income, Birmingham Midshires wouldnt lend the amount 
Mr P needed to borrow. Mr P says the property has since been let for more than the 
surveyors estimate.
Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the 
surveyor. While the first valuation was carried out remotely due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
when Mr P appealed it arranged a physical valuation. The investigator said Birmingham 
Midshires shouldnt have told Mr P that the appeal would be handled by a different surveyor. 
He recommended compensation of £100 for the upset caused by this.
Birmingham Midshires agreed. Mr P didnt agree. He said it wasnt right for the appeal to be 
carried out by the same surveyor. He said the fact that the property was let out for a higher 
rent showed the surveyors report was wrong. Mr P said given these errors, Birmingham 
Midshires should refund the valuation fee and pay compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P applied to Birmingham Midshires for a buy to let mortgage. As is usual, Birmingham 
Midshires asked for a valuation of the property. This was to help it decide whether the 
property was good security for the loan and how much it would lend. Birmingham Midshires 
instructed a qualified surveyor, a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. In 
the absence of an obvious error, I think it was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the 
surveyor.
The valuation was carried out in mid-2020, during the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to this the 
property was valued remotely. Both the value and estimated rental income were lower than 
Mr P expected. He appealed and asked for a physical valuation to be carried out.
Birmingham Midshires arranged for a physical valuation. The surveyor responsible for the 
remote valuation also carried out the physical valuation. He increased the property valuation 
but didnt increase the estimated monthly rental. This meant Birmingham Midshires didnt 
offer the amount Mr P wanted to borrow.
Birmingham Midshires says it doesnt guarantee which surveyor will carry out a valuation, 
but all valuers are suitably qualified with knowledge of the area. Mr P wanted a different 
surveyor to carry out the appeal. But the valuation was carried out for Birmingham Midshires 
and it doesnt require this. 
Mr P says the surveyors estimated rental income was wrong and the property has since 
been let for more than this. But what Im looking at here is whether Birmingham Midshires 
acted fairly when it appointed the valuer and relied on the valuation. I must take into account 
that this valuation was carried out at a time of uncertainty due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In 
fact, the property market has been strong. But Birmingham Midshires didnt know this in mid-
2020. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Birmingham Midshires to rely on the 
surveyors report. Theres no evidence to suggest the surveyor was biased when valuing the 
property.
The valuation fee was non-refundable, and the valuation was carried out. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require Birmingham Midshires to refund the fee.
However, Mr P had asked that the appeal be dealt with by a different surveyor. Birmingham 
Midshires should have told him it couldnt guarantee this. I think Mr P would most likely have 
still wanted the physical valuation to go ahead, and so I dont think the outcome would have 
been different. I think its right though that Birmingham Midshires pays compensation for the 
upset caused by not giving Mr P correct information. I think £100 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Birmingham Midshires, to pay £100 to Mr P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman