DRN-2684449
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited applied a late payment fee 
to his account, after telling him it wouldnt apply this charge. He also complains that 
American Express Services Europe Limited sent an email to him which should have been 
sent to a different customer and has provided him with poor service.
What happened
Mr L had a charge card account with American Express. He says he contacted American 
Express on 11 September 2010 to make a payment to the account. He says that during this 
call American Express told him it wouldnt charge him a late payment fee if he made certain 
payments to his account.
Mr L says he made the payments, as requested during the call, but despite this American 
Express still applied a late payment fee of £25 to his account. He says this is unfair and the 
late payment fee should be refunded and he should be compensated because of the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr L also says that he received an email on 12 October 2020 from American Express. He 
says that the email was meant for a different customer of American Express. He says this is 
unacceptable and he is concerned that American Express may have sent information about 
his account to someone else in error.
Mr L says hes sent letters, using the Royal Mail signed for service, to American Express to 
complain about these matters but American Express refused to accept delivery. So, he 
complained to our service about these matters.
Our investigator looked into what Mr L had said. He referred Mr Ls complaints to American 
Express and it issued a final response letter on 1 December 2020. It said it had listened to 
the call between Mr L and its manager on 11 September 2020 and Mr L had been told that if 
he paid all of his outstanding balance by 26 September 2020 no late payment fee would be 
charged. He hadnt done that. So, in accordance with the terms and conditions for his 
account a late payment fee of £12 had been charged to the account.
It said it had also considered what Mr L said about the email hed received. It apologised that 
this had happened. It said no personally identifiable information had been sent to him about 
the third party. It acknowledged however that thered been a human error and offered to 
credit £50 to his account as a gesture of goodwill.
American Express said it had also considered why Mr Ls letters were being returned. It said 
these letters hadnt been sent to an address occupied by American Express. So, it said it 
wasnt responsible for what had happened when the letters were refused.
Mr L didnt accept what American Express had said. He asked our investigator to look into 
the complaint. Our investigator issued his view about the complaint.
He thought that American Express should refund the £12 late payment fee it had charged on 
26 September 2020. He thought that American Express hadnt clearly explained to Mr L the 
consequences of not paying the balance in full before that date. And, he thought Mr L had 
been given the impression that no further late payment charges would be applied if he made 
the payments discussed during the call.
He thought that American Express had acted fairly and reasonably when it had offered to 
pay £50 for what happened when Mr L received an email in error. And, he said there was no 
evidence to indicate that American Express had given Mr L an incorrect address. 
Mr L didnt agree. He thought American Express should be required to pay compensation in 
addition to the £12 fee refund, given the stress and inconvenience hed gone through to get 
this fee refunded. He also said he couldnt see where American Express had paid him 
compensation of £50 for sending him the email in error.
Mr L also produced evidence to show that other letters hed sent to American Express, at the 
same address as hed sent the most recent letters to, had been signed for when they were 
delivered. 
In light of everything that had happened, Mr L thought American Express shouldnt charge 
him the annual membership fee.
Our investigator considered what Mr L had said but he didnt change his view. He said that 
American Express had said it would charge the annual membership fee and if Mr L 
disagreed, he would need to raise a separate complaint about that.
Because Mr L disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just point out that Mr L has raised a number of complaints with our service. 
In this decision, Im only dealing with the following issues:
The late payment fee charged on 26 September 2020;
The email sent to Mr L in error on 12 October 2020; and
The mail sent to American Express which was returned to Mr L.
These are discrete issues and although Mr L has raised other complaints about how 
American Express has treated him, I wont be dealing with those here. The three issues 
mentioned above were dealt with by American Express in its final response letter to Mr L 
dated 1 December 2020. The other issues Mr L has raised will need to be dealt with 
separately.
The late payment fee charged on 26 September 2020
Ive listened to the telephone call which took place on 11 September 2020. The call covered 
a number of points, but the complaint Mr L has raised here, relates to the fact that he says 
he was told that if he made certain payments, no late payment fees would be applied to his 
account.
During the call American Express did tell Mr L that it would refund a late payment fee which 
had been applied in August. It had already refunded a late payment fee applied in July. I can 
see that both of these fees were refunded. He was then told that if he didnt pay the balance by 26 September 2020 charges would be applied. That was in line with what the terms and 
conditions for the account stated.
Mr L said he wanted to clear the balance on the card. He said he was fed up with the 
constant letters and telephone calls he was getting from American Express. He said hed 
been trying to pay online but had experienced issues with the system.
There was then a discussion about how the balance could be paid. American Express 
suggested that he might want to spread the payments, if he was having financial difficulties. 
Mr L engaged in this discussion and agreed to make an immediate payment of a substantial 
part of the balance. He was then told that if he paid a further £233.18 before 26 September, 
his account would not be cancelled. 
There was no discussion at this stage of the call about late payment fees. And, having 
listened to everything that was being said, I wouldnt have expected American Express to 
apply a late payment fee after Mr L made a further payment on 16 September of £300. It is 
the case that he was prepared to pay the full outstanding amount on 11 September had 
American Express not engaged in discussions with him about making a smaller payment. 
And, if hed been told that a further late payment fee of £12 would be charged, I think he 
wouldve paid the balance in full.
In these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to require American Express to 
refund that late payment fee of £12 to him. And, I uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr L has referred to a late payment fee of £25 being applied to his account after the phone 
call with American Express. But, I havent seen any evidence to support that. The only late 
payment fee applied after the date of the phone call appears to have been the £12 fee 
applied to his account on 26 September 2020.
Mr L also thinks he should receive compensation because of the trouble hes been put to 
making his complaint about this matter. When considering whether compensation should be 
paid we take into account the impact that the businesss actions had on the consumer. And, 
its not always the case, that just because a business has made a mistake and the consumer 
has had to spend time progressing a complaint that compensation should be paid. 
In this case, Mr Ls complaint was one of a number of issues he raised with American 
Express and which were addressed in its final response letter dated 1 December 2020. I can 
understand that Mr L wouldve been frustrated when he noticed that the late payment fee 
had been charged. But Im not satisfied that the impact of what happened as regards the fee 
being charged is such that its sufficient to justify an award for distress and inconvenience. 
So, although I think American Express should refund the £12 late payment fee, I dont think it 
is appropriate for an additional award to be made to Mr L because of the time hes spent 
having to pursue this issue. 
The email sent to Mr L in error
Mr L has told our service about an email he received in October 2020. American Express 
accepts that, in error, it did send an email to Mr Ls email address that shouldve been sent 
to a different consumer. It says this was due to human error.
It says there was no personally identifiable information in the email and its assured Mr L that 
it hasnt sent any emails to third parties that shouldve been sent to him.
I can understand why Mr L wouldve been concerned when he received this email. And he 
wouldve worried that information about his account may also have been sent by email to an incorrect email address. So, Ive looked at the information American Express has provided to 
us.
The email sent to Mr L in error does include the consumers name as part of the salutation 
and also the complaint reference number. There was information about the nature of the 
complaint that the consumer had raised and the proposed resolution. But, having read 
through the rest of the email there is nothing in the content of the email which provides 
information that wouldve enabled Mr L to identify who the consumer was. 
It is the case that the email shouldnt have been sent to Mr L and American Express 
shouldve taken more care before sending out this email. American Express has accepted 
this shouldnt have happened. It also assured Mr L that no information was sent to any third 
party about his account. And it offered to pay him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr L says he cannot see where American Express has paid him the £50 its referred to. 
American Express has sent our service evidence to show that it applied a credit adjustment 
of £50 to his account on 1 December 2020. This wouldve shown up on the statement issued 
to Mr L on 26 December 2020.
Having considered what happened and the response that American Express sent, I think it 
has acted fairly and reasonably. I dont require it to do anything more.
The returned mail
Mr L says he sent letters by recorded delivery to an address given to him by American 
Express. Hes provided evidence, from Royal Mail, that these letters have been refused. He 
says that previous letters to this same address have been accepted.
American Express says that the address hes sent the letters to is not an address that it 
uses, and its provided evidence that the address is occupied by a different business. Ive 
looked at this information and I can see that the address is not registered in the name of 
American Express.
Having thought about what happened here, Im satisfied that the address on the returned 
mail is not the correct address for American Express. I also havent seen any evidence to 
support what Mr L has told us about American Express having given him an incorrect 
address. 
It may be that previous correspondence sent by Mr L to this address was re-directed to 
American Express. Theres no evidence to say why it also wasnt returned. But, I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to say that American Express is responsible for mail returned from an 
address that was not registered to it.
Summary
Having considered everything here, I agree with what our investigator said concerning the 
refund of the late payment fee. I dont agree that any other part of Mr Ls complaint should 
be upheld, and I dont require American Express to do anything else to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about American Express 
Services Europe Limited. I now require it to:
refund the late payment fee applied to Mr Ls account on 26 September 2020.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman