DRN-1880713
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account and recorded a CIFAS 
marker against her name. She says this had a huge impact on her life and she wants 
compensation, in particular for being out of work for two years. 
CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud alert services.
What happened
Following an investigation into some transactions on Miss Bs account in January 2017, 
Barclays decided to close Miss Bs account. It also recorded a CFIAS marker against her 
name.
Miss B says she was out of the country for around three months when the transactions took 
place and the account was closed; and that she didnt have access to her bank account or 
her bank card. She realised her account had been closed when she returned home. She 
complained to Barclays about the CIFAS marker in August 2019.
Barclays said it had closed Miss Bs account in line with its terms and conditions. But, 
following the information provided by Miss B, it removed the CIFAS marker and paid her 
£100 compensation.
Miss B referred her complaint to us, because she wanted considerably higher compensation.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays should pay Miss B £300 in total. He thought this 
fairly reflected the trouble and upset directly linked to the CIFAS marker.
Barclays agreed with the investigators view.
Miss B said she thought the compensation figure should be considerably higher and would 
be willing to accept £5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for much the same 
reasons.
I find Barclays acted in line with its terms and conditions when it closed Miss Bs account. 
I can see it wrote to tell her about its decision, although Miss B wouldnt have received this 
letter until she returned home a couple of months later. She hadnt told Barclays she was 
going to be out of the country for so long, so it couldnt reasonably have known that she 
didnt have access to her account.
Its not clear to me why Miss B didnt contact the bank earlier than she did to complain about 
the CIFAS marker and to explain to the bank that shed been out of the country. But I can 
see from what shes told us that she may not have fully understood at the time what the 
CIFAS marker meant and what impact this might have on her. Im pleased the CIFAS marker 
has now been removed which should make things easier for Miss B. 
The only matter left for me to decide is the amount of compensation Barclays should pay 
Miss B.
Im sorry to hear of Miss Bs experiences over the last couple of years, and I do sympathise. 
But I agree with our investigator  I cant directly link everything shes told us with Barclays 
decision to record a CIFAS marker against her name. I accept the marker will have had 
some impact  in particular making it difficult for Miss B to open an account elsewhere and to 
apply for other financial products. Having considered this very carefully  and taking into 
account that Barclays was only provided with the information it needed to remove the marker 
in August 2019 - I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss B £200, in addition to the 
£100 it has already paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman