DRN-3396680
The complaint
Mr J and X complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) removed the fee waiver from their Gold 
Account (GA) in September 2021.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J and X say that theyve had a GA for many years and didnt have to pay a monthly fee 
as they kept their balance above a certain level and benefited from the fee waiver. They say 
Lloyds promised to provide this arrangement until they were 80 years of age. But they say 
Lloyds has now removed the fee waiver without their agreement.
Lloyds says it has removed the fee waiver after giving Mr J and X adequate notice under the 
terms and conditions of the GA, and it has not guaranteed to provide a such a product to any 
customer until they reach a certain age.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr J and X have said, and I dont doubt their honest 
recollections on the matter, but I think its more likely than not that their memory may be 
mistaken.
I say this because I have no evidence from either party to prove or disprove what is alleged 
to have been said, so I can only consider what evidence I have available today to decide this 
matter.
Ive not seen anything in the terms and conditions of the GA available over many years from 
Lloyds about guaranteeing the fee waiver arrangement until a certain age.
And in my experience of packaged bank account casework and looking at many terms and 
conditions of many fee paying accounts from Lloyds and other financial institutions, they 
always include an agreement that both parties can close or change the account with a 
reasonable notice period at any time.
So, although I know Mr J and X will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not Lloyds 
has not provided a promise that they can keep their fee waiver until they were a certain age. 
And I think Lloyds was entitled to make a commercial decision at any time to remove the fee 
waiver. I can see it provided reasonable notice to Mr J and X, so I dont think it did anything 
wrong when it did so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr J and Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman