DRN-2872876
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to recall a payment he made 
to an incorrect account.
What happened
Mr G says he sent his brother £500 to an account with a bank I will call L, but to an 
incorrect account. He says he thought this account was closed and the money would be 
returned but it wasnt. Mr G says he has since found out his brothers L account was still 
open and had an overdrawn balance. He would like the money returned.
Barclays says it contacted L, but it said the account was still open and wouldnt return the 
money. It says it made the request as soon as Mr G told it about the problem and told him 
why it couldnt return the money. Barclays accepts it didnt deal appropriately with Mr G 
when he called about this issue and has apologised for its customer service.
Mr G had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had tried to recall the payment, but it was L that refused to return the 
money which Barclays wasnt responsible for. The investigator thought the customer service 
issue was fairly dealt with by an apology and that compensation wasnt justified for not 
raising the complaint when Mr G called.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says his brother is not in a position to complain about L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has tried to help Mr G and has 
dealt fairly with the main part of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr G made and authorised the £500 payment to his brothers open L 
account. I appreciate Mr G made a mistake but that is not something I can fairly hold 
Barclays responsible for. Im also satisfied that as soon as Barclays was told about the 
problem it acted fairly and quickly by contacting L. I am sure Mr G appreciates that it was Ls 
decision not to return the money and not Barclays.
I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for what took place and think it did everything it could 
to try and get Mr Gs money returned. I dont think it could have done any more to help Mr G 
and if Mr Gs brother wishes to make a complaint to L then he is free to do so. 
I appreciate that Barclays ought to have raised a complaint about what took place when Mr 
G complained to it. I dont think even if it did, that would have made any difference to the 
outcome here. And Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for that mistake which I 
dont think justifies compensation, as the impact was minimal.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays tried to help Mr G but cant be held responsible for the actions 
of a different bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman