DRN-4411388
The complaint
Ms C complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has terminated 
benefit for an incapacity claim she made on her employers income protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties and so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Ms C is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover if Ms C became incapacitated due to sickness or injury. Ms Cs employer 
chose to take out progressive incapacity cover. That meant that for the first two years of a 
claim, L&G would assess a claim in line with the own occupation policy definition of 
incapacity; for the following two years, it would assess a claim in line with the suited 
occupation definition; and after that, it would assess a claim in line with activities of daily 
working (ADW) criteria.
Unfortunately, in 2016, Ms C was diagnosed with myeloma and became unfit for work. She 
underwent chemotherapy treatment, which remains ongoing. And she was diagnosed with 
carpal tunnel syndrome and osteoarthritic changes, amongst other things. So Ms Cs 
employer made an incapacity claim on her behalf.
L&G accepted Ms Cs claim in 2017. The claim was assessed and paid in line with an own 
occupation definition of incapacity for two years, and subsequently, the claim was assessed 
and paid in line with the suited occupation definition. However, the relevant definition of 
incapacity switched to ADW. Therefore, L&G appointed a vocational clinical specialist (VCS) 
to carry out a face-to-face ADW assessment with Ms C. This assessment took place in May 
2022.
The VCS didnt find that Ms C had shown she fulfilled the requisite number of L&Gs ADW 
criteria. Based on the VCS report, L&G concluded that Ms C no longer met the relevant 
definition of incapacity. And so it terminated her claim in July 2022.
Ms C was unhappy with L&Gs decision and she appealed. She provided supporting 
evidence from one of her treating specialists. 
However, L&G maintained its stance and so Ms C asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. Briefly, she felt that given 
the VCS assessment had been face-to-face, it was more persuasive evidence than the letter 
provided by Ms Cs specialist. And she thought it was reasonable for L&G to rely on the VCS 
report to conclude that Ms C no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. Therefore she 
thought it was fair for L&G to terminate the claim.
Ms C disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She explained her 
medical conditions and symptoms and had these conditions impacted on her day-to-day life 
and her ADW. She explained the effect the chemotherapy had on her. She didnt think the 
VCS assessment of May 2022 reflected her current position or capabilities. And she also felt 
that she should be assessed under the own occupation definition of incapacity.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Ms C, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to 
terminate her claim in July 2022 and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms C  that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and her detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all thats been said 
and sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been 
made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues.
It's also important that I make the parameters of this decision clear. I will only be considering 
the evidence which was available to L&G in December 2022  at the point it issued its final 
response to Ms Cs complaint, endorsing its decision to terminate benefit in July 2022. Ms C 
has now provided us with new information and evidence about her health and I understand 
that she has also sent a copy of this evidence to L&G for assessment. It will be for L&G to let 
Ms C know the outcome of any further assessment of her claim, based on that new 
evidence. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to make any finding on that new evidence as part 
of this decision. If Ms C is unhappy with any new claims decision L&G makes, she may be 
able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and conditions and the 
available evidence, to decide whether I think L&G has handled Miss Cs claim fairly.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
show that they have a valid claim on their policy. This means that at the outset, it was Ms Cs 
responsibility to provide L&G with enough medical and other evidence to demonstrate that 
she met the policy definition of incapacity. Its common ground that L&G was satisfied that 
Ms C was incapacitated in line with the policy terms and it accepted her claim in 2017. Once 
an insurer accepts an income protection insurance claim, the burden of proof switches. I 
generally take the view that in order for it to terminate Ms Cs claim fairly and reasonably, 
L&G needs to provide enough evidence to show that Ms C no longer meets the definition of 
incapacity.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Ms Cs 
employers contract with L&G. L&G concluded that Ms C no longer met the policy definition 
of incapacity and so Ive looked closely at the definition of incapacity which applied to Ms Cs 
employers scheme. The relevant policy schedule shows that Ms Cs employer had selected 
a progressive definition of incapacity. I appreciate Ms C feels this isnt the definition which 
should apply to her claim. However, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for L&G to 
consider Ms Cs claim in line with the progressive definition. The contract defines this as 
follows:
ProgressiveMeans for an insured member, payment of benefit under this policy is assessed against:
i.  own occupation for a period of two years starting on the benefit start date, then
ii. suited occupation for the next two years, then
ii. activities of daily working thereafter.
The evidence indicates that at the time of the VCS assessment, Ms Cs claim had been in 
payment for over four years. So I find it was fair and reasonable for L&G to consider Ms Cs 
claim in line with the ADW criteria at that point. Ive set these out below:
Activities of daily working
Means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he meets (with or 
without aids or adaptations) at least three of the criteria in Section A or one of the criteria in 
Section B below:
Section A
i. Walking: cannot walk more than 200 metres on a level surface without stopping 
due to breathlessness, angina or severe pain elsewhere in the body.
NOTE: a claim under this section should be supported by evidence that the insured 
member has been prescribed and is taking appropriate medication.
ii. Rising/Sitting: is unable to rise and sit using a raised chair with arms without the 
help of another person.
iii. Dexterity: is unable to write legibly with a pen or pencil or use a keyboard with 
either hand.
iv. Communication: cannot (a) clearly hear (with a hearing aid or other aid if normally 
used) conversational speech in a quiet room in his first language, or (b) understand 
simple messages in his first language; or (c) speak with sufficient clarity to be clearly 
understood in his first language.
v. Eyesight: visual ability is reduced to the extent that functional abilities are affected 
and independent functioning without physical assistance from another person in a 
workplace is impossible, even with the use of assistive devices.
Section B
Severe mental illness means the diagnosis by a Specialist Consultant Psychiatrist of one of 
the following
i.  Schizophrenia, Bipolar Affective Disorder, Paranoid (delusional) psychosis, schizo 
affective disorder or
 Severe depressive illness which:
- has chronic unremitting symptoms; and
- has not responded to comprehensive management and treatment and which   
the individual has complied with for a period of greater than 12 months; and
- has resulted in an inpatient admission to a psychiatric ward for more than  
seven consecutive nights.
The insured member's ability to think, communicate and behave appropriately must be so 
impaired as to significantly interfere with his ability to deal with the ordinary demands of life.
ii. Organic brain disease or injury: suffers from chronic organic brain disease or brain 
injury (confirmed by neurological investigation or imaging techniques) affecting the 
insured member's ability to reason and understand to the extent that they require 
continual supervision by another person 24 hours a day.Ive gone on to consider then whether I think L&G has provided enough evidence to show 
that Ms C no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive considered the available 
medical reports and VCS notes, amongst other things. There is little available objective 
medical evidence from between 2021 and early 2022 to support that Ms C couldnt complete 
the ADW. I note that in a letter dated  February 2022, Ms Cs haematologist stated:
I do not think your daily activities, such as personal care and household chores are affected 
by these symptoms, although I understand if your vulnerability to infection does affect your 
social activities.
Based on the haematologists letter, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to require 
further evidence to allow it to consider whether Ms C still met the ADW definition of 
incapacity. It isnt unusual for income protection insurers to require claimants to undergo 
medical assessment while a claim is in payment. And so I dont think it was unfair for L&G to 
ask the VCS to carry out a face-to-face assessment to determine whether Ms C met the 
ADW criteria.
The VCS provided a report of their findings and Ive summarised what I think are their key 
conclusions. They were satisfied that, based on their observations of Ms C, she had shown 
she couldnt walk more than 200 metres on the flat. But they didnt think shed shown she 
met the rising/sitting criteria. The report stated:
The member was observed to stand up independently, at least three times, from an 
armchair located in the kitchen/dining room.
Nor did the VCS think Ms C had shown she met the dexterity criteria. They noted:
The member was not observed to write or use a keyboard at the time of the visit, however 
she reported that she will use her desktop computer on a daily basis to read and respond to 
emails. Additionally, she described that she uses (an app) on her mobile phone to 
communicate with her family... The member also reported that although her husband 
predominantly drives, she continues to drive locally to shops; this activity requires good 
dexterity of both hands for control and operation of the car.
In my opinion the member has the ability to write legibly with a pen or pencil or use a 
keyboard with either hand.
Additionally, the VCS didnt think Ms C met any of the remaining criteria under Section A of 
the ADW, or any of the Section B criteria. This would appear to tie-in with the 
haematologists view in February 2022. On that basis, L&G didnt think Ms C had met the 
ADW criteria overall. Given the nature of the assessment and the expert opinion of the VCS, 
I dont find this to have been an unfair conclusion for L&G to draw. And so I think it was fair 
for L&G to conclude that Ms C no longer met the policy definition of incapacity and to 
terminate benefit.
Following its decision, Ms C appealed and provided L&G with evidence from her orthopaedic 
specialist. In October 2022, the specialist stated:
(Ms C) has difficulty putting on her shoes and socks. She also has great difficulty rising from
a seated position and needs assistance. Her walking distance is limited to approximately 100 
metres, after which she has to stop and rest. She has great difficulty managing the stairs and 
can climb approximately 10 steps before she has to rest holding onto the handrail as the hip 
locks in that position. She is due to have a hip replacement, however given her myeloma 
diagnosis this will need to be co- ordinated with her myeloma treatment. Ive thought very carefully about all of the medical evidence that was available to L&G when 
it issued its response to Ms Cs complaint in December 2022. Im not a medical expert and 
so my decision is necessarily based on a weighing-up of the available expert evidence to 
decide which I find most persuasive. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im more 
persuaded by the findings of the VCS during the face-to-face assessment than the 
orthopaedic surgeons evidence. Thats because the VCS had the opportunity to observe Ms 
C, at first hand, during the assessment. It isnt clear whether the specialists evidence is 
based on observed symptoms, or Ms Cs self-reported symptoms. And Ive also borne in 
mind that the VCS report appears to correlate with the haematologists letter of February 
2022 in regard to Ms Cs ability to carry out ADW. 
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Ms Cs position, I think that L&G has 
provided enough evidence to show, on balance, that Ms C no longer meets the policy 
definition of incapacity. And so while I appreciate that my decision is likely to be upsetting for 
her, I find it was fair and reasonable for L&G to terminate her incapacity claim in July 2022.
Ms C has also referred to a potential claim for Permanent Total Disability. However, this isnt 
a benefit of the group income protection insurance policy she holds. It appears to be a 
benefit of a different group insurance scheme. So I cant comment any further on that issue 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman