DRN-3816492
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a bond by Gallium Fund Solutions Limited in 2017. He 
says the bond was unsuitable for him based on the level of risk associated with it.
Mr D is being represented in this complaint by his nephew. However, for ease of reference, 
my decision will only refer to Mr D.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr D invested £5,000 in a B&G Plc 3-Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond in 
September 2017. Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a 
separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd 
arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it 
was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to 
call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ds investment in the bond
Mr D explained he was made aware of the bond by an individual who had previously helped 
him set up his will. Mr D cannot recall completing an online application. However, from the 
information available, it would appear that the application was made online in September 
2017. So either Mr D did complete it and now simply can't recall doing so, or someone 
completed it on his behalf.  Its unclear how much the individual who introduced the 
investment to Mr D was involved in the application. However, Gallium has confirmed that it 
had no connection with the individual and no commission was paid to him. As such, I think it 
is fair and reasonable to find that, if the individual did complete the online application for Mr 
D, their role was only to assist, or facilitate, and they would therefore have likely simply 
relayed the questions asked during the application process to Mr D, and recorded his 
answers. I have seen no evidence to show that if anyone else completed the application for 
Mr D they would not have taken the same approach. And so I think it reasonable to 
approach this as if Mr D himself had completed the online application.
Mr D says he was in his late seventies at the time and he had limited investment experience, 
having only ever previously held a share portfolio account with the money invested in that 
now contained within a cash ISA. There are no call recordings between Mr D and BG Ltd.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr D has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
As explained, the application appears to have been made online on 4 September 2017. I 
have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr D underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr D 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ds complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said Mr D had been given sufficient informaiton 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ds 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ds complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr D as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules. 
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr D wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr D to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
D for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Regardless of label, Mr D was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr D giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers- and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.Mr D made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a 
communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I 
also consider to be relevant here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr D into certifying himself as 
belonging in a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr D fairly or 
acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr D, it 
is unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr D. In the 
circumstances Mr D would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr 
D.  For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ds complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr D would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr D for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put
Mr D as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in an 
inappropriate investment.
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest as set out below.
Pay Mr D £350 for distress caused by the loss of the investment. Mr D was in his 
late seventies with health issues and its clear this caused him some upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
3-year 
Compoundi
ng High-
Yield BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr D agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr D that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
   I think Mr D wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr D would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman