DRN-2406857
The complaint
Mr W complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie prevented him from accessing his money. Hes 
also unhappy it failed to respond to his emails and phone calls. 
What happened
PayPal told Mr W it was placing a limitation on his account, and hed be unable to 
access the balance for six months. When six months passed and Mr W still couldnt 
access his money, he contacted PayPal multiple times to find out what was 
happening, but he didnt get a response.
Mr W raised a complaint. PayPal said it needed further documentation which Mr W 
provided straightaway. PayPal removed the limitation from Mr Ws account and 
offered him £60 in recognition of the frustration the matter had caused.
Mr W didnt think PayPals offer went close to reflecting what it had put him through, 
so he asked our service to look into his complaint.
After investigating, whilst our investigator felt PayPal hadnt done anything wrong by 
initially placing a limitation on Mr Ws account, she didnt think £60.00 went far 
enough to reflect the service that followed, and specifically the impact itd had on Mr 
W. Our investigator thought PayPal should increase the compensation it paid Mr W 
to £1,000. 
Mr W still felt £1,000 wasnt enough. He said the matter had impacted his mental 
health and diminished his standing in the community he lived in, putting his residency 
at risk. Mr W said he thought £5,000 would be a fair reflection on the distress hed 
been caused.
Paypal also disagreed our investigators opinion was fair. It acknowledged thered 
been issues relating to the customer service itd provided but could find no evidence 
Mr W had tried to contact it by phone. PayPal said it was willing to increase its offer 
of compensation to £500. 
As neither party was satisfied with our investigators response the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Theres no dispute in this case there were issues relating to the customer service 
provided by PayPal to Mr W. What remains in dispute is what fairly compensates him 
for the distress and inconvenience those issues caused.
On PayPals instruction, Mr W waited six months for the limitation on his account to 
be lifted, during which, to pay his rent he had to borrow small amounts from fellow 
residents on the promise hed pay them back when the limitations on his account 
were lifted.
I dont dispute PayPal placing the initial limitation on Mr Ws account but after six 
months passed and his account remained locked, Ive seen he made efforts to 
contact PayPal without response. Mr W went without access to his funds for over five 
months longer than hed been originally told without an explanation as to why.
PayPal say Mr Ws email address didnt match the one linked to his account and that 
it has no record of him trying to contact it by telephone. But Ive seen Mr W did 
provide the correct email address in his communication. And he both referred to his 
phone calls not being responded to and provided his contact number. Ive no reason 
to doubt Mr W did try and call PayPal. PayPal has also acknowledged its call centers 
were closed during this period so Im satisfied Mr W did make every effort to resolve 
the matter, without success.  
PayPal have been provided a detailed explanation of Mr Ws residential 
circumstances, and the impact this matter has had on him. So here Ive provided a 
brief summary, and in my own words. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W resides within a close-knit community where he says to be a resident requires 
good character and the utmost financial probity. He says breaking promises as to 
when he could repay money diminished his standing and risked his tenancy being 
cancelled.
Mr W has said he has lost friends as a result of not repaying his debts  friends who 
have sadly passed before his funds were released, and he could repay them. He 
says his mental health and welfare has been impacted greatly. 
Ive thought about how to fairly resolve Mr Ws complaint. We consider compensation 
on an individual basis, and Ive carefully considered how the problems Mr W has 
complained about have impacted him. Mr W has said he can provide a medical 
summary which shows his mental health was affected by the problems raised, but I 
dont consider that necessary. Im satisfied Mr W has been unfairly affected by the 
issues he has told us about. 
Whilst I note PayPal agreed to pay a further £440, taking the total award for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to £500, Im not persuaded that fairly reflects the 
impact on Mr W. Considering the circumstances of this complaint, I think PayPal 
should increase the award for the distress caused by its actions from £60 to £1,000. 
In my opinion, that figure more fairly reflects the impact of the complaint on Mr W.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie should pay Mr W £1,000 for the trouble and 
upset caused by its mistakes.  My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
In order to resolve Mr Ws complaint, PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA should pay Mr W 
£1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman