DRN-4000310
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Shawbrook Bank Limited is holding him liable for a loan applied for in his 
name as part of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
In May 2022 Mr W was unfortunately caught up in a crypto investment scam. As part of the 
scam, Mr W provided the scammer with personal information to facilitate the opening of a 
crypto exchange account with a business which Ill refer to as N. Mr W says the scammer 
then used this information to apply for three loans in his name.
On 26 May 2022 a loan with Shawbrook for £15,000 was applied for. As part of the 
application process, Shawbrook spoke to Mr W about the purpose of the loan and its 
affordability. During the call, Mr W said the loan was for home improvements. Shawbrook 
approved the loan, and it was paid into Mr Ws bank account on 27 May 2022. The £15,000 
loan funds were then all transferred to N on 30 May 2022. 
The funds from all three loans are no longer in Mr Ws account with N and has unfortunately 
been lost as part of the scam.
Realising hed been the victim of a scam, Mr W contacted Shawbrook on 30 May 2022. 
Shawbrook conducted a fraud investigation which it didnt uphold because it said the loan 
had been obtained through misrepresentation and falsehood. Shawbrook said had Mr W 
confirmed the true purpose of the loan (for an investment) the loan application would never 
have been granted. 
Mr W complained to Shawbrook. He said the scammer forced him to take the loan out  and 
promised it would be paid back. Mr W said he had no paperwork from Shawbrook, nor had 
he signed anything or received the loan agreement. Mr W was also concerned that 
Shawbrook hadnt carried out sufficient affordability checks. 
Shawbrook didnt agree. It said it had processed the loan application correctly and Mr W had 
confirmed the application details during the 26 May 2022 phone call. Shawbrook said it had 
been Mr Ws decision to transfer the funds out of his account  something it had no control 
over. 
Whilst sympathetic to the fact Mr W was the victim of a scam, Shawbrook said he should 
bear responsibility for allowing this to happen and for being fully aware that he was providing 
false information during the 26 May 2022 phone call. 
In terms of the affordability checks, Shawbrook said all necessary checks were carried out 
and the application was accepted based on the information provided. 
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He maintained he didnt take the 
loan out and hadnt signed a loan agreement. And he questioned whether Shawbrook had 
carried out robust enough affordability checks. Mr W asked how it was possible for three 
loans to be taken out in such close succession without that impacting the affordability checks 
Shawbrook carried out. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. She found Mr W had 
agreed to the loan being taken out. And based on the information provided to Shawbrook as 
part of the application, she didnt think Shawbrook had lent to Mr W irresponsibly. 
Mr W disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision. He reiterated that he had never seen nor signed a credit agreement from 
Shawbrook. And that hed only confirmed the loan over the phone with Shawbrook because 
he was being threatened by the scammer. 
Mr W wanted to know why Shawbrook hadnt required proof that he could afford the loan  
and whether proper checks had been done into his disposable income given his name was 
misspelt on the application.
Mr W maintained he didnt take the loan out and shouldnt be responsible for repaying it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr W and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence  including the phone recording 
from 26 May 2022 and further information Mr W has sent as part of my review about his 
salary and expenditure. Id like to assure Mr W that if I dont mention a particular point, its 
not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be 
important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I dont doubt that Mr W has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated crypto investment 
scam. But I must be mindful that he provided his information to the scammer to allow the 
loan with Shawbrook to be applied for and, even more significantly, he himself confirmed the 
application to Shawbrook in the 26 May 2022 phone call. As part of my review, Ive listened 
to that call. 
Shawbrook specifically says it wants to speak to Mr W about the terms of the loan. He 
confirms he signed the loan agreement (electronically) and that the monthly payments were 
affordable. Mr W says the full loan amount was for home improvements  specifically a new 
kitchen and bathroom. Mr W confirmed his bank details and Shawbrook approved the loan. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr W agreed to take the lending, albeit at the direction of the 
scammer. And so, I think its fair for Shawbrook to hold Mr W liable for the loan including the 
applicable interest and charges. It is also fair that the situation is accurately reported to 
Credit Reference Agencies. 
Mr W has also alleged that the loan was unaffordable for him. So, Ive considered the 
affordability checks carried out by Shawbrook. 
Shawbrook needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Shawbrook needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
The information Shawbrook has provided to us suggests it carried out credit checks, which I 
can see where based on the correct spelling of Mr Ws name, before it provided the loan. 
Mr W also declared an annual salary of £30,000 on the application.  Shawbrook didnt verify 
this at the time, which I think it shouldve done. But Mr W has provided evidence as part of 
my review that his annual salary at the time of the application was circa £30,000. So, I cant 
say Shawbrooks failure to verify Mr Ws income made any material difference to the lending 
decision.  
Shawbrooks credit checks showed that Mr W held two credit cards, a joint mortgage, two 
communications accounts and two current accounts with overdraft facilities. All of his credit 
commitments were up to date with no evidence of current or historic financial difficulties. The 
two credit cards had a zero balance, and he wasnt utilising either of his overdrafts. While 
Mr W had very recently taken out two other loans with other providers, these werent visible 
on the credit check, as it was too soon for any mention of those loans to have appeared on 
Mr Ws credit records. 
Shawbrooks checks showed that although Mr Ws financial circumstances appeared to be in 
good order, he had access to a relatively large amount of credit already. There was therefore 
the possibility that this loan may have caused Mr W to become overindebted. And so, I think 
it was reasonable and proportionate for Shawbrook to have also asked for more information 
from Mr W about his regular committed expenditure. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements for the three months preceding the loan application to 
see what Mr W would likely have declared if Shawbrook had asked him about his essential 
expenditure. Im not suggesting that Shawbrook were required to ask for them, but in the 
absence of anything else, I think these give a good indication of what Mr W was likely to 
have declared if asked. They show that Mr W paid the entire mortgage even though it was 
joint, but his partner paid most of the household bills. After considering the essential 
committed expenditure visible on the statements, Im not persuaded that further checks 
would have revealed any affordability concerns. And, even if Shawbrook had gone further 
than I think it was required to  and verified Mr Ws expenditure  Im not persuaded the 
bank statements demonstrate Shawbrook ought to have been concerned about the 
affordability of the loan.
So, I cant say Shawbrook lent the £15,000 to Mr W irresponsibly.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to prevent Shawbrook from pursuing Mr W for the loan or for it to 
report the loan to Mr Ws credit file. So, Im not going to tell Shawbrook to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman