DRN-4323928
The complaint
Miss S complains about the administration and management of her fixed sum loan 
agreement (logbook loan) by CarCashPoint Limited (CCP).
What happened
In September 2021 Miss S took out a logbook loan with CCP for £1,060 with her car 
tendered as security. Under the terms of the logbook loan, everything else being equal, 
Miss S undertook to make 36 monthly payments of £135.45 making a total repayable of 
£4,876.20 at an APR of 315.4%.
In March 2023 Miss S complained to CCP about its administration and management of her 
logbook loan. In particular she complained about what she viewed to have been a lack of 
forbearance by CCP in respect of her financial difficulties and her arrears position and about 
charges debited to her logbook loan totalling £495 - broken down as follows:
late payment fees (6 x £15) £90
late payment fee refunds (3 x £15) (£45)
recovery administration charge (27 February 2023) £150
bailiff costs (27 February 2023) £300
CCP responded to Miss S complaint to say that it was satisfied that it had treated her with 
due forbearance and the £495 charges had been correctly debited in line with the logbook 
loan terms.
Unhappy with CCPs response to her complaint Miss S referred it to our service.
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
CCP had done nothing wrong in its administration and management of her logbook loan.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view and so her complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. I would also add that where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
I would also add that Im only considering in this decision Miss S complaint about the 
administration and management of her logbook loan and not any other complaint she might 
have, including but not restricted to any complaint about whether CCPs original decision to 
lend to her was a responsible one.
Miss S first fell into arrears in February 2022 with the arrears increasing slowly and steadily 
over time from £135.45 (one monthly repayment) in February 2022 to over £1,000 in 
mid-2023. 
Im satisfied that during this period CCP kept Miss S fully informed of the status of her 
logbook loan and arrears position and tried to assist her by agreeing a number of repayment 
plans most of, if not all of, werent kept to by Miss S. And with this in mind, and CCPs 
decision to suspend interest, refund a number of late payment fees, I can confirm Im 
satisfied that CCP has treated Miss S with forbearance and due consideration.
CCP is currently holding Miss S liable for three late payment fees of £15. Having had regard 
to the number of payments missed by Miss S, the fee being £15 (rather than a higher sum) 
and that the agreement allows for such a fee to be charged Im not persuaded that CCP has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in this respect.
On 27 February 2023 CCP charged Miss S a recovery administration charge of £150 and 
bailiff costs of £300. 
CCP says that it instructed a third party to recovery the car on 27 February 2023, and Ive no 
reason to doubt what it says in this respect, especially given at this point in time Miss S had 
failed to make the payments she had agreed to make under a repayment plan with CCP 
dated 19 January 2023.
Now Miss S says, amongst other things, that CCP had no right to charge her the £450 that it 
did because no bailiff was involved in [her] account. But Im not persuaded by this 
submission especially given that Miss S sent CCP a number of emails on 28 February 2023 
to say; Youve referred my case to bailiffs and you have referred my vehicle to be 
seized and to say that she had spoken with the bailiffs who confirmed they had been 
appointed by CCP. Im also satisfied, based on what CCP has shared with our service, that 
its liable for a fee of £300 on instructing bailiffs and Miss S agreed, at the outset, that this 
fee could be fairly and reasonably passed on to her.
Im also satisfied that the logbook loan terms say that in the event CCP takes the decision to 
instruct bailiffs there is a charge payable by Miss S of £150 for its administration costs in this 
respect and that this sum is both fair and reasonable.
Miss S also says that as her logbook loan was never registered with credit reference 
agencies as being in default CCP had no right to instruct bailiffs to seek repossession of the 
car. But CCP didnt need to register Miss S logbook loan as being in default to seek 
repossession of the car, rather it simply needed to serve (under section 87(1) of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974) Miss S with a default notice, which Im satisfied that it did on 
11 March 2022.Miss S also say that she didnt receive one or more emails sent by CCP. Now Im not 
persuaded by Miss S submission in this respect but I need to make no finding on this point. 
This is because I only need to be satisfied that any emails material to the outcome of this 
complaint were sent by CCP, not whether they were received by Miss S. And having had 
regard to all the emails that in my view could be deemed material to this complaint I can 
confirm that Im satisfied that they were indeed all sent.
Miss S also submits that an email that CCP says it sent to her on 28 February 2023 is 
fraudulent. Not withstanding this is a serious allegation to make, I simply disagree that this 
is the case. Furthermore, Im not persuaded that this email is, in itself, material to the 
outcome of this complaint given that it was sent (or purportedly sent) after CCP took the 
decision to debit Ms S with charges totalling £495.
I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im simply not 
persuaded that CCP has done anything wrong it its management and administration of 
Miss S logbook loan.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman