DRN-3482079
The complaint
Mr A complains about a fixed sum loan he took out with Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance, to pay for a new kitchen.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr A agreed to a design with a supplier, who Ill call X, for a new kitchen 
in his home. To pay for the kitchen and its installation, Mr A took out a fixed sum loan with 
Clydesdale. As part of the terms of the loan, Mr A had the option to repay what he had 
borrowed within 12 months and avoid paying any interest.
The kitchen was installed in early 2019, which meant the interest free period of loan began. 
But, Mr A was unhappy that it didnt fit the footprint of the his previous kitchen. He 
complained to X about a section of floor and wall, where he said needed repairs, due to a 
mistake with Xs measurements and plans.
X didnt offer to pay for the repairs, so Mr A contacted Clydesdale to make a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). Clydesdale responded to Mr A to 
say they would pass his concerns back to X, but wouldnt be upholding his section 75 claim.
By December 2019, Mr A says he became concerned about his interest free period ending. 
So, the following month, he deducted what he thought would be the cost of the repairs from 
the outstanding balance and paid a lump sum to Clydesdale. Because Mr A didnt settle the 
full balance of his loan within 12 months, Clydesdale wrote to him to say they would start to 
apply interest in January 2020.
Mr A complained further to Clydesdale, because neither them nor X had repaired the 
damage to his home. Mr A also complained because Clydesdale started to send arrears 
notices to him, for the interest added after the initial 12 month interest free period.
In their final response to Mr A, Clydesdale again reiterated that they had passed his 
concerns to X. But because of a delay in responding, they paid £50 to Mr A. By June 2020, 
Mr A says he saw that Clydesdale had placed a default on his credit file and that they 
continued to send him notices of arrears. So, he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As case and found that Clydesdale hadnt treated 
him fairly. After some discussion, Clydesdale accepted that repairs were needed to the 
kitchen and offered to pay for the work, based on a quote Mr A had provided. 
The investigator also asked Clydesdale to refund the interest and charges applied to Mr As 
fixed sum loan. He concluded that had Clydesdale looked at Mr As section 75 claim sooner, 
its likely he would have paid the full balance of the loan, before any interest was added. The 
investigator found that the resulting pursuit of Mr A and the information recorded on his 
credit file had caused him distress and inconvenience. So, the investigator asked Clydesdale 
to remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file and to pay him £500.
Clydesdale didnt accept the investigators findings and said that Mr A chose not to pay the 
full balance of his fixed sum loan. So, they said Mr A had accepted that interest would be 
applied. The investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mr As complaint has now been 
referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
This case is about a fixed sum loan that Mr A took out with Clydesdale, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The relevant piece of legislation is section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This 
provides protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 
75, subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a fixed sum loan to pay for goods and 
services, have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
In Mr As case, he says section 75 means he has an equal claim against Clydesdale, 
because the installation of the kitchen by X is of poor quality. So, with what Ive said in mind, 
I agree that Mr A was able to ask Clydesdale to consider if he has a claim under section 75.
During our services investigation, Clydesdale considered several reports, documents and 
repair quotes about the installation of the kitchen. Subsequently, in April 2022, Clydesdale 
accepted Mr As section 75 claim and offered to pay for the repairs, based on the quotes he 
had provided.
On the face of it, I think Clydesdales offer to pay for the repairs to the kitchen, means they 
have now treated Mr As section 75 claim fairly. However, it remains that Clydesdale 
disagreed with the part of the investigators conclusions about the outstanding balance of the 
fixed sum loan. So, Ive considered that part of Mr As complaint further.
The end of the interest free period.
The first page of the terms and conditions for Mr As fixed sum loan says:
If you repay your loan within 12 months we will not charge you interest but we will 
charge you a settlement fee of £25.
If you do not repay your loan within 12 months, you will pay us interest at the rate 
stated in the agreement. The interest rate is fixed so will not change over the life of 
the loan.
Having thought about the terms and conditions Mr A agreed to, I think Clydesdale were 
entitled to apply interest to the outstanding balance, if the loan wasnt fully repaid within 12 
months. But, Ive thought about the reasons why Mr A chose to pay the majority, but not all 
of the loan balance in January 2020. Ive also thought about Clydesdales eventual response 
to Mr As section 75 claim, to see if that means it was fair for Clydesdale to hold Mr A 
responsible for the interest added to the balance of the fixed sum loan.
I can see from the correspondence between Mr A and X, that he raised his concerns about 
the quality of the installation around the time X had completed their work. X didnt offer to 
inspect and review the repairs Mr A said were needed, so he contacted Clydesdale to raise a section 75 claim.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts 
that goods supplied need to be of satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose and as 
described. It says traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. The CRA 
also sets out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or 
services contract are not met.
Ive carefully considered what the CRA says here and I think there was an onus on X and 
Clydesdale, to have at least looked at the damage Mr A says was caused during the 
installation. That way, they could have offered a repair, or given their reasons why they didnt 
think they were responsible. Mr A didnt receive any offer of an inspection from X or 
Clydesdale, which at the time denied him of a possible remedy.
I can see that Mr A was in regular contact with Clydesdale about his concerns up until 
January 2020, when the interest free period was coming to an end. Mr A calculated the cost 
of the repair himself and underpaid the balance of the fixed sum loan by £1,360.
In hindsight, I think this caused more difficulties, than if Mr A had just paid the full balance 
and continued with his section 75 claim. But, I also think it gave Clydesdale an opportunity to 
pause their intention to charge interest and to fairly investigate Mr As concerns.
Clydesdale eventually upheld Mr As section 75 claim in April 2022 and offered to pay for the 
repairs to the kitchen. This was after looking at an independent inspection, a report from X 
and the two quotes provided by Mr A. Having considered everything, Im persuaded 
Clydesdale would have reached a similar outcome, had they treated Mr As section 75 claim 
fairly, when he first raised the matter with them in March 2019.
Mr A has told us that had Clydesdale given him their eventual outcome to his section 75 
claim at some point in 2019, he would have repaid the total amount owed to the fixed sum 
loan. So, Ive considered that further to decide if Clydesdale should remove the interest and 
charges applied to the balance of the loan.
Ive seen evidence that Mr A had the funds available, to repay the full amount of the fixed 
sum loan in January 2020. Im also persuaded that it was Mr As intention to take advantage 
of the interest free period offered by Clydesdale, as an incentive to finance the purchase of 
the kitchen and its installation.
So, on balance, I think Mr A would have paid the full balance of his fixed sum loan, had 
Clydesdale given him their outcome to his section 75 claim sooner. Had he done so, I dont 
think Clydesdale would then have applied interest to the balance of the loan.
In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Clydesdale now removes the interest and 
charges from the balance of the loan. This should mean that Mr A owes Clydesdale the 
amount by which he underpaid the loan in January 2020.
Clydesdale are still due to pay Mr A for the repairs to the kitchen, based on the quotes he 
provided. So, I think its fair and simpler for Clydesdale to deduct what Mr A underpaid by, 
from the amount needed for the repairs and settle the fixed sum loan accordingly. I should 
add that Clydesdale will need to consider that Mr A obtained the repair quotes in April 2022, 
some seven months prior to this decision. And Mr A should be aware that Clydesdale are 
able to charge a £25 settlement fee, when the loan is fully repaid.
Adverse informationMr A has told us about the impact the missed payment information had on his credit file. He 
says Clydesdale have recorded adverse information when the balance of the fixed sum loan 
was in dispute.
Ive found that Mr A had the ability to repay the fixed sum loan balance in full, in January 
2020. And Im persuaded he would have taken that action, had Clydesdale considered and 
reached an outcome on his section 75 claim sooner. 
So, I think its fair for Clydesdale to arrange to remove the adverse information about the 
fixed sum loan, that they have recorded with credit reference agencies. Furthermore, for 
completeness, I think its fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to confirm to Mr A that the 
adverse information has been removed and the loan account settled.
Distress and inconvenience
The statements for Mr As fixed sum loan account show that interest was applied to the 
outstanding balance in January 2020. In the following months, while the balance of the loan 
was in dispute, Clydesdale recorded adverse information about the account with credit 
reference agencies. I can see that Mr A was pursued for the outstanding balance by 
Clydesdale and later, a debt collection agent.
The adverse information has been present on the details held about Mr A, with credit 
reference agencies for over two years. So, I can see how being chased for repayments and 
the thought of a negative impact on his credit file caused Mr A worry and distress. Mr A has 
also told us about the circumstance around his poor health and the impact of Clydesdales 
actions on him. Additionally, Mr A says hes suffered inconvenience by having to live with a 
kitchen that needed repairs.
Clydesdale accepted Mr As section 75 claim and made an offer to pay for the repairs in April 
2022. Ive concluded that had Clydesdale reached this outcome around the time Mr A made 
the section 75 claim, its likely the loan would have been repaid within the twelve month 
interest free period. So, I think it follows that in not reaching their outcome until much later, 
Clydesdale have caused Mr A distress and inconvenience.
Having considered everything, I think its fair for Clydesdale to pay Mr A total of £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, due to the delay in looking at his section 75 claim. I can 
see that Clydesdale have already paid Mr A £50 in April 2020. So, I think its fair if 
Clydesdale chooses to put that towards the total payment.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint Clydesdale should: 
1. refund all interest and charges applied to Mr As fixed sum loan; 
2. remove any adverse information about the fixed sum loan, recorded with credit 
reference agencies;
3. deduct the outstanding amount due to the fixed sum loan (£1,360) and the £25 
settlement fee, from the £5,226 cost of the repairs to the kitchen, based on the 
quotes provided by Mr A. Then pay Mr A the remainder;
4. settle the fixed sum loan and confirm that Mr A doesnt owe any further repayments 
to Clydesdale; and5. pay a total of £500 to Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Clydesdale must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr A 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Clydesdale deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr A, they should provide Mr A with a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities 
if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before XX December 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman