DRN-2322255
The complaint
Mr B complains that Cora HR and Employment Law Ltd (Cora) signed a settlement 
agreement without his consent. He also says they didnt tell him theyre not a firm of 
solicitors and have been harassing him for their fees. Mr B says hes lost his job and wants 
Cora to pay for any losses until he finds another job paying the same salary.   
What happened
Mr B instructed Cora to handle an employment claim against his former employer. This led 
to an offer of settlement which was accepted by Mr B. Mr B felt his former employers werent 
complying with the terms of the settlement, so he asked Cora to deal with this. Mr B wasnt 
happy with the service, so he asked Cora to stop acting in the claim and raised a complaint. 
Cora set out the steps they had taken in dealing with Mr Bs claim and didnt uphold his 
complaint. Cora also chased Mr B for their fees.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and didnt uphold the complaint about Cora. Mr B 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. Mr B has raised many 
arguments and points relating to his complaint. Ive addressed only those which are relevant 
to my decision. Theres no discourtesy intended here and, while Ive carefully reviewed all of 
Mr Bs comments, Ive only dealt with those which relate to the complaint Im deciding. 
Settlement 
Mr B says that Cora settled his claim by signing an agreement form without his instructions. I 
can see that Cora did write to Mr B in February 2020 to say they could no longer act for him. 
They say the reason for this is because Mr B agreed to settle his claim if his former employer 
were to offer a specific figure. And, when this was offered, Mr B refused to settle. Cora say 
there are cost risks associated with the claim now and withdraw from acting for Mr B. 
I can see Mr B gets back in touch with Cora and asks them to continue to act for him. Over 
the next month, there is regular communication between Cora and Mr B which relate to 
ongoing negotiations around the specific settlement terms. These are agreed between Cora 
and the former employer and Cora then provide a breakdown of the settlement terms on 
offer and Mr B agrees to this. Cora then email Mr B to explain they will be signing the 
agreement under Mr Bs instruction. 
From the information Ive seen, I cant say Cora have acted without instructions. There is 
regular communication between Cora and Mr B discussing all aspects of the settlement. 
And, theres a number of occasions where Cora, following Mr Bs instructions, return to the 
former employer with suggested changes to some of the finer points of the settlement terms. 
So, the evidence shows Mr B was very much involved in the negotiations and was fully 
aware of the terms on which Cora were settling his claim. I have seen that Cora signed the 
settlement agreement in line with Mr Bs instructions, so I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
I note Mr B says there was no legal contract between him and Cora following their 
withdrawal from his claim. Its not my role to consider any legal issues so I cant comment on 
whether there is a legal contract in place. My role is to look at the service so I can look at 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Cora to continue to act for Mr B following their 
withdrawal. I can see Mr B signs a contract with Cora in July 2019 to act in his employment 
law claim. Cora stop acting in February 2020 but following Mr Bs request they continue to 
represent him. Mr B says there was no further contract signed by him following Coras 
decision to stop acting so the work carried out by them when they resume acting isnt 
covered by a legal contract. As mentioned above, its not my role to consider the legal 
standing in relation to the contract. From a service point of view, I think it was reasonable for 
Cora to continue to act for Mr B as he asks them to continue acting and he is fully engaged 
in giving them instructions to settle the claim.  
Mr B also says that he was unwell while the negotiations took place and wasnt in a position 
to make a decision on settlement. I can see that Mr B emails Cora in March to say hes 
unwell and has been advised by the NHS to self-isolate. Ive looked at the emails exchanged 
between Mr B and Cora around this time and, while I agree Mr B does bring this to Coras 
attention, I cant see he tells them hes unable to deal with the matter at that time. I can see 
Mr B continues to engage with Cora and provides instructions on the settlement terms. So, I 
cant say Cora have acted unfairly here. 
Status to deal with employment claim
   
Mr B says Cora arent a firm of solicitors and dont have regulatory permissions to deal with 
employment law claims. I can see Cora are regulated as a claims management company 
and the work theyve carried out is covered as a regulated activity under the Claims 
Management: Conduct of Business sourcebook. So, I cant say Cora have acted 
unreasonably here. I havent seen any information which suggests Cora have claimed to be 
a firm of solicitors or otherwise led Mr B to believe they are. The contract signed by Mr B in 
July 2019 sets out who Cora are regulated by and this doesnt suggest they are an 
authorised firm of solicitors. 
Leaving the former employer 
 
Mr B says the actions of Cora led him to lose his job with his former employer. The contract 
signed by Mr B sets out the claim Cora will be dealing with. The email exchanges between 
Mr B and Cora throughout March discuss the terms of settlement and make it clear what the 
compensation offer is for. Theres discussion between Mr B and Cora around his end date of 
employment with Mr B giving instructions on this point. From the information I have seen, the 
employment claim is being pursued, and the settlement is agreed, on the understanding that 
Mr B will be leaving his former employer. I cant see there is any agreement between Mr B 
and Cora which suggests Mr B will retain his employment. 
I can see Mr B refers to a grievance procedure which he says he was participating in during 
February 2020. He says he wasnt interested in any settlement but wanted to continue 
working for his former employer. This might well have been the case at that point in time, but 
the evidence shows the settlement terms being discussed throughout March involve Mr B 
leaving his former employer. So, I cant say any errors by Cora are the reason for Mr B 
leaving his former employer. This is down to the terms of settlement agreed.     Fees
Mr B feels he has been harassed for payment of Coras fees. I can see that Mr B emails 
Cora in June 2020 to end his instructions. He asks Cora to stop working for him as he will be 
passing the case to a solicitor. Cora send an invoice to Mr B in July for their fees. They 
explain their fees are £5,000 of which £1,500 has been paid by Mr Bs former employer. The 
total outstanding is £3,500. Having not received payment, they chase in August, September 
and November. In the September letter, they explain the steps theyll take if Mr B doesnt 
pay. I can see Cora have charged Mr B fees in line with their agreement with him, and 
theyve carried out work in the claim. So, I dont think its unreasonable for them to chase for 
their fees. I understand Mr B says he felt threatened but I cant see any evidence from 
Coras chaser letters of them acting in an unreasonable manner. 
I note Mr Bs point about whether Cora should deduct their fees from the settlement received 
from the former employer. But, given that hes asked them to stop acting, Cora arent in a 
position to receive the settlement. So, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for them to 
ask for their fees to be paid directly by Mr B. I understand Mr B has paid Cora the £3,500.         
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this matter as I think Cora have acted fairly 
and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman