DRN-2099930
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled his account 
after he moved abroad. 
What happened
Mr M had a current account with RBS that had an overdraft of £4,400. Mr M says that 
around 2011, before he moved abroad, he cancelled direct debits that had been collected 
from his account. Mr M subsequently moved to a different country. 
After the last credit was received into Mr Ms account, direct debits continued to be collected 
and the balance became overdrawn in August 2015. RBS says it contacted Mr M using the 
details it had on file about the overdrawn balance. But post RBS sent Mr M was returned 
undelivered. RBS took the decision to default the account at the end of 2018. 
Mr M complained to RBS and it responded on 21 May 2019. Mr M complained again and 
RBS sent another final response on 21 January 2020. RBS said the decision to default the 
account was reasonable and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M went on to refer his 
concerns to our service and his complaint was passed to an investigator. 
The investigator said that part of Mr Ms complaint had been referred to us too late to 
consider. The investigator thought that the remaining issues had been dealt with fairly by 
RBS and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M asked to appeal and his complaint was passed 
to me. On 16 July 2020 I issued a decision that explained our service can only consider part 
of Mr Ms complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with my previous decision, our service can only consider Mr Ms complaints about the 
contact RBS attempted before taking the decision to default his account. Im also going to 
look at whether RBS failed to cancel Mr Ms direct debits before he moved abroad. 
Mr M says that RBS failed to contact him about the debt on his account which meant he 
didnt know about the default until it was too late. I note Mr Ms comments. But RBS has 
provided details of its attempts to discuss the overdraft balance with Mr M over time. Ive 
looked at the available evidence and can see RBS sent lots of letters to the address it had 
on file for Mr M. The collections letters began in December 2015 and continued into 2016 at 
which point RBS found out Mr M was no longer residing at the registered address. RBS later 
took the decision to default the account in 2018 as the outstanding balance continued to 
increase.
RBS has also sent in contact notes to show it also tried to call Mr M about the outstanding 
balance. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but the evidence Ive seen shows RBS made 
concerted efforts to contact him using the details it had on file before taking the decision to 
apply a default to his current account. I havent been persuaded that it failed to take the 
necessary steps or that Mr M has been treated unfairly. 
Mr M complains that his direct debits should have been cancelled but theres no evidence to 
show he asked RBS to take that step. Ive looked at Mr Ms account statements going back 
to the period in question. I can see Mr M continued to use his account in the years after he 
has told us he moved abroad and that the direct debit payments continued to be collected 
throughout the period. I note that Mr M made reasonably large deposits going up to 
December 2013 which appear to have been made in order to cover the regular direct debits 
being collected. 
In addition, consumers will generally cancel a direct debit arrangement with the business 
collecting it if they no longer wish to continue making payments. Its clear the businesses in 
question continued to request payments from RBS over a period of several years. I think its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M didnt cancel the direct debit with the collecting 
businesses. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded that he cancelled the 
direct debits that were being collected from his account before he moved abroad. 
As I havent found any evidence of a mistake by RBS and Im satisfied it has dealt with 
Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman