DRN-3238299
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc cannot locate the funds from an ISA he held with 
them in 2008.
What happened
Mr H held an ISA with Company B. Santander took over Company Bs accounts and Mr Hs 
ISA transferred to them in November 2007.
In 2021 Mr H contacted Santander to ask about the ISA as he doesnt recall transferring the 
funds out. They checked their systems and could see that the ISA account closed in 
September 2008, but they werent able to tell him where the funds had gone. 
Mr H was unhappy with Santanders response and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought Santander hadnt done anything wrong as theyd searched for further 
information but this wasnt available due to the length of time that had passed. 
As Mr H disagreed with the investigator, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Santander have been able to locate a record of Mr Hs ISA account on their 
systems, and theyve provided a screenshot to show that the account was opened in 
November 2007 and closed in September 2008. 
I appreciate Mr H doesnt recall receiving the ISA funds in 2008 and I dont dispute his 
recollections. I appreciate he feels strongly about this complaint. However over 13 years 
have passed since the account was closed, so I think its reasonable Santander are unable 
to provide further details about where the funds went at that time. Businesses arent obliged 
to keep records indefinitely, and must comply with data protection laws.
The evidence Ive seen shows that the ISA was a one-year fixed rate ISA and that it was due 
to mature one year from the date of transfer  ie. it was due to mature in November 2008. 
We know the ISA account closed before that, in September 2008. So while we cant say for 
sure, I think this suggests its likely Mr H asked for the funds to be withdrawn early.  
But even if this wasnt the case, Ive received nothing from either Santander or Mr H which 
suggests where the money may have gone. I appreciate this is reasonable, given the length 
of time thats passed since September 2008. But on the basis that theres no evidence to 
suggest Santander has done anything wrong, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman