DRN-4253114
The complaint
Ms N complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt do enough 
to help her to recover money shed paid on her credit card for a holiday she couldnt take.
What happened
Ms N arranged holiday flights for herself and her family through an online booking agent G. 
She paid for the flights using her Tesco Bank credit card. Unfortunately, shortly before the 
holiday a member of the group became ill. Their condition was contagious so Ms N called G 
to see if the flights could be rearranged or refunded. G referred Ms N to the airline P.
P told Ms N she could get a refund if she supplied a doctors certificate to show the 
passenger was unable to fly. Ms N paid £60 for the doctors certificate. However, P then said 
it was unable to assist directly and referred Ms N back to G, through whom she submitted 
her doctors certificate. G told Ms N it could not guarantee a refund. However, Ms N heard 
nothing further from P or G and turned to Tesco Bank to see if it could help.
Tesco Bank said it couldnt refund or otherwise assist Ms N without clear evidence that she 
was entitled to a refund. P hadnt confirmed that Ms N was entitled to this; only that it would 
consider refunding. It suggested Ms N refer to the retailer to resolve the dispute.
Ms N was unhappy with Tesco Banks investigation and stance. She said shed paid by 
credit card for protection and had followed the steps P and G had requested to submit her 
medical evidence. Tesco Bank acknowledged thered been shortcomings in its service. It 
had initially referred Ms N back to the retailer, and the bank hadnt returned Ms Ns calls. It 
offered her £75 in recognition of this. However, Tesco Bank wasnt minded to change its 
position on whether Ms N was due a refund of her transaction, and so she contacted us with 
her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the bank was liable to compensate Ms N further. He felt there 
was insufficient evidence to demonstrate that Ms N was contractually entitled to a refund, as 
might be required for a successful breach of contract claim. And he considered Tesco Bank 
had acted reasonably in declining to submit a chargeback claim based on the card scheme 
requirements.
Ms N didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms N is frustrated with the situation shes found herself in through no 
fault of her own. It seems that because she booked her flights through G rather than directly 
with P, her submissions and request for a refund also have to be made to P through G, 
rather than directly with the airline. There are provisions within Gs terms and conditions for 
G to issue a voucher in the event of a customer cancellation, but this is subject to the 
purchase (at additional cost) of Gs Cancellation Guarantee. Ms N didnt purchase this.
Clearly there was an undertaking from G to forward to P Ms Ns medical certificate and any 
other submissions. I dont know whether G failed to do so, or whether P received them but 
took no further action. There was a breakdown in communication that prompted Ms N to turn 
to Tesco Bank to see how it might assist. But that doesnt create an obligation on Tesco 
Bank to resolve the problem between Ms N, P and G.
Rather, it should prompt the bank to look at what it could do to help. In this case that would 
be to see whether it had any liability to Ms N for what had happened, and if not, to see 
whether it would be possible to assist by means of a chargeback.
Im conscious Ms N has said she used her credit card because of the protection it afforded 
her. Using a credit card to make a purchase does, in certain situations provide some 
additional protection when buying goods and services. The mechanism for this is section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Whilst section 75 isnt equivalent to say, a travel insurance 
policy, buying with this form of credit can enable a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
claim to be brought against the credit provider, rather than only being able to claim against 
the supplier.
For Tesco Bank to be liable to refund Ms N under section 75, she would need to be able to 
demonstrate that G  the party to whom she made her payment  either made a false 
statement of fact that induced her to enter into the contract with it, or that it breached its 
obligations under the contract.
One of the key problems in Ms N pursuing a section 75 claim against Tesco Bank is that if 
there was any obligation to rearrange the flights or refund Ms Ns payment, it would arise 
either out of her contract with P or her discussions with that party, rather than any agreement 
or conversation she had with G. Because Ms N made her credit card payment to G rather 
than P, Tesco Bank wouldnt be liable to her under section 75.
The other mechanism by which Tesco Bank might assist Ms N is by raising a chargeback 
claim. It can only do this if the claim falls within the card scheme rules. If a valid chargeback 
right exists under the rules, and there is a reasonable prospect of a successful claim, Id 
expect Tesco Bank to raise a claim. Not every dispute between a customer and a supplier is 
covered by chargeback. The closest fit under the MasterCard rules is that goods or services 
were not as described or defective, which includes a supplier failing to honour the terms and 
conditions of a contract. However, that rule does say that the cardholder must abide by the 
refund policy at the time of purchase. 
The chargeback rule doesnt appear to allow for a claim on the basis that the supplier agreed 
to consider a refund outside of the terms agreed at the point of purchase, which is what 
Ms N says happened. Thats not to say Ms N doesnt have grounds for complaint against P 
(and possibly G). Its that it doesnt appear shes able to claim her money through the 
chargeback process unless the contract agreed when she bought the flights entitled her to a 
refund in the circumstances in which she cancelled.
I can therefore see why Tesco Bank considered it necessary to request evidence to show 
that Ms N was contractually entitled to a refund, rather than P had later agreed to (or 
indicated it would be agreeable to) refunding Ms N. In the absence of such evidence, I dont 
consider Tesco Bank treated Ms N unfairly by declining to proceed with the chargeback 
claim.The bank has previously acknowledged some service shortcomings. It offered Ms N £75 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience those shortcomings caused her. I think thats a fair 
way for Tesco Bank to settle Ms Ns complaint, and Tesco Bank should pay this sum to her if 
it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay 
Ms N £75 in settlement of her complaint, inclusive of any sums it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman