DRN-4260918
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as G, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly closed 
its account.
Mr B and Ms M bring this complaint in Gs behalf. Mr B is a director of both G and a 
company associated with G, and Ms M is a director of the associated company.
What happened
Barclays told us:
During 2022 it carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Gs account. As 
part of that review, it wrote to G asking for information about its business. 
G did not respond to its requests for information, so in June 2022 it sent a further 
letter giving notice that it intended to close Gs account.
On 7 November 2022 it closed Gs account, and shortly afterwards it sent G a 
cheque for the balance of its account in the post. Gs directors later contacted it to 
explain that they no longer had an account in Gs name, and to ask for the balance to 
be paid by electronic transfer to a bank account in a different name. Barclays was 
willing to do that, but the transfer took some time  and was finally paid on 13 
January 2023.
After Mr B complained, it paid £551.32 in interest (calculated at 8% simple for the 
period G did not have access to its funds). It also said it would pay £75 to the 
directors to apologise for the distress and inconvenience they suffered, but due to an 
error has only actually paid £50.
Mr B and Ms M told us:
Mr B noticed on 9 November 2022 that he could no longer view Gs account online. 
Ms M contacted Barclays immediately, and eventually discovered that Barclays had 
closed Gs account.
They didnt receive any letters prior to the closure, and they had no warning that it 
was about to happen.
Unexpectedly they received a cheque for the full amount of the money that was in 
Gs account. They consider this shows that Barclays did not believe the money 
should be withheld for reasons relating to money laundering or fraud. But they were 
unable to cash the cheque, because it was made out to G and G no longer had a 
bank account in its name.
After many frustrating attempts to contact Barclays, including a branch visit during 
which the banks staff had to wait for help from another team, they eventually 
received Gs money by electronic transfer.
They have still not been officially advised why the account was closed. They are 
grateful they were able to keep the matter within Gs management team, but they are 
concerned that if the closure had been widely known it would have damaged Gs 
reputation with both staff and clients.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She was satisfied 
that Barclays was entitled to close Gs account, and that it had given Gs directors fair 
warning that it intended to do so. She accepted that Barclays had taken too long to arrange 
for the electronic transfer of Gs money, but she thought the compensation it had already 
paid was fair in relation to that delay.
Barclays accepted our investigators findings, but Gs directors did not. They reiterated that 
they did not receive the letters Barclays says it sent them, but they would of course have 
responded to the letters if they had been received. They also said that when they became 
aware of the requirement to complete a questionnaire they did so, but Barclays claims not to 
have received that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Briefly, my 
findings are:
Barclays was entitled to carry out its KYC process, and it didnt do anything wrong in 
deciding to close Gs account.
Barclays customer service after the account closure was poor, but the compensation 
it has already paid is enough to put the matter right.
I give more details of my findings below.
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated, and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. There are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
new and existing relationships. That sometimes means  as in this case  that a bank 
chooses to carry out a KYC review.
In principle, I have no concerns about Barclays decision to carry out a KYC review of Gs 
account. That means that in order to decide whether Barclays treated G fairly, I need to 
consider how that review was carried out.
I think the key issue in this complaint is whether Barclays sent the letters it says it sent. Our 
investigator thought it had, but Mr B said he didnt receive any of the letters.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr B, but having considered all the evidence I think it is more 
likely than not that Barclays did write to G in respect of a KYC review, and that it did give G 
notice that it intended to close Gs account. 
Although Barclays cannot provide copies of the actual letters sent, I am satisfied with the 
evidence Barclays has provided. It is common for banks like Barclays to record evidence of 
this sort of exercise in the form of template letters together with details of where and when it 
sent those letters, and I do not criticise Barclays for doing so. Here, Barclays evidence is that it sent Gs letters to the address the director later provided on our complaint form  
which is also Gs registered address. I acknowledge the directors concern about Gs 
address not showing on their online banking, but I am nevertheless satisfied that Barclays 
sent its letters to the correct address.
I accept that evidence that a letter was sent is not evidence that a letter was received. I am 
aware that there were several Royal Mail strikes in 2022, and it is possible that one or more 
of those strikes caused Gs letters to be delayed. But I think it is very unlikely that all of the 
letters went permanently astray, and on balance I think it is much more likely than not that 
Gs director did receive them.
I also acknowledge that Mr B does not recall receiving any letters about the KYC process, 
but again that doesnt imply that the letters were not sent.
I am satisfied that Gs director did not provide the information Barclays had requested within 
two months of its 21 June 2022 Notice To Close letter. Mr B and Ms M may well have 
provided information previously in respect of another company they controlled, but Barclays 
was nevertheless entitled to carry out a separate KYC review of Gs account. Mr B and Ms M 
may also have later provided a questionnaire in respect of G, but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest they did so before Gs account was closed. Ultimately, G did not respond to 
Barclays letters, so I consider that Barclays was entitled to close Gs account.
I know Gs directors would like an official explanation as to why Barclays closed Gs account. 
Barclays is not required to provide an explanation, but in this case it has done so; it closed 
the account because it did not receive the information it requested about G.
Barclays accepts that it took too long to arrange an electronic transfer of Gs money after Gs 
account was closed. I agree, but I consider that the compensation it has already paid is 
sufficient to cover any financial loss suffered by the company because it did not have access 
to its funds.
The complainant here is G, not Mr B and Ms M personally. Limited companies like G are 
corporate bodies, and so are not capable of suffering distress. I acknowledge that Mr B and 
Ms M were personally distressed by the situation, but I have no power to make an award to 
anyone other than the complainant. Im aware that Barclays has chosen to make a payment 
to the directors, and if they have any questions about that payment they should contact 
Barclays directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman