DRN-3357746
The complaint
Miss B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have avoided her policy unfairly and 
refused her claim.   
What happened
In January 2019 Miss Bs neighbour complained to her that structural work that was taking 
place at her property had caused a water escape into their property. 
Miss Bs builder offered to put right the water damage to the decorations in the neighbours 
flat as a gesture of goodwill. No admission of liability was made.
Miss B took out a buildings and contents policy with AXA through a price comparison site in 
March 2019. The policy was with company M but underwritten by AXA. 
In July 2020 Miss B was notified by her neighbours insurers that he was making a claim 
against her for damage to his property.
Miss B notified AXA in August 2020 and was advised not to admit liability. Over the next few 
months Miss B provided all the details to AXA but found it difficult to correspond with them. 
In March 2021, AXA told Miss B that they had avoided her home insurance policy from 
March 2019 when it was taken out. AXA said when Miss B took out the policy, she had 
answered the questions about structural works incorrectly and hadnt declared any incidents 
giving rise to a claim. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Bs complaint. She thought that AXA had acted 
fairly in voiding the policy and refunding the premium.
Miss B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Miss B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took the policy out. They have pointed to what they say are two separate 
misrepresentations. 
AXA say that when they quoted for the policy, Miss B 
failed to tell them about structural works that were ongoing that cost more than 
£25000 - which is a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation
failed to tell them about the ingress of water complaint raised by her neighbour in 
January 2019 - which is a careless misrepresentation. 
They say that If Miss B had made these disclosures they would have declined cover and so 
they are entitled it to avoid the policy, decline the claim and refund the premium already 
paid.  
 
In order to consider whether Miss B did make a qualifying misrepresentation, I have 
reviewed the information from Miss B about the work that was undertaken at the flat, and the 
exchanges between Miss B, her builder and her neighbour. 
AXA have provided me with all their documents and have answered further questions about 
what questions were asked when the policy was quoted.  I asked AXA to provide me with 
screen shots of the questions asked during the online quotation process, and Miss Bs 
responses, as these form the basis of the alleged misrepresentations. However, AXA were 
not able to provide me with these. They have however, provided a copy of the Statement of 
Household Insurance, which contains the information that Miss B supplied online when she 
was quoted for the policy. 
Failure to inform of structural work
AXA have told me that Miss B bought the policy through a price comparison website and the 
question that was asked during the online quotation process was Is your flat undergoing any 
building work. They say Miss B answered No which they would consider to be a deliberate 
misrepresentation. 
However, although AXA have sent me a screen shot of the websites current page with the 
question on, they havent been able to provide me with any evidence which shows this 
question being asked as part of the quotation process, nor of what the question was in 2019. 
They have also not been able to evidence Miss Bs response.  So, I cannot say for certain 
what question was asked and what the response was.  
 
I have also considered the Statement of Household Insurance to see whether that contains 
any questions about building works, as it contains the information provided by Miss B at the 
time of quotation. It does contain a list of the questions and her responses. However, there 
are no questions relating to any building works or structural alterations. 
I am therefore unable conclude that there was a misrepresentation at the point of quotation 
in respect of this part of the complaint, as there is no evidence of what was asked and what 
response was given.  
Failure to advise of the ingress of water claim
AXA say that during the quotation process, Miss B was asked the question Is your house in 
a good state of repair with the additional text Your house should be structurally sound with 
no evidence of damp, rot, or faulty plumbing or wiring. They say Miss B responded Yes to this question, and that this is a careless misrepresentation as she was aware of the ingress 
of water issues raised by her neighbour.
   
Again, I havent been provided with the screen shots that evidence the question and answer 
given here. However, there is a question on the Statement of Household insurance which 
says Is the property in a good state of repair and the response given was Yes so I am 
satisfied that this question was asked. 
Ive then thought about whether this is a misrepresentation  did Miss B take reasonable 
care to answer the question. The question asks about the condition of Miss Bs property, 
which as far as she knew, was in a good state of repair. I havent seen anything which 
suggests that Miss Bs flat was in a poor state of repair and although she was doing 
renovations, these were to improve the property, not repair it. 
The question doesnt ask about damage to neighbouring properties, and so I dont think that 
Miss B has misrepresented in her response to this question. The additional text to 
supplement the question asks about damp, rot and faults to her property. As the ingress of 
water didnt affect her property, I dont think that is responding Yes to this question was a 
misrepresentation. 
The Statement of Household Insurance also contains the question, Have you, or any other 
proposer to this insurance suffered a loss/made a claim? You should include all incidents 
whether or not you made a claim and whether or not you were paid for that claim.. Miss B 
has responded No to this question.   
AXA have also drawn attention to this question in their submissions, so Ive thought about 
whether Miss B took reasonable care in responding to this question given that she knew 
about the ingress of water into her neighbours flat. 
Miss B argues that the approach from her neighbour in February 2019 does not constitute a 
claim, and therefore she was not obliged to notify AXA. The first time she was notified of a 
claim was in July 2020. 
As she hadnt made a claim for the issue, Ive considered if she had suffered a loss that she 
should have known to disclose.  Miss B has provided me with copies of e mails with her 
neighbour which show that the water ingress started on 22 January 2019 and continued until 
4 February 2019. Miss B placed her trust in her builder to sort this out with her neighbour 
and the e mails show that an agreement was reached between the neighbour and the 
builder about remedial works sometime in the summer of 2019. 
I think its reasonable that Miss B responded No to this question as there was no claim, she 
had suffered no loss, and there was no damage which she considered she was liable for  
her builder was undertaking the repairs as it was his responsibility.  
The question also asks Miss B to include all incidents whether or not you made a claim and 
whether or not you were paid for that claim. 
However, I think its reasonable for Miss B not to have considered that the issue raised by 
her neighbour was relevant here either. Having suffered no loss there would have been no 
reason for her to consider a claim. 
I dont think that in answering this question as No, Miss B was attempting to mislead AXA, 
and I think she took reasonable care in responding. So, I think that AXA have acted unfairly in avoiding the policy and their actions are not in line 
with CIDRA. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Miss Bs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Miss B and AXA a copy of my provisional decision. Miss B has replied and has nothing 
further to add. AXA have responded with no comments but have sent me a copy of the 
Statement of Household Insurance. I have already seen this document and commented on it 
in my provisional decision, and so my view remains unchanged. I am therefore making my 
final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above. 
Putting things right
To put things right, AXA should reinstate Miss Bs policy and consider any claims that arise, 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My decision is to uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to put things 
right as above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman