DRN-1567595
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
Background
Mr D was driving his car when he was in a minor accident with a motorcyclist. Both Mr D and 
the motorcyclist blamed each other for the incident. Mr D said his car wasn't damaged but 
Calpe settled the motorcyclists claim for damage to his bike against Mr Ds policy. Mr D 
didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
it. Our investigator didn't think Calpe had done anything wrong. Mr D didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ds policy allows 
Calpe to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Ds consent to decide 
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mr D doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see if its done so reasonably.
Mr D was turning right crossing another lane of traffic when his car and the motorcycle came 
together. Mr D said he couldn't complete the turn because there were pedestrians crossing 
the road he was turning into, so he stopped. He said the motorcyclist was filtering between 
the traffic when he tried to get passed Mr Ds car hitting it in the process. In contrast the 
motorcyclist says that he was moving forward in heavy traffic when Mr D hit him from the 
side.
As I understand it, in line with the guidance in the Highway Code, insurers generally consider 
that its the responsibility of the driver making a right turn across another lane to ensure that 
their exit is clear before they make their turn. And the Highway Code also gives right of way 
to vehicles proceeding straight-ahead and continuing in their own lane. And as thats what 
the motorcyclist was doing the Highway Code would appear to indicate that Mr D would most 
likely be at fault for the accident. I appreciate Mr D says he was stationary at the time and 
that the motorcyclist rode into him. But theres no independent witness or CCTV to support 
Mr Ds version of events. And Calpe asked an independent engineer to review the damage 
and repair costs before it settled the motorcyclists claim. And the damage to the motorbike, 
which was mostly to its silencer, would seem to support the motorcyclists account of what 
happened. 
Also, when considering how to handle claims, insurers like Calpe need to think about what 
would be likely to happen if the matter went to court. And, it's clear that having investigated 
the matter Calpe thought it was unlikely it could successfully defend any court action. So it 
decided to settle the motorcyclists claim. And given the guidance in the Highway Code and 
the engineers evidence would seem to support the motorcyclists claim I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not going to instruct Calpe to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman