DRN-2415902
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Soteria Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to remove a Category N total loss marker from her car and 
compensate her for her out of pocket expenses. 
What happened
Miss R was involved in an incident and made a claim. But she was unhappy with Soterias 
valuation of her car and its repairs estimate that led to her car being deemed to be beyond 
economical repair. She was also unhappy with the salvage deduction Soteria made and its 
level of service.
Miss R wanted Soteria to pay for her fuel costs as she was without a courtesy car. Soteria 
agreed that it had made a mistake with the salvage deduction and corrected this. It also said 
it could have supported Miss R better and it offered her £50 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She checked the 
valuation Soteria had made of the car and thought this was fair and reasonable. She thought 
it had relied on expert engineers assessments to decide that the car was beyond 
economical repair. 
She thought Soteria had corrected the mistake with the salvage and this was now correctly 
calculated. She thought Soteria had provided a courtesy car in keeping with the policy terms 
and conditions. And so she didnt think it needed to reimburse Miss Rs fuel costs. And she 
thought its offer of compensation for the service issues was fair. 
Miss R replied that her car had passed its MOT and so all the work Soteria identified didnt 
need doing. She thought the repair costs had been inflated and provided an email from her 
garage. She said she would provide her own expert engineers report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss R feels frustrated by Soterias decision as she said she had her 
car repaired for much less than its estimate and it then passed its MOT. And I can see that 
she wanted about £4,500 for her car but Soteria hasnt increased its valuation. 
Soteria said it offered Miss R a settlement for the market value of her car, as defined in the 
policys terms and conditions. These state that the market value is The cost of replacing the 
car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the 
car immediately before the loss or damage happened.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Soterias offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Miss Rs car, and she took into account 
its optional extras. 
The offer that Soteria had made to Miss R was within the range of the valuations the 
investigator found. So I think Soterias valuation was fair and reasonable and correctly made 
according to our approach. And I dont require it to increase this. 
Miss R said her garage quoted her about £870 to repair her car whilst Soteria estimated this 
to be £4,005. Soterias decision led to the car being deemed a Category N total loss. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
I can see that Soteria had Miss Rs car assessed by an industry standard approach that 
produced a detailed report of the damage to her car and the cost of its repair. This was then 
reviewed by Soterias engineer and senior engineer. 
Miss R provided her own estimate for repairs made to her car. I can see that Soteria 
considered this and thought it wasnt detailed enough to ensure that the estimate covered all 
the work that needed doing or how this was to be repaired. Miss R also said that her car had 
passed its MOT after the repairs were made by her garage. But I cant say that this means 
that all the required repairs in Soterias estimate were carried out. 
When there is a dispute about repairs, I think a useful approach is for an independent 
assessor to carry out an assessment. But I think Soteria already had a detailed assessment 
that was checked by its engineers. I think it was for Miss R to provide an equivalent 
assessment by an expert engineer if she wanted to challenge this. And I cant see that shes 
provided such a report for Soteria to consider. 
So I think Soteria considered all the available evidence of the repairs needed for damage 
done to the car in the incident. And I think it has justified its decision about the total cost of 
the repairs. This meant that the car was beyond economical repair and I think Soteria is 
required to record this accurately. So I think Soteria correctly recorded the car as a Category 
N total loss and I dont require it to remove this marker. 
Miss R wanted to retain her cars salvage. I can see that Soteria initially miscalculated the 
salvage cost due to human error. But I think it corrected this and apologised to Miss R. From 
the evidence it has shown us, I think it hasnt treated Miss R unfairly or any differently to its 
other customers in making the salvage deduction. So I cant say that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this. 
Soteria provided Miss R with a courtesy car whilst her car was assessed. When her car was 
deemed to be a total loss, the car was withdrawn. I think it acted correctly in this. Its 
standard industry practice that a courtesy car is provided whilst the car is being repaired and 
not when the car is a total loss. So I dont require Soteria to compensate Miss R for her fuel 
costs. 
Soteria reviewed its response to Miss Rs complaint and agreed that its level of service could 
have been better when communicating with her. It paid Miss R £50 compensation for this. I 
think that was fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman