DRN-3335746
The complaint
Miss R and Mr T complain CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV unfairly declined Miss 
Rs claim and cancelled her policy.
What happened
Miss R and Mr T held a private medical insurance policy with CIGNA. They took the policy 
out in mid-2017. 
Later that year, Miss R made a claim for medical treatment. When assessing the claim, 
CIGNA said it had noted several pre-existing medical conditions on her records, which Miss 
R had not disclosed when taking out the policy. It said because of this, it would cancel the 
policy and refund the premiums that had been paid. 
Miss R and Mr T complained to CIGNA. CIGNA said when applying for the policy, Miss R 
had declared two instances of surgery which she underwent in 2004 and 2013. However 
when it obtained her medical records for the purpose of assessing her claim, it found 
evidence of several conditions and symptoms, which had not been disclosed, including a 
stomach condition, cervicogenic headaches and parasthesia. CIGNA said had this 
information been disclosed when Miss R applied for the policy, it would have been unable to 
offer the policy.
Unhappy with CIGNAs response, Miss R and Mr T brought their complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought Miss R had made 
a misrepresentation when taking out her policy, so CIGNA had not acted unfairly in 
cancelling it. 
CIGNA made no comments on the investigators view. However, Miss R and Mr T disagreed 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. They said Miss R had honestly disclosed 
information when taking the policy, and the claim she made was unrelated to any pre-
existing condition. 
As Miss R and Mr T disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIGNA has said Miss R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she answered its questions about her medical history. In the application form Miss R 
completed, CIGNA had asked if she had been treated for any of a list of symptoms and 
conditions including the following.  
Gall bladder, stomach, intestinal, gastric or liver problems. e.g. irritable bowel 
disease, colitis, Crohns disease, gastric or peptic ulcers, reflux, indigestion, 
heartburn, gall stones, hernia, haemorrhoids or hepatitis. 
Brain or neurological disorders e.g. multiple sclerosis, epilepsy or seizures, stroke, 
migraines, recurring or severe headaches, meningitis, shingles or nerve pain.
Miss R did not tick the box provided to indicate that any of the above applied. 
CIGNA also asked the following questions. 
Does anyone have any illness, condition or symptom not already mentioned? Please 
include details of any known or suspected issues, whether or not medical advice has 
been sought or a diagnosis reached. 
Does anyone take any medication, receive any treatment of any kind or expect to 
have a review or follow up for any current or past medical problem not already 
mentioned? 
And Miss R provided details of past surgery relating to her knee and an eye condition.
I think CIGNAs questions were clear and they had no time-frame attached. So Im satisfied it 
wanted to know about all previous symptoms, illnesses and conditions. And it asked 
specifically about the stomach and neurological disorders, specifically severe headaches. 
Miss Rs medical records showed she had suffered with a stomach condition, cervicogenic 
headaches, and parasthesia (which is a neurological condition) prior to taking out the policy. 
And Im persuaded she should have provided information about these symptoms and 
conditions when asked in her application form. 
Ive gone on to consider whether or not this was a qualifying misrepresentation, by looking at 
what difference this made to the policy which was offered. CIGNA has provided me with 
underwriting evidence which shows, had Miss R declared all of her relevant pre-existing 
medical conditions as required, it would have been unable to offer her the policy. And 
because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
CIGNA has treated this as a careless misrepresentation. And in these circumstances, the 
remedy available under CIDRA would be for the insurer to avoid the policy and decline any 
claims, as well as refunding the policy premiums. And thats what CIGNA has done, so Im 
satisfied it has acted fairly.  Miss R and Mr T have said that the claim Miss R made wasnt connected to any of her pre-
existing medical conditions. However this doesnt make a difference in these circumstances. 
Regardless of whether or not the claim was related to a pre-existing condition, due to the 
misrepresentation made when taking out the policy, the insurer is entitled to cancel the 
policy and turn down claims. And Im satisfied CIGNA would not have offered the policy to 
Miss R at all, had it been provided with all of the relevant information it asked for about her 
medical history.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman