DRN-3083961
The complaint
K, a limited company complains about the service it received from HSBC UK Bank Plc. K 
wants HSBC to involve its relationship managers when K has a problem, so the same issue 
doesnt arise in the future.
K is represented in this complaint by a director, Mr H.
What happened
K is a customer of HSBC and in early 2020, HSBC started a safeguarding review. HSBC 
says it didnt get a response from K to its letter of April 2020. HSBC wrote again in June 
2020 and extended the deadline for K to reply to mid-November 2020.
HSBC didnt hear from K, so it sent out a restriction and closure notice in mid-November 
2020.    Mr H received this letter and contacted Ks relationship manager to complain. Mr H 
said that K hadnt received any previous letters. He thought the best approach wouldve 
been to refer the matter to Ks relationship manager rather than threatening closure of its 
account.
HSBC told Mr H that it would carry out the review by phone, but this took longer than it 
shouldve done.
The investigator was satisfied that HSBC wrote to K in April and June 2020. She didnt think 
it was wrong of HSBC to start the closure process after K didnt reply.
After K complained to this service, HSBC offered £100 to apologise for the delays in carrying 
out the safeguarding review. The investigator thought this was reasonable.
K didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. Mr H disagrees with our approach 
about the letters that HSBC says it sent. He says that K completed a review with its other 
bank on time. If K had received HSBCs letters about the review, Mr H wouldve responded.
Mr H says that HSBC has incorrectly said he didnt make contact about the review. Mr H 
points out that he contacted HSBC after he received its letter of November 2020. Mr H says 
that the telephone review was carried out and completed in December 2020. But that HSBC 
didnt then confirm the restrictions on Ks account had been lifted.
Mr H says that HSBC didnt offer K £100 and that he still hasnt received written confirmation 
that the restrictions have been lifted.
Mr H points to the reputational damage caused by having to re-issue invoices to customers 
using an account that K held with a different bank. And the time he had to take away from 
the day to day business of K. But overall, Mr H says hes not seeking compensation on 
behalf of K and doesnt want to punish HSBC. He wants HSBC to include Ks relationship 
manager if problems arise in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ks complaint in my own words. Ive not responded to every 
single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this, Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
I should also say that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses 
that we cover. We resolve individual complaints  it would be for the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  to make decisions about the way in which financial businesses work. 
I cant direct HSBC to involve Ks relationship manager if problems arise in the future. But 
thats not to say that K couldnt complain again if it felt HSBC hadnt handled a problem in 
the way that it should.
Mr H on behalf of K says that it didnt receive HSBCs requests to complete the safeguard 
review. I appreciate that Mr H says if he had, he wouldve responded. But I dont find this 
must mean that HSBC didnt send the letters. 
I cant hold HSBC responsible for any failure in the postal service and it says the letters 
werent returned as undelivered. Although Mr H suggests that HSBC might have backdated 
the letters, I dont have enough evidence to reach this conclusion. 
I dont consider it was unreasonable of HSBC to notify K of its intention to restrict and close 
the account after it couldnt complete the safeguard review. This was in line with HSBCs 
Business Banking Terms and Conditions. Although Mr H wouldve preferred Ks relationship 
manager to make contact before sending out this letter, I dont find that this means HSBC 
made a mistake. 
I do consider that HSBCs performance was less than stellar once Mr H made contact after 
receiving its letter of mid-November 2020. HSBC didnt complete the review by the deadline 
it gave for restricting Ks accounts. It also sent further letters to K threatening restriction and 
closure of its account, even though by this time, Mr H had completed the safeguarding 
review by phone. 
Through this service, HSBC offered to pay K £100 to apologise for the inconvenience this 
caused. I know this isnt a large sum, but Im satisfied that its reasonable in the 
circumstances. Particularly as K had access to other banking facilities and HSBC didnt 
restrict its account. 
 My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay 
K £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman