DRN-3753276
The complaint
Mr B complains that his bank Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund him the 
money he has lost as the result of being the victim of a scam.
Mr B is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr B 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr B was looking to carry out an extension to his property and had taken out a 
loan to complete the work. The loan amount he had taken was not enough to complete the 
work he was hoping to have carried out.
Mr B received a cold call from a business and was told he was able to invest in crypto 
starting with a low deposit of around £250. I will call this business (A). With the promise of 
high returns Mr B agreed to take part in the investment.
Having gained confidence with Mr B, A convinced him to download an app to his device 
allowing it to share his screen. Over the next few weeks Mr B was convinced to invest over 
£11,000 making 11 transfers from his account, including three payments that were 
individually for more than £1,000. 
It turned out that Mr B had been the victim of a scam and once Mr B had transferred his 
funds to legitimate crypto platforms they were lost to A.
Our Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said Mr 
B had previously made payments to a crypto platform. He also said that when one of the 
larger payments were attempted it was stopped and a call between Mr B and Lloyds took 
place. During the call Mr B gave incorrect information to Lloyds despite Lloyds warning him 
of the possible consequences of him making payments like those he was making. 
Our Investigator thought that if Mr B had been truthful during the call with Lloyds it was likely 
his loss would have been prevented and Lloyds had not done anything wrong. 
Mr B disagreed with our Investigators view and thought Lloyds should have done more to 
prevent the scam. As Mr B didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr B and Lloyds sets out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds should 
refund any of the money Mr B has lost because of this scam.
Mr B was convinced to make a series of payments to a legitimate crypto platform. Due to the 
amount of some of the payments they were stopped, and a text message was sent to Mr B 
asking him to get in touch with Lloyds.
I think it was reasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention system was triggered when the 
payment for £5,000 was attempted meaning it needed more information from Mr B to help 
keep his money safe. I think the earlier payments made were for lower less significant 
amounts and spread out over several days so were less likely to cause any fraud concerns,
I have listened to the call that took place between Mr B and Lloyds when he was attempting 
to transfer £5,000 as part of the scam. The Lloyds representative clearly asked Mr B if he 
had been contacted by anyone to make the payment but Mr B answered incorrectly that he 
hadnt.
Lloyds went on to say that it could see screen share software had been installed on his 
device. It explained that this software is often used as part of a scam but can also have a 
legitimate purpose. Lloyds asked Mr B if he had been asked to download the software by a 
third party but again Mr B said he hadnt (when that wasnt the case).
Mr B explained he was attempting to make an investment in crypto and that this was his own 
decision.
Considering the payments Mr B was making were to a legitimate crypto platform and he had 
given incorrect answers to questions designed to discover scams on his account I see no 
reason why Lloyds would seek to prevent any of the payments leaving his account. 
With the information available to Lloyds at the time of the scam I dont think it was 
responsible for any of Mr Bs losses and I dont think it needs to refund any of the payments 
Mr B made.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman