DRN-2614369
The complaint
Mr D complains hes being chased for a debt that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) previously agreed to write off. Hes also 
unhappy about their reporting of the debt to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mr D accepted this services final decision on his car complaint in January 2020 and at that 
point the decision became legally binding on BPF and on him. It was agreed that he would 
pay for the fair use hed had from the vehicle.
Its clear BPF made mistakes when they attempted to confirm how much Mr D owed them. 
They initially asked for too much and subsequently provided a letter in which they applied a 
goodwill gesture that was equivalent to the debt and that therefore appeared to clear Mr Ds 
debt with them.
Theyve subsequently put that right and are now asking Mr D to pay arrears in line with this 
services January 2020 decision.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration when, despite previously informing him he had nothing to 
pay, BPF then sent him a revised bill. But, whilst BPF should compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this I dont think it would be fair to tell them to waive 
the debt. That debt was agreed by Mr D when he accepted this services decision and there 
was no reason BPF should waive it.
Mr D is unhappy that BPF have reported his payment performance, on the debt that now 
exists, to the credit reference agencies as he says the decision of this service was that the 
finance agreement should be terminated. But that didnt mean he wasnt responsible for 
paying for the use he had from the car and, as those payments havent been made, I dont 
think BPF have done anything wrong when reporting those missed payments to his credit 
report - thats an accurate reflection of Mr Ds credit performance.
Mr D is also upset about a default that was reported by BPF in October 2020 but as BPF 
havent considered that complaint yet, hell need to refer it to them first. If Mr D remains 
unhappy about their decision he can then refer it to this service.
Putting things right
BPF should compensate Mr D for the distress and inconvenience they caused him when 
they gave inaccurate information about the balance on his account. In the circumstances I 
think £100 is sufficient.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr D £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced as a result of their actions.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman