DRN-2354051
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr D has income protection with Unum. He became absent from work in July 2018 and 
owing to sight problems and shoulder pain. Mr D said his symptoms are so severe that hes 
unable to return to work. 
Unum said that although Mr D suffered with eye problems since 2011 that these were 
corrected by 2017 and that there was no on-going problem that would prevent him working. 
It said that Mr Ds self-reported symptoms are not supported by medical evidence and so 
theres no cover available in the circumstances. 
Our investigator said that Unums decision was fair because theres no medical evidence to 
support that Mr D was suffering with an illness severe enough to stop him working. 
Mr D disagreed and supplied further medical evidence to support his visual, and shoulder 
problems. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because I agree with the opinion 
reached by our investigator and mainly for the same reasons. For there to be a successful 
claim on the income protection policy, Mr D must evidence that hes suffering from an illness 
thats severe enough to preclude him from work. Ive not seen any persuasive medical 
evidence that supports that. Ill explain why. 
Mr D made further representations since our investigators view about his conditions. But this 
evidence doesnt support his claim because it says about his visual problems;
Both intraocular lenses are nicely centred and stable. His eyes are quiet and both retinas 
are beautifully attached. For now, I once again see no on going ocular problems and I would 
anticipate his vision would be stable for some time
The above statement from Mr Ds consultant ophthalmic surgeon was given following an 
assessment in as recent as February 2020. I think his comments go some way to show that 
theres no on-going eye problems, and nothing that would preclude Mr D from returning to 
work. Ive also seen advice given to Mr D about changing glasses, should he continue to 
have further sight problems. Much of the other medical evidence provided by Mr D related to 
the problems he suffered previously, before 2018, when he first became too unwell to work 
and so I find it less persuasive in the circumstances. Its not in dispute that Mr D suffered 
with moderately severe eye problems, but these were corrected and theres no persuasive 
medical evidence that suggested he suffered with on-going symptoms severe enough to 
preclude him from work. 
 
In terms of Mr Ds shoulder pain, again, theres very little in the way of persuasive medical 
evidence to show this was a problem. Mr D suffered a fracture to his shoulder and corrective 
surgery was carried out in July 2018, alongside physiotherapy, it appeared as though Mr D 
had made a full recovery. Unum explained the expected recovery time from such treatment 
was expected to be two months. I accept this is somewhat subjective as everyone responds 
differently to surgery. However, theres no medical evidence to show that this was an on-
going issue for Mr D. Theres no further mention of Mr Ds shoulder problems in his medical 
notes, other than the self-reported symptoms he explained to Unum in 2019. 
Unums terms say;
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
 Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation, and are 
 Not performing any occupation
Its because of this, I think Unum declined Mr Ds claim fairly. Theres no medical evidence 
that persuades me that he suffered with an illness severe enough that he couldnt return to 
work. And so, Im satisfied that Unum applied the above term fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Unum doesnt need to do anything in respect of the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman