DRN-3355642
The complaint
Mr J complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr J took out two Everyday Lending loans as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment Loan Status
Loan 1 November 2017 £3,000 24 months £217.66 Paid March 2019
Loan 2 March 2019 £7,718 24 months £467.49 Outstanding.
When Mr J complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold his complaint. Everyday Loans 
said it completed reasonable and proportionate checks and its affordability assessment 
showed that Mr J had disposable income left after paying for these loans. So Mr J brought 
his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators looked into it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. Mr J disagreed with our adjudicators view 
and he asked for his complaint to be re-investigated. So it comes to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Mr J that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say 
this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
loan 1
Everyday Loans asked Mr J about his income and expenditure and its own checks showed 
that his average monthly income was around £1,775. Everyday Loans also carried out credit 
checks to gain an understanding of Mr Js credit history and see his current credit 
commitments. There was no indication of any serious financial difficulty apparent from 
looking at the credit checks Everyday Loans obtained. 
When assessing affordability, Everyday Loans mainly relied on statistical information and 
factored into its calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure 
someone in Mr Js position might reasonably expect to pay. 
Everyday Loans also worked out that Mr J needed to pay around £524 towards his existing 
credit commitments. After also paying for this loan, Everyday Loans calculated that Mr J 
shouldve had around £411 left over each month and on this basis it was satisfied that the 
loan would be sustainably affordable for him. 
I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Loans were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances and that it was fair to conclude that the loan repayments looked like they 
shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr J based on the information it had gathered.
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr J provided or the other information 
Everyday Loans had recorded, which meant that the lender shouldve taken more steps to 
check the information Mr J had declared. And I think the checks were enough for Everyday 
Loans to agree to lend. 
So I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
By this time, Everyday Loans saw that Mr Js pay had gone up to around £2,474 and 
Everyday Loans recorded information showing that his creditor repayments had also gone 
up to around £910. I think its fair to say that loan 2 looked like it shouldve been affordable 
for Mr J as it appeared he should still have had around £334 spare cash after paying for 
loan 2.
Mr J hadnt shown Everyday Loans any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his 
borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Everyday Loans had collected, 
seem to support its lending decision. Mr Js total indebtedness didnt seem unreasonable or 
excessive for someone in Mr Js position. Keeping in mind that Everyday Loans had 
arranged to consolidate some of Mr Js other debts I think it was reasonable for Everyday 
Loans to conclude that this loan ought to have been affordable for Mr J.
Looked at overall, I dont think there was enough in the information that Everyday Loans saw 
that I think wouldve made it realise that Mr J couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable 
way. It was too soon for Everyday Loans reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr J was over-reliant on this type of borrowing and so it shouldnt have lent to him. And using the loan to repay credit card debt could have 
been helpful to Mr J and avoided this becoming potentially longer-term expensive debt that 
would continue to accrue high interest.
To sum up, I think the checks that Everyday Lending carried out before it agreed to provide 
loan 2 were proportionate and it was entitled to rely on the information it acquired which 
showed that this loan looked sustainably affordable for Mr J.
Im sorry that Mr J found himself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mr Js financial situation 
possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other information 
Everyday Lending obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a 
lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that 
Everyday Lending did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr J. It did sufficient checks in 
the particular circumstances of these loan applications and made fair lending decisions 
based on the information it obtained.
So I havent identified any reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award of 
redress against Everyday Lending and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr J. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. If Mr J is still in a 
position where he would like help to manage his finances, theres more information about 
how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us 
a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint and I make no award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman