DRN-4237661
The complaint
Ms D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to add a reference number to a transfer of 
£5,000 from her account to her husbands account which was held with a different provider 
this led to the funds not arriving.
Ms D is also unhappy with issues that she was having using her debit card whilst abroad.
What happened
In December 2022 Ms D attempted to send £5,000 to her husbands account in Jordan. 
When making this transfer Ms D asked for a specific reference to be added to the transfer. 
Due to an error on HSBCs part, this reference was not added. Therefore, the transfer was 
rejected by the receiving bank. 
The funds were due to be used by Ms D on a family holiday that was due to take place at the 
end of January 2023. But the funds were not returned to her until March 2023.
In addition to this Ms D was having issues with her debit card and online banking, whilst on 
the holiday she says she was unable to use the card. She contacted HSBC on a number of 
occasions before a work around was reached.
Ms D says that these issues combined ruined her holiday as she was unable to pay for 
things and that she had to borrow money from a third party.
HSBC initially offered £200 compensation for this matter, after one of our adjudicators 
looked into this matter this offer was increased to £400. Ms D did not accept this and says 
that she should be compensated £2,000. So this case has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that HSBC made errors in relation to this matter - both by not adding the reference 
to the initial transfer, and by giving incorrect information in how to resolve the debit card and 
online banking issues. Both parties agree that this is the case. So all that remains for me to 
consider is what level of compensation is appropriate. Deciding on awards for distress and 
inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are subjective by their very 
nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. 
I also need to factor in that Ms D chose to travel knowing she did not have access to the 
£5,000 that was still in limbo and knowing that she was having issues in relation to her online 
banking and that she was unsure of what her pin number was too. I also think it would be 
reasonable to expect someone to take more than one means of payment when travelling 
abroad given the potentially difficult circumstances that would arise if a method of payment 
failed. Im not blaming Ms D for only taking one method of payment, that of course was her 
choice to make. But I need to consider this when deciding how much to award as I dont 
think it would be fair to hold HSBC wholly responsible for Ms D being unable to do all she 
wanted to do whilst on holiday. 
I also need to consider that the cause of the online banking and debit card issues stem from 
Ms D seeming to change her phone number and not entering her pin number correctly, 
resulting in her card being blocked. So I cant hold HSBC responsible for these issues. 
I note that Ms D was given incorrect information in how to resolve these issues whilst 
abroad. But from what I can see, I dont think that they could have been completely solved 
by HSBC whilst Ms D was abroad. HSBC did eventually manage to find a solution whereby 
Ms D transferred funds to a third-party money transfer service to allow her to have access to 
cash whilst abroad.
So I am satisfied that HSBC did all that it could in the circumstances, given that Ms D did not 
know her pin number to allow her to have access to cash while she was abroad.
Having considered everything, I understand the distress this matter obviously caused Ms D. 
But I have to be mindful that some of the issues were not directly caused by HSBC. So 
overall, I uphold this am satisfied that the £400 that HSBC have agreed to pay is in line with 
what I would have recommended, had it not already agreed to do so.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Ms D a total of £400 compensation, minus any amount already paid to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman