DRN-3315571
The complaint
Mr S complains that One Sure Insurance Limited gave him poor service in connection with a
motor trade insurance policy.
Where I refer to One Sure, I include employees and others insofar as I hold One Sure
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr S was a construction company director. He wanted to work part-time as a motor trader.
One Sure acted as an intermediary between Mr S and his insurers. In February 2021, One
Sure and Mr S arranged motor trade insurance by telephone. The insurance started on 18
February 2021. The total cost was as follows:
insurers premium £1,463.13
arrangement fee £   471.87
legal cover £     34.50
total £1,969.50
After checking the documents, Mr S contacted One Sure to complain that it had made errors.
On 25 February 2021, he emailed One Sure to cancel the insurance.
By a letter dated 8 March 2021, the motor trade insurer gave seven days notice of
cancellation of its policy. One Sure asked the insurer to cancel the policy with effect from 25
February 2021.
On about 23 March 2021, One Sure said Mr S had a credit balance of £157.32. One Sure
wrote a final response dated late March 2021.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in May 2021. He said that One Sure should refund what
hed paid and remove the cancellation. One Sure told us that it had only charged for time on
risk and half the arrangement fee.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was
fair for One Sure to charge even half the arrangement fee (£235.94). She recommended that
One Sure should only charge £100.00 arrangement fee and refund the difference to Mr S
with 8% interest.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to One Sure on 19 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied that One Sure had done enough to draw its terms to Mr Ss 
attention at the point of sale. And I wasnt satisfied that an arrangement fee of 
£235.93 would be proportionate to the administrative work One Sure had done to set 
up the policy. So I didnt find that One Sure had treated Mr S fairly.
One Sure hadnt explained why it hadnt refunded for the legal cover after Mr S asked 
 within the cooling-off period  for cancellation. 
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from One Sure, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct One Sure Insurance Limited to pay Mr S:
1. in addition to its figure of £157.32  further amounts as follows:
part refund of arrangement fee   £135.93
refund of legal cover                   £  34.50
total £170.43
2. simple interest on the total of £170.43 from 25 February 2021 to the date of the 
refund. If One Sure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr S hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
One Sure says it has actioned the refund.
So I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against one regulated
financial firm at a time. In our final decision, we name that firm, but we dont identify any
other party or make any findings against them.
We look at individual complaints. We take into account the law, contractual terms, regulation
and good practice. Above all we have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
From the first call recording, I note that Mr S said he was a director of a company and he
outlined the nature of its business. Mr S asked about protecting his no claims bonus, but 
One Sure said it couldnt arrange that. The first quotation was to cover both Mr S and his 
wife to drive. Mr S found the quotation too high. He asked for a quotation to cover him but 
not her.
One Sures terms of business included the following:
What You Pay
We normally receive commission from insurers or product providers, typically this is
from 5%-20%..... We act as a credit broker and offer introductions to [a finance
provider ] to facilitate the payment of your premiums. We may receive commission for
this which is typically 15.45%.
We do not charge any additional fees (payable by you) for handling your insurance or
arranging premium finance unless we have agreed these with you in advance. Any
fees we do charge are set out below:
- Policy arrangement fee: Up to 40% of the insurer's premium or £100 whichever is
greater. This is non-refundable in the event of cancellation whether applied at new
business or renewal.
- Adjustment/policy alteration fee: £35.00
- Cancellation fee: £85.00 (if cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period)

- If your policy is voided as a result of misrepresentation or fraud, we will retain any
commission lost as a result of the voidance, along with an administration fee of
£80.00 and the retention of any arrangement fee applied at the point of sale

- Administration fee of any policy treated as 'Not Taken Up' - £25.00 or the retention
of our arrangement fee, whichever is greater

- Administration fee on any refunds issued - £5.00. Any credit due back to you will not
be refunded if the value is less than £15

- In the event that a discount is applied to your policy and your policy is cancelled, we
will reverse this discount, which will result in a debit for the amount of the discount
being applied.

- In the event of there being a rebate of premium following an adjustment /
cancellation on the insurance policy, we will apply a charge of 20% of the rebate to
cover any commission clawback that the insurer(s) may apply. Refunds will only be
issued once we receive the monies from the insurers, this can take up to 6 weeks,
but with some insurers it may take upto 6 months.
So the terms said that there would be a non-refundable policy arrangement fee of at least
£100.00 and up to 40% of the insurers premium. One Sure has also referred to this as a
NB charge which I think means new business. Ive noted that the terms of business said
that  on cancellation - One Sure could take 20% of the insurers refund to cover clawback of
commission.
The terms of business also included the following:
Cancellation

If your insurance policy is cancelled, either by us or if requested by yourself a
cancellation fee of £85.00 will be levied against all policies unless you are
replacing your policy through our agency. No fees previously charged by us will be
refundable. In addition to the charges levied by us, the terms of your policy may allow
insurers to retain the premium in full or to charge short-period premiums in the event
of cancellation. . Please note that we do not provide any refund for any legal
Assistance Packages sold, unless this is within the 14 day cooling off period.
So the terms provided for a cancellation fee of £85.00 in addition to the non-refundable
arrangement fee.
But  whether for new business or for a renewal - I would expect a policy arrangement fee to
reflect One Sures work involved in setting up the policy. So I wouldnt expect an
arrangement fee to be a percentage  let alone 40% - of the insurers premium.
And  from the call recordings - Im not satisfied that One Sure did enough to draw its termsto Mr Ss attention when he agreed to its terms at the point of sale.
From the second call recording, I note that One Sure provided a lower quotation. I consider
that it shouldve reminded Mr S that it didnt cover his wife.
Mr S says he made an initial payment of £483.75. So I find it likely that he agreed to pay the
balance by instalments.
Shortly after the policy started, Mr S noticed that One Sure had recorded his (non-motor
trade) occupation as service manager. And One Sure couldve described Mr Ss
occupation more accurately as a company director. Mr S explained this to One Sure again. I
can understand that Mr S was irritated by this.
He was also concerned that the policy documents said he wouldnt be covered for
commuting to his main place of work in his private car.
The motor trade insurer sent a notice of cancellation asking about the nature of the business
of Mr Ss company. So One Sure hadnt told the insurer what Mr S had said about his
company.
From an email dated the next day, I dont find that the insurer enforced the cancellation of
the policy. Rather, the insurer accepted that Mr S had asked for the cancellation. So, in my 
view, the cancellation wont count against him.
In any event, I think it would be the insurer rather than One Sure that would be responsible if
the cancellation were recorded on any external database. So I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct One Sure to do anything about the way the cancellation is recorded.
I find it likely that One Sure suffered a loss of commission. But its email of 23 March 2021
said Mr S had a credit balance of £157.32. From what Ive seen, One Sures arithmetic
mustve been as follows:
amount paid by Mr S £483.75
less arrangement fee £235.93
less time on risk £ 56.00
less legal cover £ 34.50
due to Mr S £157.32
So I accept that One Sure hasnt charged Mr S for loss of commission. I note also that One
Sure hasnt charged a cancellation fee.
I also note that One Sure had halved its arrangement fee from £471.87 to £235.93.
Nevertheless, Im not satisfied that One Sure had done enough to draw its terms to Mr Ss
attention at the point of sale. And Im not satisfied that an arrangement fee of £235.93 would
be proportionate to the administrative work One Sure had done to set up the policy. So I 
dont find that One Sure has treated Mr S fairly.
Mr S had cover for the period of days between 18 February and 25 February 2021. Ive seen
that on 12 March 2021, the insurer sent an email including the following:
An RP of £1407.13 inc IPT has been generated.
From that, I find that  from its premium of £1,463.13 - the insurer had calculated a return
premium of £1,407.13. By deduction, I find that the insurer had charged £56.00 for the timeon risk of about a week. I find that the insurer was responsible for setting that charge for time
on risk. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to do anything about that
charge.
One Sure hasnt explained why it hasnt refunded the cost of the legal cover after Mr S
asked  within the cooling-off period  for cancellation.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr S of the shortcomings for which Ive found One Sure
responsible. But the impact was mostly financial. So I consider that Mr S was right to focus
on asking for a refund rather than for compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
So, in an attempt to put things right, I will direct One Sure to limit its fees to £100.00
and to refund to Mr S  in addition to its figure of £157.32  further amounts as follows:
part refund of arrangement fee £135.93
refund of legal cover £  34.50
As Mr S will have been out of pocket for about a year, I find it fair to direct One Sure to add 
interest at our usual rate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct One Sure Insurance Limited to pay Mr S (insofar as it hasnt already paid him):
1. in addition to its figure of £157.32  further amounts as follows:
part refund of arrangement fee   £135.93
refund of legal cover                   £  34.50
total £170.43
2. simple interest on the total of £170.43 from 25 February 2021 to the date of the 
refund. If One Sure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman