DRN-2439415
The complaint
 Mr R complains that his claim for an all in one Lenovo PC was rejected by Ageas Insurance
Limited (Ageas), following an accident at his home. He wants Ageas to pay his claim. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr R reported damage to his desktop computer. He explained that the power
cable had become caught under the leg of a table and that this appeared to have caused an
electrical shortage, damaging the machine.
Mr R took his PC to a local computer repair shop. The repair shop diagnosed that there was
likely an issue with the LED screen, in either the backlight or the screen itself. The repair
shop considered that the PC was beyond economic repair.
Mr R claimed under his household insurance.
Ageas asked their electrical supplier to inspect the PC to confirm whether the damage was
consistent with accidental damage, as covered by Mr Rs policy.
The electrical supplier prepared a report confirming that there was no evidence of liquid
damage or power surge damage. The engineer considered that the damage could be
consistent with the PC having been dropped, and that an impact could have caused the
graphics chip controller to be damaged. The engineer considered, however, that as the claim
did not detail an impact then it was unlikely that the damage was caused by the scenario
described by Mr R.
Ageas therefore considered that the damage was more likely electrical failure, which was not
covered by the policy.
Mr R was not happy with this rejection and complained. He obtained his own specialist
report on the damage, and also consulted the manufacturer of the PC for their opinion on
whether the power cable being trapped could have caused the damage.
Ageas maintained its refusal of his claim.
Mr R contacted us.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and set out his view to the parties.
This was that the reports did not dispute Mr Rs account of events, but that Ageas
considered that the damage was a result of electrical failure, which was excluded by the
policy. He therefore considered that Ageas had acted reasonably in their consideration of Mr
Rs claim and had done nothing wrong in rejecting it.
Mr R did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I reviewed the file of evidence and set out my preliminary view in a provisional decision 
issued in November 2020. 
In this provisional decision I explained that I did not consider that Ageas had done enough to 
disprove Mr Rs account of how the damage was sustained and I thought it should settle the 
claim, with interest from the date of loss. 
I also considered that Ageas should pay Mr R compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience of £150. 
Mr R indicated that he accepted my provisional decision.
Ageas made a number of submissions, which I summarise as follows:
Ageas accepts that it is for Ageas to prove that an exclusion has been fairly applied, 
but it is not for Ageas to prove the claim. It is the consumers responsibility to prove 
that they have sustained a loss which falls under the terms of their policy. Ageas 
does not believe that Mr R has done this. 
Ageas does not consider that it must demonstrate that there was a latent defect in 
order to rely on the electrical fault exclusion.
Ageas thinks that I have given more weight to the reports submitted by Mr R than to 
the report from their engineers.
Ageas made submissions about how the cable became stuck and what evidence of 
damage it would expect to see in those circumstances. It concludes that there was 
no evidence of damage to the cable and considers that in the absence of evidence 
of damage to the cable, of damage by water ingress, surge damage or damage 
caused by an electrical short, then the damage has not been proved to be the result 
of sudden and unexpected external means. 
Finally, Ageas submitted that my assessment of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience was excessive.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the submissions received from Ageas and should make clear that 
in considering this complaint I am not arbitrating what damage actually happened to the 
computer. I have not seen the computer and I am not qualified to assess the damage 
sustained to the computer. 
My role is to consider whether Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when it declined Mr Rs 
claim, in light of the evidence available to it. 
To address the points made by Ageas, firstly I accept that Mr R is required to demonstrate 
that he has a claim. I believe he has done this to the required standard. He has given an 
explanation of what occurred, and he has produced two reports which support that the 
scenario he described could result in the type of damage sustained. 
One of these reports was theoretical, as the manufacturer had not seen the machine, and 
the other gave a detailed explanation of how the scenario described could cause damage to 
the display. This second report analysed the consumers description of events and considered it was credible that the event described by Mr R resulted in the damage.
Once Mr R had demonstrated his claim to this standard, the onus then moved to Ageas to 
demonstrate that an exclusion applied, or to disprove Mr Rs claim.  
Ageass report does not go into detail about what inspection was carried out of the computer 
and what was seen (or what would be expected to be seen). It does not meaningfully 
engage with Mr Rs account of what happened and does not conclude that (or explain why) 
Mr Rs account could not have resulted in the damage. It also does not identify any positive 
evidence that an exclusion applies. 
Ageass report sets out the engineers conclusion of what he considers more likely to have 
happened but, without the supporting explanations and without fully addressing Mr Rs 
account and evidence, it is not sufficient to disprove the claim (especially as this is supported 
as credible by two reports). 
Accordingly, I do not think that Ageas has demonstrated that the claim was excluded, and I 
remain of the view that Ageas was wrong to decline the claim, based on the evidence 
available to it. 
I do not intend to address what would or would not have been visible in various scenarios at 
this stage because, as set out above, I am not concluding what did or did not happen to the 
computer. 
Finally, in respect of the level of compensation I provisionally awarded, Ageas set out that 
their decision was not so wholly unreasonable as to warrant this level of compensation. 
I have reflected on this and to an extent I agree. I have not seen evidence of particular 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr R, but in any event, I accept that the majority of 
inconvenience Mr R suffered this would be attributable to the breakage of the computer and 
having to make a claim, rather than due to wrongdoing by Ageas. 
I note that, as I am upholding the complaint, Mr R will benefit by his claim being paid, and 
that some of his inconvenience, such as having to obtain reports from specialists, would 
have also been the case if Ageas had settled the claim. I therefore think that the level of 
compensation I provisionally awarded should be reduced to £50 to reflect Mr Rs distress 
and inconvenience.  
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, in addition to those given in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr Rs complaint and think that in order to put things right, Ageas should pay Mr Rs claim 
(along with interest) and should pay him £50 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr Rs claim;
Add interest to the value of the claim at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of loss
up until the date of settlement; and To pay to Mr R £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman