DRN-1731867
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy that Mr P took out in 2004 with a credit card through the 
post. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Tesco have provided a copy of the application form which Mr P completed and signed for his 
credit card. Theres a section on this form dealing with PPI and I can see that Mr P has 
ticked a box in this section to confirm that he wanted to take this cover. In another section of 
the form, Mr P could have chosen to take cardholder cover but doesnt appear to have done 
this. So, from what Ive seen, I think that Mr P actively decided to take the PPI knowing he 
could choose not to. But this sale took place a long time ago, so I would understand it if Mr P 
wasnt able to recall this now.
I dont think Tesco recommended the PPI policy to Mr P, so it didnt need to ensure that the 
policy was suitable for him. But it did still need to give Mr P enough information for him to 
decide if he wanted to take the PPI policy. I think the information which Tesco gave Mr P 
could have been better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed 
his mind about taking it. I say this because:
 
Mr P appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr P says he didnt need the policy because he would have received sick pay from 
his employer. But Mr P chose to take the PPI, so it seems that he valued the sort of 
protection it provided. And the policy would have paid out in addition to his sick pay 
and for longer than this would have lasted. It would have covered him for up to twelve months if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment, 
together with giving him some life cover. So I still think he would have thought the 
policy gave him useful additional cover if things went wrong.
 
Although Mr P says he was in some financial difficulty at the time of the sale, Ive no 
strong reason to think the cost of the policy was unaffordable for him. And as its 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
                        
Ive thought carefully about the reasons why Mr P still thinks the PPI was mis-sold, but this 
hasnt changed my mind about not upholding his complaint. I still dont think that Mr P has 
lost out by anything that Tesco may have done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
This means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. 
But Tesco Bank does have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.   
 
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9July2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman