DRN-4161093
The complaint
Mrs M complained about the service received from Janus Henderson Fund Management UK 
Limited (Janus). She said Janus delayed the transfer of her Stocks and Shares Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) to a third party. 
What happened
Mrs M held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Janus. Mrs M said that she had intentions to 
transfer the funds from her Janus account in its entirety to a third party.
Through her financial advisor she initially, on 8 February 2022 requested information about 
the ISA. This was through an email. Janus asked for this to be sent as a letter for security 
reasons. Mrs M subsequently did on 12 February 2022. It wasnt until 4 April 2022, that 
Janus provided this information to Mrs Ms financial advisor. It has admitted that it took too 
long to send the information that was requested, has said sorry and paid compensation for 
this of £50.   
Mrs M then put a transfer request in, to Janus on 21 May 2022 for it to transfer all funds to 
the third party. Janus did this two days later on 23 May 2022. However, some of the holdings 
that Mrs M held, had dividends that were yet to be paid. Janus said that it should have 
arranged for the outstanding distribution here to be sent to the new plan manager, but it 
didnt do so. It said this caused a delay where a further two payments were made on 20 
June 2022 and 27 June 2022. This meant that the final settlement date for all funds was 
1July 2022. Janus said it should have arranged this sooner when it was dealing with the 
transfer of funds on 23 May 2022. It again said sorry and paid compensation of £150 for 
what it called two oversights.  
Mrs M expected the transfer to take place sooner and made a complaint to Janus about this. 
She said that the offer of compensation was not enough to cover the financial loss that a 
delay of 12 weeks would have caused. She said the funds she had invested in were of a 
higher value several weeks before the transfer eventually took place. She said she has lost 
out because of the delay caused by Janus. She said this transfer was in relation to the 
money she needed for her retirement and the stress caused wasnt reflected in the amount 
of compensation offered.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
To recap, Mrs Ms financial advisor asked Janus for information about her stocks and 
shares ISA on 8 February 2022. On 4 April 2022 Janus provided the information requested. 
Mrs M then put in a request for a transfer to a third party on 21 May 2022. On 23 May 2022 
the request was carried out for all the funds held at that time. After this date, further funds 
had accumulated due to dividend payments. There were a further two payments from Janus 
to the third party on 20 June 2022 and 27 June 2022.
Mrs M has said she has suffered financial loss due to the lengthy delay from Janus in it 
transferring her ISA. She said it took around 12 weeks to do which is too long. I 
acknowledge what Mrs M has said here and the frustration she must have felt in trying to 
deal with her request and get it sorted out. 
I can see though, that the longest delay was not in relation to the ISA transfer request, but 
was in relation to a request to obtain information about the ISA. This delay went up to 4 April 
2022. On balance, I dont think it is reasonable to conclude that there was a certainty that 
Mrs M was going to transfer the ISA from Janus to a third party. Rather it was an information 
gathering request from Mrs Ms financial advisor that would then have led to her obtaining 
advice about whether to transfer the ISA or not. Janus has admitted that it took too long to 
provide this information to Mrs Ms financial advisor and has paid £50 compensation for this.
Mrs Ms transfer request was submitted on 21 May 2022. HMRC guidance suggests that it 
should take 30 calendar days to transfer a stocks and shares ISA from one provider to 
another. So, I would have expected Janus to have completed the transfer by at the latest 20 
June 2022. I can see that Janus completed the transfer of funds in her ISA account two days 
later on 23 May 2022. But then there was, as Janus has described two oversights. On two 
occasions dividend payments were distributed to Mrs Ms ISA account after the transfer of 
her funds. Janus has admitted that as Mrs Ms request had fallen after the ex-dividend date 
for the funds she held, that it couldve calculated and paid the distribution from these funds 
at the same time, and it didnt. This resulted in these payments being sent over separately 
on two occasions. Both payments settled with the new provider outside of the government 
guidance of 30 calendar days to transfer. The first payment settled on 24 June 2022 and the 
second being 1 July 2022.
Janus accepts it was responsible for delaying the transfer of these two payments and has 
paid compensation of £150 for this. So, I dont need to make a finding on whether it was 
responsible for the delay in the transfer of these two dividend payments or whether it was 
responsible for the delay in providing information. Janus says it was.
What I do need to consider is whether Januss offer to put things right is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M says she should be compensated for investment losses that she says she has 
suffered due to the delays caused by Janus. But as I have already explained I dont think 
there was a delay of 12 weeks by Janus in dealing with the transfer of Mrs Ms ISA. Instead, 
I think it was responsible for a delay in providing information to Mrs M and her adviser. I think 
it was also responsible for a short delay of several days in the payment of two dividends.
Janus has offered to pay a total of £200 that it says is ex gratia for the delays. It said it has 
offered this for the substantial delay in providing information, and then for the two oversights 
with the dividend payments. I currently think broadly that this offer is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I say this because I do think Mrs M has suffered some distress and 
inconvenience from having to deal with the delays that Janus has said it caused. 
Mrs M also received two dividend payments later than she wouldve expected, by about a 
week or two. Janus has said the compensation offered covered any loss she wouldve 
suffered here. I again dont think this is unreasonable considering the short period of time 
that Mrs M had to wait for her funds. 
I understand Janus has already paid the £200 compensation to Mrs M. For the reasons I 
have given above, I dont think it needs to do anything further.I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Neither party responded by the deadline that I gave. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman