DRN-3308506
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim 
following an escape of water, under her home contents insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs S noticed damage caused by a water leak in her kitchen. She 
arranged for a family member who is a plumber to inspect. He found a leak with the water 
supply stop tap and fixed the problem. Mrs S then registered a claim with Lloyds under her 
home contents insurance policy. She was told to provide a letter from the plumber explaining 
the cause of the leak and how it had been resolved. 
Mrs S provided the letter in early December 2020. After a delay she was told the letter was 
insufficient. Mrs S phoned Lloyds and explained the plumber didnt want his employer to 
know he had done work, on the side. He couldnt use his employers company headed 
paper to provide a report. So, Lloyds agreed for the plumber to call and explain the cause of 
the leak and the work he had done to fix it. 
Mrs S arranged for the plumber to ring the same day. There was a further delay and Mrs S 
chased a response. She was told no call had been received and Lloyds needed evidence of 
the cause of the leak and what was done to resolve it. 
Mrs S arranged for further information to be provided. She says eventually it was agreed that 
her claim could proceed. She was later told that she wasnt covered for the kitchen fittings or 
flooring under her contents policy. Mrs S explained although she was a tenant, the housing 
association had approved the kitchen and flooring she had installed. Lloyds asked for 
evidence from the housing association, which Mrs S provided. 
Mrs S says she received contradicting information throughout her claim. Lloydss claim 
handlers didnt read her claim notes, she was constantly having to chase progress and 
experienced many delays. Mrs Ss claim was passed to a loss adjustor. She says he told her 
the claim shouldnt have been referred to a loss adjustor and she should make a complaint 
for the way her claim had been handled. 
Mrs S says she was made aware at a late stage that her policy had a £5,000 limit, which 
meant cover wasnt provided for all the damage caused to her kitchen as her claim was for 
more than £10,000. She thought this should have been made clear at the outset. 
Lloyds says the letter from the plumber wasnt on letter headed paper, meaning it wasnt 
sufficient to validate the claim. It says a resolution was eventually agreed that it would accept 
the plumber report, which was agreed in late March 2021. It was around this time it asked for 
confirmation from the housing association that Mrs S is responsible for the flooring and 
kitchen units. 
Lloyds says that due to the claim value being more than £10,000 a loss adjustor was 
appointed. A video call was conducted at the start of June 2021. It says Mrs S was made 
aware of the £5,000 policy limit. It was at this time she made a complaint. 
Lloyds upheld Mrs Ss complaint in relation to the service she received. It says its claims 
handler told Mrs S in early December 2020 that, you do have all the relevant cover in 
place. It acknowledges this wasnt accurate and gave Mrs S a misleading expectation of 
what she would receive. It offered an apology but says its settlement payment was 
calculated correctly. £5,000 is the policy limit for the permanent fixtures and fittings. Albeit 
the kitchen table and chairs were covered separately and a further payment of £809.99 was 
offered. 
Mrs S didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint in part. She thought there were unnecessary delays caused by a lack 
of contact by Lloyds. And that Mrs S had to chase it for updates only to be told further 
information was needed or the information provided was inadequate. She thought Lloyds 
should pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience and stress it caused. 
Lloyds accepted our investigators findings, but Mrs S was unhappy that the full cost of the 
damage wasnt covered. She says the cost of the replacement table has also increased and 
would like this considering. She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. Im not adding to the 
award our investigator already set out, which I understand will come as a disappointment. 
But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. I have split the complaint into the two areas 
of concern, which I will discuss below.
Claim
Its for the customer to prove that they have suffered an insured loss. If they can do this, then 
generally the insurer should pay the claim unless it can rely on a policy exclusion not to. In 
Mrs Ss case Lloyds accepts an insured loss occurred due to an escape of water. So, I 
neednt consider this further. 
My remit here is to consider whether Lloyds has treated Mrs S fairly in offering a settlement 
payment for the amount stated. I have read the policy terms to understand what cover is in 
place. Page 25 under Claims Settlement for Sections 6 and 7, (section six relates to 
contents insurance) says:
The maximum amount your insurer will pay in respect of any one claim is: 
-£5,000 for tenants fixture and fittings.
Lloyds is satisfied by the letter Mrs S provided from her housing association that she is 
responsible for the kitchen units and flooring. So, her contents insurance provides cover for 
her fixtures and fittings. But the terms are clear in limiting the payment provided under this 
cover to £5,000.
Mrs S has supplied quotes for the repair work required to replace the flooring and kitchen. 
The work described will cost more than £12,000. I can understand why Mrs S is 
disappointed that the settlement payment is significantly short of this amount. But the terms 
state there is a limit in place for claims involving fixtures and fittings. I think its clear the 
kitchen and flooring falls within the definition of fixtures and fittings and the limit applies 
here.The settlement payment offered by Lloyds includes the replacement cost of the kitchen 
table and chairs damaged by the leak. These items arent reasonably classified as fixtures 
and fittings, so I think it was fair for the cost of replacements to be included in the settlement 
payment under Mrs Ss contents insurance policy.
I sympathise with Mrs S that the settlement payment she has been offered is less than the 
cost of replacing her kitchen and flooring. But I think Lloyds has been fair in offering the 
maximum payment covered by her policy. 
Service 
We asked Lloyds to provide the call recordings of conversations between it and Mrs S 
regarding her claim. I have listened to these calls to understand what was discussed and 
how the claim progressed. 
Mrs S first registered her claim at the beginning of December 2020. She was told to provide 
something from her plumber to confirm where the leak was coming from. Once confirmed 
that the leak was fixed Lloyds said it would send a contractor to have a look at the damage. 
From here it would advise what cover was available. During the first call with Lloyds its 
claim handler told Mrs S she had all the relevant cover in place. 
As it turns out Mrs S didnt have all the relevant cover in place to pay for the damage 
claimed. It was also not made clear what information and in what format information from 
the plumber was required. This led to confusion and delays when Lloyds later refused to 
accept the plumbers letter as proof of the cause of the leak. 
Lloyds says it received the plumbers letter at the beginning of January 2021. It says it 
responded to Mrs S to say this wasnt sufficient. Mrs S says she didnt receive this message 
and contacted Lloyds toward the end of January to chase progress. During this call Mrs S 
explains the situation that the plumber didnt want his employer to know he had done work 
independently. 
In the call Lloydss claim handler agrees that the plumber can call in to provide an 
explanation of what the cause of the leak was and what he did to rectify the problem. Mrs S 
was given a password to give to the plumber, and the claim handler confirmed notes had 
been added to the claim so it would clear why the plumber was calling, and who he was. 
Mrs S called back around two weeks later. The claims handler is abrupt. He explains there 
are no notes to confirm what was agreed with the plumber calling in and says this isnt the 
usual process. Mrs S queried why she was told to arrange for the plumber to call and why 
she was given a password. The claims handlers says he didnt know. After more discussion 
he says Mrs S, can ask the plumber to call in again and provides the claim reference for him 
to quote.
Mrs S called Lloyds again in early March 2021. She was told the plumber was to provide 
certificates to prove his qualifications. Mrs S said she had spoken to the plumber and he 
agreed to provide certificates if he could find them. The claim handler says it was agreed for 
the certificates to be provided. She says if this was not available Mrs S would need to 
arrange for another plumber to provide a report confirming the cause of the leak and the 
repairs carried out to resolve it. Mrs S didnt understand how this would be possible as the 
leak had been fixed some time ago. She queried why no contact had been made before this 
to chase the missing information. The claims handler advised Lloyds was waiting for 
information to be sent in. Around three weeks later Mrs S called Lloyds again. By this time the plumber had sent a 
copy of an identification badge to support that he is a qualified tradesman. Mrs S again 
queried how another plumber was supposed to provide the information Lloyds had 
requested. The claims handler agreed to raise a complaint. She also highlighted the need 
for Mrs S to obtain information from her housing association to show that she was 
responsible for the damaged fixtures and fittings in the kitchen. Mrs S queried why this 
hadnt been identified much earlier. The claims handler says when the claim was set up the 
claims handler must have missed that the policy was for contents cover. 
Mrs S provided the necessary information from her housing association to confirm she is 
responsible for the flooring and kitchen fittings. I have listened to a subsequent call from 
around the end of May 2021. Lloyds contacted Mrs S to tell her the landlord, or owner of her 
property, is responsible for the fixtures and fittings. Mrs S explains she has already provided 
information from her housing association to show that she is responsible. The claims 
handler reviews the information on file whilst on the phone. She changes her mind and 
agrees with Mrs S that the claim should cover her fixtures and fittings. 
Shortly after this a video call was arranged with a loss adjustor. Mrs S says the loss adjustor 
didnt understand why he was asked to look at this claim. But he confirmed the policy limit 
for fixtures and fittings was £5,000. 
Further phone conversations took place in June 2021 where Mrs S queried why she hadnt 
been told much earlier that her policy had a £5,000 limit. Mrs S tells the call handler she has 
received no response to the complaint she made previously. 
In mid-July 2021 Mrs S spoke to Lloyds again, to chase progress on the settlement 
payment. She was told it was waiting on the loss adjustors report from the video call in 
May. Mrs S asked to make a further complaint. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Lloyds handled the claim well. Communication at 
the outset shouldve been clearer regarding what was needed from the plumber. This 
caused delays. Mrs S was given contradictory information several times by different call 
handlers. Communication should also have been clearer on the cover Mrs Ss policy 
provided to ensure her expectations were managed. 
Lloyds failed to contact Mrs S in a timely manner when it didnt receive information it needed 
or when this was inadequate. One call handler was particularly abrupt when responding to 
Mrs Ss queries and concerns. This happened on two separate calls. The call handlers 
didnt always read the information they had on file, which caused further confusion. And Mrs 
S was left to chase for updates to progress her claim. 
In summary I think Lloyds shouldve handled Mrs Ss claim better than it did. This shouldve 
meant it offered a settlement payment far sooner. There were some complications initially 
regarding information from the plumber. But this couldve been resolved more effectively. 
Mrs S has encountered significant delays in her claim being settled. This has 
understandably been a frustrating experience as well as the inconvenience and distress 
caused in dealing with Lloyds over many months. As well as living with the damaged kitchen 
units and flooring. To acknowledge this, I think its fair for Lloyds to pay £250 compensation. 
Finally, Mrs S says the replacement price for her table and chairs has now increased. She 
wants the settlement offer increased because of this. This was dealt with separately from the 
fixtures and fittings cover and so isnt affected by the £5,000 limit. Mrs S should contact 
Lloyds for it to consider this part of her claim further under her policy.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
should:
pay £250 compensation to Mrs S for the inconvenience, frustration and distress 
caused by Lloyds delays and poor claim handling. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman