DRN-3859690
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited held him at fault for an accident 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to change this to a 
non-fault claim and reinstate his no claims bonus.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a collision with another car whilst he was doing a U turn in the road. 
Admiral said he would be held liable because he crossed the path of the third party. Mr M 
was unhappy with this as he said the other driver had accelerated at a traffic light and tried 
to overtake him. He said the third party had caused the collision. Admiral maintained its 
decision, but Mr M remained unhappy. He said CCTV footage would support his version of 
events. And he said hed given Admiral details of someone who had witnessed the incident. 
Our investigator didnt think Admiral needed to do anything differently. He thought Admiral 
had acted reasonably in saying Mr M was at fault. He noted that Admiral had acted quickly to 
ask for the CCTV footage, but it hadnt received a response. And he couldnt see any 
evidence that Mr M had given Admiral any details of a witness. 
Mr M wasnt happy with our investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr M feels frustrated hes been held at fault when hes sure the other driver 
caused the accident. Our Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide 
who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role 
in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to 
settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy? And has it treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to conduct the 
investigation, defence and settlement of his claim on his behalf. Mr M has to follow its advice 
in connection with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third-party 
claim or better to compromise. That said, we expect an insurer to investigate a claim fairly 
and reasonably and consider the evidence available before making its decision on liability.
In this case, Admiral made a decision on who was liable for the collision on the day of the 
incident. Having listened to Mr Ms version of events Admiral said he would be held liable 
because hed crossed the path of the third-party vehicle. As Mr M said he was performing a 
U turn, it said he was responsible for ensuring the way was clear for him to complete the 
manoeuvre. Ive listened to the telephone call Mr M made to Admiral on the day of the 
incident. And on the basis of the information he gave, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to 
reach the decision it did. Mr M accepted hed performed a U turn and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to conclude that it wouldnt be successful in those circumstances if 
the matter went to court. 
But Mr M thinks Admiral should have gathered further evidence. Had it done so, he believes 
it would have supported his view that the third party was liable for the collision and Admiral 
would have changed its decision. Mr M told Admiral the incident took place outside a grocery 
store and there was likely to be CCTV footage. And I can see that Admiral contacted the 
store soon after the incident to ask for any CCTV footage it might have. It gave the time and 
location of the incident, as well as details of the collision and of both vehicles. So, I think 
Admiral acted fairly by asking the grocery store for that information. It could perhaps have 
chased the store after its initial request but even if it had, there was no guarantee the store 
would have kept hold of the footage.
Mr M says he also gave Admiral details of a witness to the collision. Admiral said it doesnt 
have any record of him doing that. And having looked through the file its shared with us, I 
too cannot see any evidence of him giving it those details. The only reference to a witness is 
in a note of a call a few days after the incident when Mr M is recorded as saying he would 
ask around to see if there were any witnesses to the collision.
So, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to make a decision based on the evidence that was 
available. I understand Mr M feels very strongly about this. And I know he believes the third 
party to be totally at fault for what happened. But as Ive explained, it would be for a court of 
law to decide liability. What Ive looked at is whether Admiral reached a reasonable decision 
based on the information it was given. And Im satisfied it did. For that reason, I wont be 
asking Admiral to do anything further in relation to this matter.
For completeness, I note that Mr M has given this service details of someone he says 
witnessed the accident, and our investigator has forwarded those details to Admiral. It will be 
for Admiral to decide what to do with that new information and decide if it changes anything. 
Mr M should follow that up with Admiral if he wants to pursue that matter further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman