DRN-2282814
The complaint
Mr N complains CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly declined claims he made for damage 
to a garage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr N contacted CIS as part of the roof on his garage had collapsed. He 
thought the damage had been caused by subsidence. CIS sent one of its contractors to 
assess it. Having done so, it didnt think subsidence was the cause. It thought the damage 
would have happened over time and this wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr N then told CIS that the damage could have been caused by the council. He said theyd 
recently been out and had cut back a lot of trees and vegetation that had overgrown around 
his property, especially the garage. CIS hired another contractor to review this for Mr N. It 
noted that Mr N was insured against damage caused by falling trees, but it didnt think that 
was the cause of the roof damage. It still maintained the damage had happened over a long 
period of time. So it still didnt agree to cover the claim. CIS did apologise for a delay in 
reviewing Mr Ns documents, and paid £50 compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress 
caused to Mr N.
In December 2019, Mr N contacted CIS again to say his home had been damaged by a 
storm. CIS didnt agree to cover this damage as it didnt think a storm had happened around 
the time Mr N noticed the damage. It said his insurance policy didnt cover bad weather, and 
it hadnt been shown that a storm, as defined by the policy, had taken place.
Unhappy with how CIS handled these claims, Mr N complained to our service.
Our investigator disagreed with CIS about the storm conditions. He thought the wind speeds 
in December 2019 were strong enough to be classed as a storm. But based on the reports 
hed seen, he didnt think the damage was consistent with damage youd typically see as a 
result of a storm. Having considered each of Mr Ns claims, he didnt think CIS had acted 
unfairly in declining them.
Mr N didnt accept this. He sent some videos and photos of the damage for our investigator 
to consider. But as this didnt change his mind, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has sent in a lot of information in support of his complaint. I want to reassure him that I 
have read and considered all of this, and I appreciate the time hes spent putting it together. I 
wont respond to every point hes raised here. Instead my decision will focus on the key 
reasons for my outcome. Having looked at everything, I dont think CIS has acted unfairly in 
not covering the repairs needed to his garage or conservatory. Ill explain why below.
Mr N first thought the damage could have been caused by subsidence. He provided CIS with 
a survey report from when the property had been bought in 2004. This said the property is at 
risk of subsidence given the ground it is built on. CIS report said there was no evidence of 
ground movement that had affected the structure of the building. 
Having looked at CIS report and Mr Ns survey, I dont think CIS acted unreasonably in 
saying the damage hadnt been caused by subsidence. From what Ive seen Mr Ns property 
hasnt suffered any damage from subsidence since the report in 2004. And CIS report 
shows the roof structure has dropped because of significant water damage, rather than the 
garage structure being damaged by ground movement. So Im more persuaded by CIS 
report about the most likely cause of the damage and Im satisfied it declined the claim under 
this section fairly.
Mr Ns policy does cover his property for damage caused by falling trees or branches. He 
says when the council cut down the trees and vegetation next to his property, they caused 
branches to fall onto the garage roof which must have damaged it. The work done by the 
council took place before CIS visited Mr Ns property, so there arent any photos of this in 
any of CIS reports or the commentary. Mr N has provided several hundred pictures to CIS 
and this service. CIS did review the photographs sent in by Mr N, but it didnt change their 
mind on the likely cause of damage to the roof. It maintained the images showed the 
damage would have happened over a period of time rather than as a one-off event.
Having looked through Mr Ns photos, I can see there was significant vegetation growing 
next to the garage and conservatory. Its clear this must have been growing for some time 
based on the height and volume of vegetation. And amongst clearing shrubs, the council 
also cut down a small tree which had grown immediately next to the garage. Mr N has said 
he thinks the branches and vegetation could have been putting pressure on the roof which 
caused the damage. Which I accept is possible. But thats not the type of event that his 
insurance policy covers. It covers a one-off event such as a tree branch falling in a storm.
I also accept its possible that the council could have caused damage to Mr Ns garage in 
cutting these trees down. When CIS attended, I can see from one of its photographs that 
there is a tree branch on the garage roof. But having considered everything, I dont think this 
was the most likely cause of the damage.
CIS reports show that the inside of the roof was in a poor state of repair, with some rotting 
timbers, caused by water damage. CIS expert says this would have happened over a long 
period of time, rather than as a result of a branch falling on it. I dont think its unreasonable 
for CIS to rely on this report. Mr N has since had the roof repaired, but I havent seen any 
report from his roofer which supports Mr Ns claims about how the damage happened. Mr N 
feels that his photographs show that the damage hasnt been caused in the way that CIS 
has said, but having reviewed them, Im not persuaded they how that CIS acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. So having considered all of the evidence I think its more likely that the 
damage happened over a period of time rather than from a tree branch falling on the garage.  Mr Ns final claim was for storm damage, following bad weather in December 2019. He says 
roof tiles became loose, and ripped the felt underneath. CIS didnt think a storm had taken 
place based on the weather reports from the time, so it declined to cover the claim. But it still 
attended Mr Ns property to assess the damage. It couldnt see any damaged roof tiles on 
the main roof of Mr Ns house. Mr N said these had been replaced but were easily 
removable. It did note some water had got into the garage and one of the beams was wet, 
but CIS said there was no storm related damage to repair.
Like our investigator, I disagree with CIS about the weather. I find the wind speeds in mid-
December to have been severe enough to be classed as a storm under the policy. But that 
doesnt mean I think CIS should have done anything more. Because I cant see that the 
storm caused any damage to the main roof. 
In carrying out its investigation, CIS contractor didnt get on the roof; he took photographs 
with a camera on a pole. Mr N is unhappy that a proper inspection didnt take place, 
including removing roof tiles. But I dont think CIS acted unfairly in not getting on the roof. 
From CIS photos, there arent any misplaced roof tiles. And it thought that ripped felt 
wouldnt be likely to be as a result of a storm, but more of a wear and tear issue with the felt. 
In the absence of any other evidence from Mr N, such as from the roofer who he says 
reattached the tiles, I dont think CIS reached an unreasonable decision on this. 
I realise this claim was ongoing for a number of months and CIS has declined Mr Ns claims 
under various sections of the policy. But I find in each instance, CIS did what it could to 
support Mr N in proving his claim by attending his property on several occasions and 
reviewing the evidence he provided. There have been errors, for example CIS didnt turn up 
for an appointment on the day it said it would, and it did cause a delay in reviewing some 
documents. But it has already recognised these and offered a total of £100 compensation, 
which I think is fair to reflect the minor delays these errors caused.
Mr N did ask whether the claim could be considered under the accidental damage section of 
his policy. But from what Ive seen he didnt have this cover in place when the damage 
happened. So its right that CIS didnt consider it under this section.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask CIS Insurance Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman