DRN-3929180
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy TSB Bank plc delayed his application for a personal loan as a result of 
incorrect information they held about him.
What happened
On 25 March 2022, Mr S says he went to apply for a personal loan with TSB online.
However, despite repeated attempts to complete the application, Mr S says it was refused.
Instead, Mr S was prompted to call TSB to set up a telephone appointment for the loan
which he says was initially cancelled and subsequently rearranged for the following day. Mr
S says the phone appointment lasted two hours, even though he was told it wouldnt last
more than an hour and that TSBs records were incorrectly recording the length of time hed
lived at his current address for  which was impacting the loan application being successful.
Having repeatedly clarified the correct information, the loan was eventually approved.
Mr S says while theres not been any direct financial impact or loss, it shouldnt have taken
the amount of time it did for the loan to be approved, given hes been a TSB customer for
over 50 years and has previously taken out products with them without any issue. Mr S says
he hasnt been given an explanation from TSB and has asked for TSB to clarify why they
held incorrect information about the length of time he has lived at his current address for. Mr
S has also said this error led to him having to commit so much of his time to be able to get
an explanation from TSB.
TSB recognised Mr S was caused inconvenience in booking a successful telephone
appointment with them and also recognised the inconvenience caused as a result of the first
appointment being cancelled. So, they apologised and paid him £25 compensation in
recognition of this. TSB say its with regret that when they were attempting to submit Mr S
loan application, a business error kept appearing due to incorrect dates being recorded on
their system against his current address. While TSB were able to rectify the issue, they say it
took around two hours to finalise the application  the loan was then successfully taken out
on the same day on 29 March 2022.
Our Investigator looked into Mr S concerns. In summary, he said TSB werent able to
provide a reason as to why they held incorrect information about the time Mr S lived in his
current address for. But he recognised Mr S was caused inconvenience by having to stay on
the phone for two hours until the issue was fixed. Our Investigator said the overall
experience Mr S went through wasnt good and because of this, he recommended TSB pay
Mr S a further £50 compensation  so £75 in total.
TSB agreed to our Investigators view. But Mr S didnt. In summary, he said he doesnt
accept TSB have acted professionally or responded appropriately. Mr S also said that he
didnt raise a complaint in order to attain any form of financial recompense, therefore, our
Investigators recommendation of a further £50 doesnt address the matter. And that hes
never had to have a telephone appointment in any of the other products he has taken out
with TSB. Mr S said when he called TSB on the day the online application wasnt successful,
the advisor wasnt able to provide reasons as to why it was unsuccessful and instead, told
him he had to set up a telephone appointment which could last up to one hour. Mr S also
reiterated the first appointment was cancelled which was inconvenient. Mr S said TSB
havent engaged with him in any way and their lack of response about his complaint has
frustrated him. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
TSB assume Mr S was prompted to call them to carry out the loan application via phone due
to their error of having Mr S has been residing at his current address since 1988  which
was incorrect.
Mr S has said hes not been asked to call TSB before when taking out products, so doesnt
understand why he had to do so with this loan. TSB havent been able to provide us with
evidence of the instruction Mr S received where he was asked to call them following the
unsuccessful online application for the loan. But TSB have said that where they need to
speak to a customer about their application, theyll often arrange an appointment at one of
their branches or by telephone  which seems to be what happened in Mr S case. Mr S
hasnt said previous applications for products were unsuccessful, so it seems likely the
reason he was asked to call was because of the incorrect information. I dont think it was
unreasonable of TSB to have asked Mr S to call, given the application had been
unsuccessful. But I do appreciate that the instruction to call was likely due to incorrect
information TSB held which was inconvenient for Mr S especially as hes been a
longstanding customer of TSB.
Mr S has said he wants an explanation from TSB as to why they held the incorrect
information about the length of time hes been at his current address for, which I dont find to
be unreasonable. TSB have said they think its likely the issue of the incorrect information
was caused because of their banking systems being updated in April 2018, but they cant
say for certain. Having listened to the call recording of Mr S telephone appointment, the
advisor explained to Mr S at the start of the call that he could see Mr S attempted to apply
for the loan three times but was unsuccessful and that he needed to go through Mr S
income and expenditure for the loan with him  which could be another reason why Mr S
was prompted to call in this instance. In any case, I think its disappointing TSB havent been
able to provide us with a more conclusive explanation, I appreciate this is what Mr S wants.
But in the absence of any other information, Ive got no reason to not rely on the explanation
TSB have given as it does seem plausible.
TSB have provided a screenshot showing the date Mr S has been residing at his current
address to be from 2005, so it seems the information has since been corrected.
Mr S has also complained about the poor service he received from TSB  in particular, Mr S
says TSB havent engaged with him, he had to rearrange the telephone appointment he
originally had booked on 28 March 2022 to 29 March 2022 and that he was told the
appointment could last up to one hour, when in fact, it took around two hours. I can
appreciate the inconvenience caused to Mr S especially as he had to spend double the
amount of time he was expecting to be on the call to be able to complete the loan
application. Additionally, during the call, the advisor wasnt able to identify the reason for the
loan application not going through which resulted in the call being prolonged. When the
advisor said to Mr S that the system showed him residing at his current address since 1988,
Mr S repeatedly told the advisor that this was wrong and that he has lived at his current
address since 2005 and not since 1988. The advisor eventually rectifies this and explains
the issue stopping the loan application going through was due to the incorrect address
dates. But even then, I can appreciate this would have caused Mr S frustration.
Mr S has said unless banks and institutions are held to account, rather than trying to resolve
things by simply making an offer of compensation, then theyll keep repeating themselves.
I can appreciate Mr S frustrations but our role isnt to punish a business for their mistake orstandard of service. Rather, it is the role of this service to ensure that a fair and reasonable
outcome is reached, when considering the circumstances of the dispute. Mr S says he didnt
raise a complaint for any financial recompense. But if a business has made a mistake or
treated a customer unfairly, we have the power to tell a business to put things right. And
there are a number of things we can tell a business to do such as paying compensation to
recognise the impact of what went wrong, which I think is fair in the circumstances of this
complaint.
Overall, in addition to the inconvenience caused to Mr S as a result of the incorrect
information given about the telephone appointment which TSB paid him £25 compensation
for, I think Mr S was further inconvenienced  as TSB have acknowledged they held
incorrect information about the length of time Mr S has resided at his current address due to
a system update that happened in April 2018, which I think came as a surprise to Mr S.
Also, I think it was inconvenient and frustrating for Mr S to be on the phone for an hour
longer than he was told the telephone appointment would last. With this in mind, I agree with
our Investigator and I currently think TSB should pay Mr S a further £50 compensation in
recognition of the inconvenience and frustration caused.
TSB responded and said they agree with my provisional decision. Mr S also responded and 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. Mr S asked if the matter required him to 
confirm that hes now satisfied with the decision and our Investigator responded to say Mr S 
would be required to confirm if he agreed with my provisional decision. But I couldnt see a 
response to our Investigators email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any other further comments or information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. For clarity, I think TSB should pay Mr S a 
further £50 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience and frustration caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr S a further £50 compensation, 
bringing the total compensation to £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman