DRN-3681327
The complaint
Mr P, a director of P, complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund a disputed transaction 
made without Ps consent.  
What happened
Mr P is the sole director of P. 
Mr P booked an event at a restaurant, Ill call B, on 11 December 2021. Due to the 
coronavirus pandemic Mr P became concerned and phoned to cancel the booking on 
9 December 2021. 
On contacting B Mr P asked whether or not P would be charged the cost of the booking if it 
was cancelled on 9 December 2021  and B informed him that no funds would be taken. So 
Mr P decided to cancel. Later the same day Mr P emailed B to confirm the cancellation and 
no funds would be taken  but B explained theyd made an error and any cancellations, 
without charge, need to me made 72 hours before the event date. 
On 10 December 2021 P was charged just over £3,000. 
Mr P contacted Barclays about the charge. He said he hadnt authorised the payment  and 
as B informed him they wouldnt take payment this was a verbal contract. Barclays 
considered Ps claim, but explained Mr P had authorised the payment. And they couldnt 
raise a chargeback because Mr P breached the terms and conditions of the booking by 
cancelling less than 72 hours before the event. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Ps complaint  but they didnt uphold it. In summary they said that 
it was fair for Barclays to refuse to raise a chargeback considering P had cancelled with less 
than 72 hours notice. And although B accepted theyd made an error, theyd been clear in 
explaining this to Mr P. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion. In response he said:
He cancelled the event in good faith
B said the money wouldnt be taken, so it was their fault
As Mr P didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly consider whether I think P authorised the payment.  
I understand this will disappoint Mr P, but Im satisfied that P authorised the payment  I say 
this because Mr P provided Ps card details to B and agreed to the terms and conditions of 
the payment. Which state the payment will be taken if cancellation isnt carried out more than 
72 hours prior to the event. 
Ive moved on to consider whether Barclays should have raised a chargeback for P. A 
chargeback isnt a consumer right, and Barclays arent under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback if theres little chance of success. Im afraid in this instance Im satisfied this is 
the case. I say this because although B accept they gave Mr P the incorrect advice, in 
saying his card wouldnt be charged, they quickly corrected this. And most importantly the 
terms and conditions of the account clearly state to be entitled to a refund any cancellation 
needs to be actioned 72 hours prior to the event. Which didnt happen in Ps case.
I appreciate that it was worrying time for Mr P, and he only cancelled the event due to fears 
over the safety of guests due to the pandemic. Although I empathise with Mr P this doesnt 
change the contract he signed up to with B. It follows, for the reasons Ive outlined above I 
cant say Barclays acted unfairly or need to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman