DRN-3709072
The complaint
Mr B has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for storm damage 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted QIC to report storm damage to the roof and chimney and said water had 
leaked into the loft. QIC asked Mr B to send photos of the damage. Several weeks later, QIC 
also sent a surveyor, by which time Mr B had carried out repairs. QIC then contacted Mr B 
and declined the claim because it said the images he had sent werent clear enough, so it 
didnt have enough evidence to validate the claim.
When Mr B complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr B 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was more 
persuaded by Mr Bs evidence about the circumstances of the damage. He said QIC should 
reimburse Mr B for the cost of repairing the damage caused by the storm.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions around the time of the damage. However, 
Ive checked the weather conditions and can see there were windspeeds of up to 77mph 
around that time in the local area, which I note are hurricane force winds. I also think a storm 
could damage a roof and chimney. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. A key issue 
here though is that it was difficult for QIC to validate the claim. QIC has said this was down 
to the actions of Mr B. Mr B disagreed with this and said the problem was with how QIC tried 
to validate the claim.
Ive listened to the phone call where QIC told Mr B that it was declining the claim. It said it 
couldnt validate what happened because the images Mr B had provided werent clear 
enough. It also said that by the time a surveyor visited the repairs had been carried out, so 
the damage couldnt be assessed. It said policyholders would normally be asked to provide 
images taken by the builder if works were carried out. Mr B said he had been told to carry 
out the repairs and there had been a significant delay before the surveyor had visited.
Ive also listened to a phone call between QIC and Mr B shortly after Mr B first registered the 
claim. In this phone call, Mr B was asked to provide photos of the areas of damage. He was 
told to carry out temporary or permanent repairs. QIC also confirmed to this service that it 
received photos of the damage shortly after it requested them and that it viewed them the 
same day, but then waited for the surveyor to visit the property to assess the damage 
directly in person. Im aware that the surveyor visited about six weeks later, by which time 
repairs had been carried out. QIC then told Mr B hed breached a condition of the policy by 
carrying out permanent repairs.
In my view, QIC could have checked the quality of the images much earlier than it did. I also 
havent seen any evidence Mr B was asked to provide photos taken by a builder. When Mr B 
first reported the claim he was also told he could carry out a permanent repair. So, based on 
what Ive seen, Mr B acted in line with what he was advised to do by QIC. As a result, I dont 
think its fair for QIC to decline the claim based on the quality of the photos or that he carried 
out the work.
QIC has also since said to this service that it thinks there was a problem with the mortar and 
referred to online images to support this. But, I dont think the historic images clearly show 
this was the case. This also wasnt why it declined the claim and I dont think QIC can now 
fairly rely on this to do so. 
As a result, I uphold this complaint and require QIC to reimburse Mr B for the cost of 
repairing the damage he claimed for as a result of the storm.
Putting things right
QIC should reimburse Mr B for the cost of repairing the damage he claimed for as a result of 
the storm.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to reimburse Mr B for the cost of repairing the damage he claimed for as a 
result of the storm, subject to him providing evidence of this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman