DRN-2858204
The complaint
Miss C complains that TSB Bank plc have closed her account and withheld the funds in it. 
Shes asked that these funds be returned to her.
What happened
Miss C opened a savings account with TSB in 2018, but the account was not used at first.
Beginning in November 2019 the account received a number of credits from third parties. In 
total there were seven transactions in from five people, totalling £8,265.
Miss C applied to convert her savings account in to a current account. But TSB declined the 
application, and then restricted use of the savings account while they carried out a review. 
They asked Miss C what the transactions were for. She told them that several of them were 
money owed to her parents; one was for money owed to her by a colleague; and two were 
Christmas presents for her and her brothers from her cousin.
TSB asked for proof that Miss C was entitled to the funds she received. Miss C supplied 
bank statements for the sending accounts. These showed the sending accounts had all 
recently received funds from HMRC. TSB werent convinced these showed Miss C was 
entitled to the funds, so took the decision to close her account and withhold the money.
Miss C didnt think this was fair, so raised a complaint with TSB. The bank felt they were 
entitled to ask their customers for more information on how theyre using their accounts. 
They said that under the terms of Miss Cs account they could close her account when they 
had concerns about the activity. TSB said if Miss C could provide proof of entitlement that 
their fraud department could accept, they could release the funds.
Unhappy with this answer Miss C referred the complaint to our service. She felt the money in 
the account should be released to her. One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He 
asked Miss C what the payments were for, and she told him they were all for helping the 
sender make a claim on HMRCs self-assessment online. She also provided further 
statements and letters for the investigator to consider.
Our investigator didnt think TSB Had done anything wrong. He thought that under the terms 
of the account TSB were allowed to restrict and close the account, and in the circumstances 
were right to do so. He also didnt think TSB had been unfair in retaining the money in the 
account, as Miss C hadnt demonstrated that she was entitled to the funds. He didnt ask 
TSB to do anything further.
Miss C didnt agree  she accepted she only had evidence available for three of the five 
senders, but felt she had provided enough to show she was entitled to those payments. She 
also provided some text messages from the senders that she felt demonstrated she was 
entitled to the funds.
This didnt change the investigators mind, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I decided TSB need to do anything further. I appreciate Miss C will find this 
disappointing, but Ill explain why.
Account restriction and closure
TSB has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review 
accounts and the activity taking place on them, particularly if something unusual or outside 
the usual operation of the account happens. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the 
accounts being blocked and closed. If TSB dont do this, they could risk serious sanction. 
Taking this into account, Im satisfied TSB were within their rights to review Miss Cs account 
and that they were entitled to block it while they carried out that review because they had 
concerns about the account activity. Considering the account hadnt been used until it 
received several large credits, I think these concerns were reasonable. This is in line with 
TSBs legal and regulatory obligations and in line with the account terms and conditions.
TSB have the discretion to close Miss Cs account. But they still need to apply the correct 
terms. Ive considered the terms which permit TSB to close the account immediately, and I 
find TSB applied them reasonably.
Withholding of the funds
Ive considered Miss Cs main complaint point that TSB are still withholding the funds paid in 
to her savings account. I note that shes said that TSB had previously asked for statements 
from the senders and a letter from HMRC, and she feels shes provided this. Ive also 
considered the evidence Miss Cs sent us, such as the statements and the WhatsApp 
messages between her and the senders. But having done so, I dont think this enough to 
demonstrate Miss C is entitled to the money in the account.
What Miss C has told us the payments were for  helping with self-assessments  is 
different from what she told TSB originally. Her story hasnt been consistent. If Miss C was 
expecting legitimate payments for helping out with self-assessments, I fail to understand why 
she gave TSB a very different version of events. So, I find this weighs against the credibility 
of what she has told us.
Having considered the evidence provided by Miss C, TSB didnt feel this was sufficient to 
show she was entitled to the funds. I appreciate Miss C will be frustrated, as she feels shes 
provided everything she had available. But based on what Ive seen, I can understand why 
TSB remain unsatisfied.
None of the information provided verifies what Miss C says payments were for, or why this 
money belonged to her. Ive considered the text messages provided, and again none of 
them show why she was sent the money. There are discussions about payments from 
HMRC, but nothing about why the money would then be owed to Miss C. One message 
suggests the payments may be for building work, which isnt consistent with what Miss C has 
told us. But in any case, the messages dont support Miss Cs story.Miss C has mentioned she was told by TSB that theyd return the money to the sending 
accounts. I havent seen anything that suggests this was the case, but in any event this 
would be an issue for the senders to raise with their own banks.
In summary, Im satisfied TSB have acted fairly and reasonably in closing Miss Cs accounts 
and retaining the funds. Because of this Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Ombudsman