DRN-2344257
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2003, a premium car manufacturer made an executive saloon of a high specification. Mr P 
acquired that vehicle in 2012 (and applied a cherished number plate). He has described the 
car as a prized possession and described himself as an enthusiast. He spent time and 
money restoring the car.
Mr P had the car insured on a policy under which UKI was responsible for dealing with 
claims. The policy covered the vehicle up to its market value (before the damage or loss 
claimed for).
In August 2019, Mr Ps vehicle was damaged in an incident involving a third party. UKI said it 
was beyond economic repair - a total loss.
After an initial incorrect valuation, UKI made a valuation of £2,790.00. In early September 
2019, UKI made a payment as follows:
valuation £2,790.00
less excess £   250.00
less salvage £   139.00
payment £2,401.00
Mr P complained to UKI that it hadnt treated him fairly. Mr P bought another car and put it 
on the policy. He brought his complaint to us in November 2019. He kept the damaged car 
until he disposed of it. The third party accepted liability and Mr P received a refund of the 
excess.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
UKI had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His car was manufactured with a very high specification.
He has sent us an invoice showing work done to the car in 2017.
His car had become collectible. He told UKI this when taking out the policy. UKI 
shouldve declined the insurance and said that he needed a specialist insurer.
He has sent us photographs of the car at car shows in July 2019.
The wheels alone would cost £5,000.00 to replace. 
The third party crashed into him. The third party should be putting him back in the 
same position as prior to the accident.
UKI didnt get an assessor to inspect his car. UKI have not even seen a photo of the 
damaged car.
UKI would not even allow him to reject an offer and negotiate a settlement with him. It 
just made the payment against his will.
The trade guides do not take into account the current climate and what things go for 
in the real world.
Poor examples of these cars are selling for over £5,000.00 all day long. 
He is not a trader and will not accept a trade value. 
He has sent us links to advertisements for cars like his.
He purchased a similar vehicle as a replacement. That cost £10,000 to buy and more to 
fix things which needed doing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im dealing with a complaint against UKI. I cant comment on any complaint Mr P has against 
the third party.
Our approach to complaints about the valuation of vehicles is explained on our website. It 
applies in the same way to policyholders who have been at fault in an accident as it does to 
those who havent been at fault.
We expect an insurance company to note correctly the details of the vehicle including make, 
model, specification, year, recorded mileage and condition. We expect an insurance 
company to use the trade guides in valuing the vehicle.
We accept that the trade guides provide good evidence of the prices at which cars are likely 
to change hands. To be clear the trade guides contain retail selling prices which we expect 
an insurance company to use rather than any trade price.
We consider all relevant evidence. But advertisements for the sale of vehicles contain asking 
prices which may be higher than the price on a transaction.
I accept that Mr Ps vehicle was one of a limited edition, only available for the first half of 
2003. And Mr Ps had a particularly high specification of options.
Ive seen the invoice for about £7,000.00 for a full re-spray and replacement of front 
suspension in May 2017 (when the mileage was recoded as about 128,000). Ive also seen 
photographs of the vehicle in concourse condition with other similar vehicles. 
I dont agree that UKI shouldve said that its policy was unsuitable for Mr P and his vehicle.After the accident, UKI decided the car was a total loss. After the initial valuation based on 
an estate version, a senior valuer assessed the pre- accident value at £2,790.00. Mr P says 
this was without a physical inspection or photographs of the damaged car. But in the context 
of the age of the car and the damage Mr P had reported, I dont find that unreasonable.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr P has seen online. And Ive noted what hes said about his 
replacement car. 
But I place more weight on the trade guides. For a vehicle like his in August 2019, the trade 
guides contain the following figures:
Glass £2,790.00
Caps £2,591.00
Cazana £2,704.00 
UKIs valuation was the highest of these figures. So Im satisfied that UKIs valuation was fair 
and reasonable.
When the policyholder doesnt agree the valuation, I would expect UKI to make payment on 
an interim basis. So I dont find that UKI treated Mr P unfairly by making its payment directly 
into Mr Ps account.
Overall I dont consider that UKI treated Mr P unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman