DRN-3337597
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs D complain about delays caused by Melton Mowbray Building Society trading 
as The Melton Building Society when they applied for a buy to let mortgage. They say this 
led to their purchase falling through. Mr B and Mrs D ask that The Melton Building Society 
(which Ill refer to as the Society) compensates them for the costs related to the purchase.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs D applied to the Society for a buy to let mortgage in October 2020. They say 
there were delays throughout. It was two months before the valuation was booked. They 
received a mortgage offer in early February 2021, which was incorrect, and a corrected one 
two weeks later. There was then an issue with the property that they wanted to check the 
Society was happy about. While they were waiting for a response, the vendors pulled out of 
the sale. Mr B and Mrs D say this was because of the delays.
Our investigator said the Society had caused delays and its service was poor. She said it 
should pay compensation of £300 (which the Society agreed to do). The investigator didnt 
recommend that the Society pay all of Mr B and Mrs Ds costs as she wasnt certain the 
delays were the only reason the purchase fell through. 
Mr B and Mrs D didnt agree. Mrs D said theyd provided evidence that the delays were the 
reason their purchase didnt proceed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigators view, Mrs D said the complaint should be determined based 
purely on facts and evidence provided by myself of what actually happened, rather than 
pure speculation. I should say that this service is neutral and we consider comments and 
evidence from both parties. I should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr B and Mrs D applied to the Society for a buy to let mortgage in October 2020. They paid 
the application fee and valuation fee on 21 October 2020. The Society issued a mortgage 
offer on 4 February 2021, although this contained an error and was re-issued on 22 
February 2021. The overall time taken to issue a correct mortgage offer was about four 
months. An issue with the property then came to light which the solicitor raised with the 
Society. Mr B and Mrs D told the Society at the end of February 2021 that the vendors had 
pulled out of the sale.
While this timeframe was longer than usual for a mortgage application, having looked at the 
evidence I dont think this was entirely due to errors by the Society.  
Ive listened to recordings of calls with Mrs D and the Society. In October 2020 Mrs D said 
she didnt want to pay for a valuation until the Society had agreed to lend. The Society said it 
wouldnt instruct the valuation until it had assessed the application. It said once the 
application fee was paid the application would be passed to an assessor. It said the 
assessor would ask for the documents it needed. Mrs D asked how long the assessment 
would take and the Society said this would depend on the application and the assessor 
would be better placed to answer this question.
There were some issues with certifying identification documents as Mrs D had to isolate. 
There was a change in the property Mrs D and Mr B intended to buy in November 2020. 
Mrs D says it took two weeks after the Society was told about this to say they needed to 
complete a form. The Societys assessor said this might have been a breakdown in 
communications between the Society and Mr B and Mrs Ds broker.
The Society instructed a valuation on 2 December 2021. It chased the valuers and noted on 
14 December 2020 that a valuation appointment was booked for 4 January 2021. The 
Societys notes suggest the delay in booking the valuation was because the valuer had 
difficulty reaching the vendors agent to book the appointment. While Mr B and Mrs D would 
have preferred the valuation to take place sooner, I dont think its fair to say that the Society 
delayed instructing the valuation.
The valuation was lower than expected and the Society reduced the amount it would lend. 
Mr B and Mrs Ds broker told the Society that Mr B and Mrs D were trying to renegotiate the 
purchase price. On 18 January 2021 the broker confirmed Mr B and Mrs Ds purchase would 
continue at the agreed price and with the lower loan amount. Mrs D says this shouldnt have 
caused a delay as they realised very quickly that the difference between the purchase price 
and valuation was because the property was sold with furniture and they were happy to pay 
for this. However, given the lower valuation and the reduction in the amount the Society 
would lend, I think it was fair for the Society to wait for the broker to confirm that Mrs D and 
Mr B would proceed on this basis. 
A mortgage offer was issued on 4 February 2021. On 10 February 2021 Mr B and Mrs Ds 
solicitors contacted the Society saying they hadnt received it. The Societys records show 
that Mr B and Mrs D had instructed different solicitors from the firm of solicitors named in the 
mortgage application. Mrs D says they didnt appoint solicitors until 12 November 2020. 
Either way, I havent seen evidence that the Society was given correct details for Mr B and 
Mrs Ds solicitor before it issued the mortgage offer. The Society issued an amended 
mortgage offer on 22 February 2021.
On 24 February 2021 the solicitor sent an email to the Society as a search had revealed 
information about the property that they thought the Society should be aware of. The Society 
checked this with the valuer who confirmed on 26 February 2021 it didnt change the 
valuation. However, Mrs D told the Society on 27 February 2021 that the vendors had pulled 
out of the sale. So even if the Society had dealt with this issue more promptly it seems 
unlikely the mortgage would have completed before the vendors pulled out. 
The Society called Mrs D on 3 March 2021. It said it could accelerate completion if the 
vendor agreed to go ahead. 
I think there were times when the Society could have moved things along more quickly. But 
some of the delays  almost five weeks for the valuation to take place after it was instructed, 
two weeks for Mr B and Mrs D to confirm the basis on which theyd proceed after the 
valuation was lower than expected, over a week due to the change of solicitors and the issue 
with the property which came to light after the mortgage offer  were outside its control. This 
accounted for more than half of the four-month timeframe between the application and the vendors pulling out the sale. 
I must also fairly take into account that this was a busy period for mortgage lenders. The 
Society says it had higher than normal levels of applications and staffing issues due to the 
pandemic.
It's difficult to know for sure why the vendors pulled out of the sale. I can understand if the 
vendors were frustrated with the time the matter had taken. However, by early March 2021 a 
mortgage offer was in place and the Society offered to expedite completion (provided it 
received the certificate of title from the solicitor). So the mortgage process wouldnt have 
stopped the vendors completing the sale within the next few days if theyd wanted to. Only 
the vendors know why they didnt proceed with the sale at that time.
But even if I could fairly find that the long timescale was the reason the vendors pulled out of 
the sale, I dont think it would be fair to say the Society was responsible for this. As Ive said, 
I dont think the Society was responsible for all, or even most, of the delays.
Putting things right
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require the Society to refund all of Mr B and Mrs Ds 
costs. These were costs they incurred in the usual process of buying a property and I dont 
think the Society was responsible for the vendors pulling out of the sale. 
While Mrs D and Mr B found the application process stressful, I have to take into account 
that property purchases are often stressful and some of the issues here (such as the wait for 
the valuation to take place) werent due to errors by the Society. And this was a buy to let 
property  a business investment. That said, there were times when I think the Society could 
have moved things on more quickly  for instance it could have sent a revised mortgage 
offer out more quickly after it was told about the change of solicitors. The Society accepts 
that high numbers of applications affected its processing times. I think for the additional 
upset this caused £300 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Melton Mowbray Building Society to pay 
£300 to Mr B and Mrs D (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman