DRN-2324259
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a short trade in Wizz Air Holding Plc (the trade) which he opened 
on 13 March 2020 (at the price of 2652) in his account with IG Markets Limited (IG). He 
says he tried to close the trade on 16 March 2020 (the day) and that IG is responsible for 
the following:
Failure to apply a limit order he set at the price of 1510 despite the market price 
falling below this level on the day. [issue 1]
Denying him the opportunity to close the trade manually on the day when he tried to 
do so. [issue 2]
The poor customer service he experienced in the course of pursuing his complaint. 
[issue 3]
IG disputes the complaint, in terms of issues 1 and 2.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into these issues and, in the main, she said:
The complaint should not be upheld.
Issue 3 is mainly about Mr Ws experience of a lack of continuity between the IG 
officials he engaged with in the complaint handling process and their lack of 
awareness of how his complaint was being handled. IG acknowledges that its service 
in this respect fell below the expected standards and it has offered Mr W £100 for the 
trouble and upset this caused. This is a reasonable offer that falls in line with this 
services guidelines.
With regards to issue 1, there is evidence that IGs platform did reflect the market 
price drop (for the trade) to 1500  which Mr W had previously doubted  and that no 
limit order was executed because none existed at the time of the relevant price drop; 
trade summary evidence from the day shows that the drop happened before 08:20; 
account activity evidence shows that Mr W did not place his order until 08:36:15; and 
there is no evidence of any problems with the platform at the time.
With regards to issue 2, Mr W attempted to close the trade manually through the 
platform before the market opened on the day; at the time, the market was in auction 
(in order to determine an opening market price) and IG has explained that for this 
reason, and because the spreads are very wide during the auctions, orders cannot 
be placed through the platform, they have to be placed by telephone; there is 
evidence of the notice Mr W would have seen on the platform telling him that the 
market was closed at the time; and there is evidence of provisions in the terms 
agreed for Mr Ws account confirming that IG does not offer platform trading during 
market auctions and that it is not oblige to offer quotes or deal orders outside market 
hours.
Mr W did not accept this outcome or IGs offer for issue 3. He took the view that this service 
should do more to query and address IGs service deficiencies. He also retained his 
argument that IG intentionally defrauded him of profit he would have made, if the trade was 
closed at 1510, by preventing him from closing it at the relevant time. The matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider that the investigators findings on issues 1 and 2 are wholly 
supported by available evidence; I endorse those findings, incorporate them into this 
decision and conclude that Mr Ws complaint about issues 1 and 2 are not upheld. I do not 
have anything new to add to the findings, however I have verified the evidence related to 
them and can summarise as follows:
I have seen the screenshot evidence, from the London Stock Exchange, Mr W 
presented. It is a candlestick chart that shows the price for the trade fell to around 
1500 on the day; however, this fact is not in dispute.
I have also seen platform screenshot evidence that shows the price drop to 1500 
being reflected in the auction prices between 08:18 and 08:19 on the day.
I have verified the account activity evidence that was shared with us and, as the 
investigator said, it shows that Mr Ws limit order (for the price of 1510) was not 
placed until 08:36:15 on the day and that he then placed another limit order (for the 
price of 1530) at 08:38:11. Both happened more than 15 minutes after the price drop. 
Thereafter the trade closed on, it appears, a market order at the price of 2193 the 
following day (17 March) at 10:13:34. Price information for the trade shows that the 
price level was around 2000 by 08:30 on the day and it did not go below that 
between then and the end of the market day.
I have also verified the specific terms applicable to Mr Ws account which confirm 
that IGs platform does not offer trading during pre-market auctions and that it was 
not obliged to offer price quotes or to deal orders outside market hours. Furthermore, 
I have seen the screenshot evidence that shows a symbol (a red hammer) next to the 
trades instrument name which signifies an auction and that shows a pop-up notice 
which says the market is not open for trading. On balance, I am persuaded that this 
is the screen Mr W would have seen when he attempted to close the trade manually 
on the day.
Considering the above, the conclusion that issue 1 (alleged failure to apply the 1510 limit 
order) and issue 2 (inability to close the trade manually through the platform) are not upheld 
is supported by evidence.
The basis for issue 3 is not in dispute  IG concedes a service deficiency  but the 
compensation (for trouble and upset) arising from it is in dispute and Mr W has asked for 
more, beyond compensation, to be done. 
In this respect, I agree with the investigator that IGs £100 offer is a reasonable form of 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr W was caused. I can appreciate the frustration he 
would have experienced in terms of having to start again each time he engaged with 
someone new in the complaints handling process. I note that IG expressed the same 
sentiments in its complaint decision letter, alongside its apology for his experience. £100 
fairly addresses the distress and inconvenience he would have been caused by this and it is 
broadly consistent with awards this service has made in comparable cases. I am not 
persuaded that IG should pay more.We are not able to accept Mr Ws invitation to probe IGs complaints handling process 
further and/or to appraise how any issues within it should be addressed. It is not this 
services role to define a firms internal processes and we are not the industry regulator.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman