DRN-4321323
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) cant record 
her surname properly and this has caused problems, including delays every time she opens 
a new account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mrs V has had a banking relationship with Tesco Bank since 2009. In 2011, when it 
ended its relationship with a high street bank and became a bank in its own right, 
Tesco Bank changed its operating system. The new system allows surnames of not 
more than 20 characters to be entered. Mrs Vs surname consists of two names which 
are longer than 20 characters, so the bank chose to store only the second part of her 
surname. Mrs V says this has caused problems and delays, specifically when she 
opened new savings accounts in 2019, 2021 and 2022.
Tesco Bank has awarded £50 compensation to recognise that two of Mrs Vs accounts 
took longer than usual to open. And £150 compensation by way of an apology for 
sending a final response letter, which was intended for Mrs V, to someone else. But 
Mrs V remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Tesco Bank should pay an additional £200 
compensation given how many times the limitations with the banks systems and Mrs Vs 
surname had unreasonably impacted her. Mrs V accepted this, but Tesco Bank did not. 
So the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons. 
The bank says the reason it has elected to have a 20-character limit for surnames is 
because this is the maximum that can be embossed on its credit cards. Ive seen nothing 
which suggests Mrs V has ever held a credit card with Tesco Bank. But I assume the bank   
uses one operating system for all of the products it offers  so that would include the savings 
accounts that Mrs V has held over the years, as well as credit card accounts held by other 
customers,
In the circumstances, I cant fairly tell Tesco Bank it ought to expand the character limit and I 
dont think having such a limit amounts to discrimination in the way Mrs V seems to have 
suggested. But I do appreciate her concern that the bank held her full surname at the point 
when their relationship began and the problems shes experienced since then only started 
when (and because) Tesco Bank changed its operating system in 2009 and failed to record 
her full surname.   
It appears the issue with Mrs Vs surname means that the standard checks which are 
performed at account opening end up taking between one and three weeks, instead of the 
usual 48 to 72 hours. And Mrs V has sometimes had to provide additional documentation to 
prove her identity when the bank ought to have held this information already, given what it 
knew when the relationship started in 2009.
I think Tesco Bank ought to have foreseen that recording only the second half of Mrs Vs 
surname would likely cause identification problems. Accordingly, it ought to have put in place 
a workaround, back in 2011, to address its systems limitations so that Mrs V could continue 
to operate her account, and open new ones, in the same way that any other customer would. 
This might, for example, have included recording the first part of her surname in the middle 
name filed on its system.
Mrs V says shes now closed all of her accounts with Tesco Bank because of the frustration 
its caused her over the years. So were dealing with an historic and finite issue now.
In all the circumstances of the complaint, I think an additional award of £200 (when 
combined with the compensation already paid) is fair and reasonable to recognise the 
ongoing inconvenience and frustration Mrs V has been caused over the years.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should pay a 
further £200 compensation to Mrs V. It should do so within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mrs V accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman