DRN-3936585
The complaint
Mr F complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd (James Hay) failed to confirm 
that it had opened a Selftrade account for him. As a result of the delay in confirming that the 
account had been opened, Mr F says he suffered a financial loss as he was unable to trade 
promptly.
What happened
Mr F holds a SIPP with James Hay. In spring 2020, when the financial markets were falling 
rapidly, Mr F wanted to invest in the oil sector. He says the range of funds available in his 
Investment Centre account was too limited, so he opened a Selftrade account in order to 
access a wider range of funds and shares.
From the information that has been provided to this service, I understand that Mr F applied 
for a Selftrade account in early May 2020. The account was opened for Mr F on 6 May 2020. 
James Hay accepts that it failed to send a letter that day to confirm that the Selftrade 
account was active. It has apologised for this oversight on its part.
Mr F and his adviser only became aware that the account had been opened on 13 May 
2020, when Mr Fs adviser chased up the matter.
As a result of James Hays failure to notify him that the Selftrade account had been opened, 
Mr F says he had to delay selling holdings in his Investment Centre account and transferring 
these funds to the Selftrade account. Mr F complained to James Hay and his adviser also 
sent a detailed timeline and set out how it felt the redress should be calculated.
James Hay upheld Mr Fs complaint. But it said it did not accept the redress calculation Mr 
Fs adviser had carried out. It provided a timeline setting out when it thought events would 
have happened if it hadnt caused Mr F to delay selling holdings in his Investment Centre 
account and transferring the funds to his Selftrade account.
It then used this timeline as the basis for calculating its redress offer.
Mr F was not satisfied with the offer James Hay made and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Having considered Mr Fs complaint our investigator said she felt the offer James Hay had 
made was fair and reasonable and she didnt think it needed to offer any more to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr F remained unhappy with James Hays offer. He said he didnt think it was fair for James 
Hay to have assumed that money in his Selftrade account  would have been retained in 
cash from May 2020 until present.
He explained that he felt the offer was unfair as it was based upon the assumption that I 
intended to purchase a specific number of shares irrespective of the sum raised from the 
prior sale of funds and have offered their compensation based upon the difference in share 
price between the actual transaction date (what happened) and what should have happened. 
The methodology adopted compensates me for the movement in share price over a 9 day 
period (18th May 2020  26th May 2020) but fails to reflect the loss of utility of this money 
(£10,013) over the intervening period.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Fs complaint on 16 December 2022. In it I explained 
that I had reached a different view to that of our investigator. I explained my provisional 
decision as follows:
I said I had carefully considered the timeline James Hay had used to calculate the redress it 
offered to pay Mr F. The timeline (below) set out when it thought each step would have 
happened if it had notified Mr F promptly that his Selftrade account had been opened.
- 01/05/2020 - James Hay receive the completed Selftrade application form for Mr F.
- 06/05/2020 - James Hay set up the Selftrade account with Selftrade and provide 
confirmation of this to [Mr Fs adviser] via post (2nd class).
- 07/05/2020 - James Hay set up the Selftrade account on their systems, so it is now 
viewable online.
- 11/05/2020 - Letter received by IFA/member. I have made allowance for 4 days, based on 
the standard 2nd class post taking 3 days and an extra day due to the delays with the royal 
mail due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
- 12/05/2020 - First Investment Centre sales placed. I have used this date to mirror the 
actual date used for the sales, which was the day after confirmation was received,
- 14/05/2020 - Second Investment Centre disinvestments placed. Please note I have used 
this date to mirror the original instruction, which was received two days after confirmation 
was received. It was submitted online at the end of day so had to be rolled over to the next 
working day.
- 15/05/2020 - Proceeds from [name of fund] received. This date mirrors the turnaround time 
of the original sale instruction.
- 18/05/2020 - £77K sent to Selftrade as per Mr Fs instruction. Please note I acknowledge 
that Mr F requested to send two amounts of £77K to Selftrade. However, if I mirror receipt of 
Mr Fs instruction and receipt of the sale proceeds, it would not have been possible to send 
both on this date. I also note that when the £77K was sent across to Selftrade, only an 
amount of £74,353.50 was invested.
- 19/05/2020 - Proceeds received from [name of second fund] received. As well as several 
funds received from the second set of disinvestments placed. This date mirrors the 
turnaround time of the original sale instructions.
- 20/05/2020 - Proceeds received from various Investment Centre holdings sold on 
14/05/2020. This date mirrors the turnaround time of the original sale instructions.
- 21/05/2020 - Final sale proceeds received from the various Investment Centre holdings 
sold on 14/05/2020. This date mirrors the turnaround time of the original sale instructions.
- 22/05/2020 - Following receipt of the final Investment Centre funds, second investments 
are placed with Selftrade.I carefully considered whether this timeline was reasonable. Having done so, I said I thought 
that the timeline James Hay had used was a fair and reasonable reflection of what would 
most likely have happened, if it had issued confirmation by post when the Selftrade account 
was opened.
I noted that Mr F and his IFA said that if he had been notified by email on 6 May 2020, that 
the Selftrade account had been opened, Mr F would have immediately started selling 
holdings in his Investment Centre account. Based on the evidence I had seen, I said I 
couldnt safely agree with this claim.
In particular I said I must take into account that Mr F did not starts selling his holdings until 
the day after James Hay had confirmed that the Selftrade account had been opened.
Likewise, I said I appreciated that it would have been helpful if James Hay had emailed 
either Mr F, or his adviser to notify them that the Selftrade account was open, but James 
Hay had confirmed that its normal procedure was to send confirmation by post. In view of 
this I said I couldnt reasonably say that the redress calculation should be based on the 
assumption that Mr F would have been in a position to start selling holdings in his 
Investment Centre account on 6 May 2020.
I explained that I couldnt say with certainty that the timeline James Hay had used as the 
basis for its redress calculation was what would have happened, if it had promptly confirmed 
that the Selftrade account had been opened. But I said I thought it did reflect what would 
most likely have happened, but for the failure to notify Mr F or his adviser that the account 
had been opened.
However, I said I didnt think the assumption James Hay had made - that if Mr F had been 
able to sell his holdings sooner, and therefore had transferred a larger cash amount to his 
Selftrade account, he would have left this amount in cash - was fair or reasonable.
I noted Mr F had commented:
I most strongly challenge the suggestion that the funds would have been retained in cash 
from May 2020 until present. As I noted in my email response to your enquiry about the 
nature of my claim, the whole purpose of the exercise of transferring funds into the new 
James Hay module was then to immediately invest them in the target oil & gas funds as the 
oil price was rising strongly at the time. James Hay can vouch for the fact that all the other 
funds transferred into the new module were immediately used to purchase the new funds. 
So, the funds would most definitely not have been held as cash from May 2020 until present. 
Having reviewed the information that had been provided to this service, I said I thought the 
assumption in the redress calculation James Hay carried out, that Mr F would have left this 
additional money uninvested, after it was transferred to his Selftrade account, was not fair or 
reasonable.
I noted that James Hay had subsequently offered to pay 8% simple interest on this money, 
but I said I didnt think this adequately reflected the loss Mr F had suffered.
James Hay said it disputed that Mr F intended  to invest the funds with Selftrade in a
particular way and in specific percentages. It said it had been unable to match these 
percentages/figures to the amounts actually invested and in the absence of a signed 
agreement from Mr F to evidence this intention, I have produced my calculations based on 
the actual units purchasedI said I didnt think this was a fair or reasonable assumption. I said that, as I understood it, Mr 
F had fully invested the money he transferred to his Selftrade account by the end of May 
2020. In view of this, I said it seemed more likely than not that Mr F would have invested all 
the money available, rather than buying a specific number of units and shares and leaving 
cash uninvested in his Selftrade account.
In order to put matters right, I said I thought James Hay should re-work the redress 
calculation it had carried out, using the same dates it set out in its final response letter, dated 
January 2021, but assuming that all the money Mr F would have transferred to this account 
(if he had sold the holdings in his Investment Centre account as per the timeline) had been 
invested. 
James Hay responded to say it did not accept my provisional decision. 
It said it did not think it was fair or reasonable for me to have said Mr F had fully invested 
the money he transferred to his Selftrade account by the end of May 2020. It said Mr F had 
left around £550 of the funds he had transferred to his Selftrade account in cash. It reiterated 
that this was why it had carried out a price comparison based on the units purchased in the 
redress it had offered. And it asked this service to provide the evidence that 100% of the 
funds sent across were invested within the Selftrade holdings by the end of May 2020.
Mr F also responded to my provisional decision. He said he appreciated the provisional 
decision, but wanted to clarify that he had not sold holdings in his Investment Centre account 
before he received confirmation that his Selftrade account had been opened as he  didn't 
know when the new module would be open: until it was open, I didn't know where to move 
the funds to; there was no point in taking funds out of a potentially earning situation to await 
an opportunity to re-deploy them to a time when the new module was opened; and perhaps, 
most significantly, that I was not aware that it would take a week for JH to sell the units in 
their original funds and to transfer the funds into the new module, so that I could invest them 
there. The latter point was a significant surprise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not intend to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mr F says that as he didnt know when his Selftrade account would be opened he didnt want 
to sell holdings in his Investment Centre account as there was no point in taking funds out 
of a potentially earning situation to await an opportunity to re-deploy them to a time when the 
new module was opened... It was, of course, Mr Fs prerogative when he chose to sell 
holdings in his Investment Centre account.
I note Mr F also says that he was not aware that it would take a week for JH to sell the 
units in their original funds and to transfer the funds into the new module, so that I could 
invest them there. The latter point was a significant surprise. I appreciate that this may have 
come as a surprise to Mr F, but as Mr Fs IFA was assisting him in moving funds from his 
Investment Centre account to a Selftrade account I would have expected Mr Fs IFA to make 
him aware that there would be a settlement period, and he would not be able to transfer the 
proceeds until the trades had settled. 
I appreciate that Mr F would have found it frustrating if he had expected to be able to 
immediately transfer the proceeds from holdings he had sold in his Investment Centre 
account. But I cant reasonably find that James Hay acted incorrectly by not permitting the proceeds to be transferred until the transactions had settled.
Was Mr F fully invested?
I asked Mr F to confirm whether James Hays claim, that he had left around 0.2% of the 
money he had transferred to his Selftrade account in May 2020, in cash was correct.  
Mr F kindly re-checked his records and confirmed that only £1.25 had been left in cash in his 
Selftrade account by 27 May 2020. In light of this I asked James Hay to provide evidence to 
support its claim that Mr F left around £550 uninvested. On re-checking its records James 
Hay accepted that there was only £1.25 left in cash in Mr Fs Selftrade account by late May 
2020.
As both parties now accept that Mr F was fully invested by the end of May 2020, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision that Mr F would have invested all the money 
available, rather than buying a specific number of units and shares and leaving cash 
uninvested in his Selftrade account.
I therefore remain of the view that James Hay should re-work the redress calculation it has 
carried out, using the same dates it set out in its final response letter, dated January 2021, 
but assuming that all the money Mr F would have transferred to this account (if he had sold 
the holdings in his Investment Centre account as per the timeline) had been invested. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if James Hay had promptly notified him that his Selftrade account had been 
opened.
I think Mr F would have invested in the same way, and would have fully invested all the 
money transferred to his Selftrade account. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What must James Hay do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, James Hay must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
James Hay should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
James Hay should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If James Hay is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If James Hay deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. James Hay should give Mr F 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Selftrade
SIPPStill 
exists 
and 
liquidActual
investments
bought,
but assuming
Mr F fully invested
all the money he
transferred, in the
same proportions
but buying the
maximum number of
shares or units
possible with the
funds availableThe dates
set out in
James Hays
January
2021 
timelineDate of 
my final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
 from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
(I am mindful that there appears to have been a rights issue for one of Mr Fs holdings and
 that Mr F would have received dividend income for at least some of his holdings. James 
Hay should take this into account in its calculations.)
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if James Hay totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
I think Mr F would have fully invested all the money he transferred into his Selftrade 
account.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I uphold this complaint. In order to 
resolve matters, James Hay Administration Company Ltd should calculate and pay the 
redress due, as set out above.
It should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman