DRN-2265731
The complaint
Mr H complains about the response he received when trying to make a claim on a policy he 
held with British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas). 
What happened
Mr H held a home emergency policy with British Gas. On 23 December 2019 he called to 
report that his boiler had broken down and he didnt have hot water or heating. British Gas 
informed him that the next available appointment was seven days later. Mr H wasnt happy 
with this so he informed British Gas that he would be calling out his own engineer and that 
he expected British Gas to reimburse him for those costs, which it agreed to.
Mr Hs boiler was fixed on 24 December 2019 and he was reimbursed for these costs on 27 
December 2019. Mr H was unhappy with the way British Gas handled his claim. He said the 
seven-day response time was unreasonable, that British Gas hadnt helped him find a 
suitably qualified engineer, that British Gas didnt plan effectively for the Christmas period 
and that its television advert stated that help would be available 24/7, which he believes to 
be misleading. British Gas paid Mr H £20 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of the 
service he had received. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that we 
couldnt consider whether the television advert was misleading, and she didnt think British 
Gas had responded unreasonably to Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
Mr H has raised several issues this service isnt able to consider. I would clarify that we 
arent the regulator  thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. And we dont review 
whether television adverts meet the required advertising standards. So I am limited in what I 
can consider. 
Mr H has said that he doesnt think British Gas was adequately resourced throughout the 
Christmas period but that is a matter for British Gas to consider. My role is to consider Mr 
Hs individual complaint and how British Gas handled his claim. 
Mr H has said that British Gas didnt provide a reasonable timeframe for sending an 
engineer  it had offered an appointment seven days away. I can appreciate why Mr H would 
find that concerning and I would agree that seven days is too long to wait for a home 
emergency call out, particularly when Mr H highlighted some reasons that meant he should 
have been prioritised.
But I must consider that Mr H instead insisted on appointing his own engineer to fix the 
problem sooner, which British Gas agreed to. So while I can understand that Mr H was 
frustrated about the seven-day delay, I can only consider what actually happened rather than 
what might have happened. And in this instance, Mr H was able to have his boiler fixed the 
following day, which I would consider to be a reasonable timescale.
I understand that Mr H says he made this suggestion and it wasnt something that British 
Gas offered but ultimately British Gas did agree to it and reimbursed Mr H very quickly to 
ensure he wasnt out of pocket. Mr H has also said that British Gas should have assisted him 
by suggesting appropriate engineers, but I can see that British Gas paid Mr H £20 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, which I think is sufficient to recognise 
the inconvenience of Mr H needing to find his own engineer.
So while I can understand why Mr H was unhappy with the service he received given the 
length of time between his boiler breaking and the suggested date for the British Gas 
engineer to visit, as Mr Hs boiler was able to be fixed the following day and British Gas 
reimbursed these costs, I dont think British Gas needs to do anything more to resolve this 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman