DRN-4398271
The complaint
Miss M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, are holding her 
liable for a credit card that she says was opened and used fraudulently in her name.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Tesco Bank received an online application for a credit card in Miss Ms name on 
14 June 2022. The application was approved by Tesco Bank and they sent the credit card to 
Miss Ms home address. The credit card had a £250 limit. 
The credit card was used frequently between 20 June and 1 July 2022. It had an outstanding 
balance of £249.07 from this usage  after receiving three repayments on 30 June 2022 
totalling about £470. Tesco Bank sent account statements to Miss Ms home over the next 
few months, along with notice of sums in arrears letters  informing her how much was owed 
on the account.
Miss M reported the credit card as being opened fraudulently to Tesco Bank in October 2022 
and that she hadnt made the purchases on it. In a later call to Tesco Bank, she confirmed 
that she had made one payment on the credit card  about £25 for petrol on 20 June 2022  
but the rest of the payments werent made by her. 
Tesco Bank investigated the matter and issued a final response to Miss Ms complaint in 
May 2023. In short, they said:
They issued the credit card to Miss Ms home address, which she confirmed several 
times when calling them.
Miss M contacted them on 20 June 2022 to request her telephone number be 
updated. She also contacted them the following day to request the credit card be 
unblocked to allow her to make an online transaction. In this call, they explained to 
Miss M the issue was due to the Mastercard 3D secure facility being deactivated  
and so they reactivated it. An online transaction for about £26 was then made. In 
neither of these calls did Miss M mention receiving the credit card without requesting 
it. 
Between 10 August and 14 October 2022, they wrote to Miss M nine times 
concerning various issues with the account - including being over the credit limit, 
missed payments, returned and cancelled direct debits, and the account being in 
arrears. 
Their records show Miss M disputes making all payments on the credit card except 
the one for petrol on 20 June 2022. 
They were unable to uphold the complaint as the evidence suggests Miss M was 
aware of the account and had the credit card in her possession from at least 20 June 
2022. Miss M also contacted Tesco Bank on two occasions that month but she didnt 
raise any concerns about receiving the credit card without applying for it. And they 
sent correspondence about the account between June and October 2022, which 
Miss M acknowledged receiving. 
They apologised for the length of time its taken for them to complete their 
investigation  but confirmed no further transactions had been made on the account 
since Miss M contacted them in October 2022.
Miss M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, but our Investigator didnt think 
Tesco Bank had acted unfairly. She said she hadnt seen anything to show the application 
for the credit card wasnt genuine. And she didnt think it had been taken out or used 
fraudulently given Miss M has confirmed she used the card herself, rather than reporting to 
Tesco Bank that she hadnt applied for it in the two calls made shortly after the account was 
opened. And so, she thought Tesco Bank had acted fairly by pursuing Miss M for the debt as 
well as recording it against her credit file. Because of this, our Investigator didnt think Tesco 
Bank had to do anything further.
Miss M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, shes added:
She reiterated that she never applied or registered for the credit card and, while at 
the same time this happened, she also had £5,000 fraudulently taken from her bank 
account. So, whoever did that applied for the credit card in her name too.  
She only realised the credit card had been taken out when the first £250 came out of 
her bank account in June 2022. And the reason the payments were made to the 
credit card from her bank account is because someone had access to her online 
banking. 
The petrol payment on the credit card is the only transaction she made, and she has 
repaid far more than this already so wont be paying any more.
She never called Tesco Bank to change her telephone number and she isnt a liar. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss M, but having done so, Ive come to same 
outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
A consumer shouldnt be held liable for a credit agreement they didnt consent to, nor should 
they be held liable for payments they havent authorised. Ive therefore considered whether, 
on balance, I think Miss M consented to this credit card agreement and authorised the 
payments. I appreciate Miss M feels very strongly about this and so I should explain that, 
given I wasnt present at the point of application or when the payments were made, I cant 
know with complete certainty what happened. I therefore must base my outcome on the 
available evidence and what I consider is most likely to have happened. 
Miss M has confirmed that she received the credit card and used it on 20 June 2022 to 
purchase petrol. She denies however making any other purchases with the card. Nor has 
she given any explanation as to how the credit card or its details, as well as the PIN number, 
couldve been obtained by a third party  other than suggesting that the fraud was carried 
out by the same individual(s) that she says hacked her personal bank account and had 
access to her online banking. Ive given what Miss M has said careful consideration. But it seems implausible to me that 
Miss M wouldve received a credit card and knowingly used it to make a purchase (for petrol) 
had she not applied for it. Particularly when considering Miss M says she has previously 
been the victim of fraud and lost a significant amount of money. I think it wouldve been 
reasonable to have expected Miss M to have immediately contacted Tesco Bank and 
reported the credit card as fraudulent had she not applied for it. And so, Im not persuaded 
by Miss Ms explanation for using the card  that being, when she went to purchase petrol, 
she had forgotten her own bank card and so chanced her luck by using the credit card as 
shed put it in the back of her mobile phone. But even if I were to accept this as true, 
similarly, I think it wouldve been incumbent on Miss M to have reported the credit card as 
fraudulent at this point rather than several months later when the subsequent transactions 
had been made  including explaining to Tesco Bank about the single transaction she 
accepts as genuine. 
Ive also considered two telephone conversations with Tesco Bank on 20 and 21 June 2022. 
The first happened on the same day as the petrol purchase. In this call, the person speaking 
to Tesco Bank explains they recently received the credit card and asks for the telephone 
number to be updated on the account  with the telephone number provided the same as 
which Miss M has provided the Financial Ombudsman. In the second call, the person 
speaking with Tesco Bank requested for a block to be removed on the card to allow them to 
make an online purchase. Tesco Bank actioned this request and, shortly after this, an online 
purchase was made. 
The person who contacted Tesco Bank passed the relevant security questions on both calls. 
And, having listened very carefully to these calls, it sounds like the same person that 
contacted Tesco Bank from October 2022 onwards to report the fraud  that being Miss M. I 
appreciate Miss M is adamant she didnt make these calls and has made it clear she isnt a 
liar. But I think its highly unlikely that a fraudster would request a change of telephone 
number and provide Miss Ms legitimate number  as, ordinarily, a fraudster would ensure 
the contact details held by the lender arent legitimate, thereby ensuring the victim doesnt 
receive any contact from the lender. Furthermore, given thered already been a purchase on 
the account authorised by chip and pin (in addition to the petrol purchase), it seems 
improbable that a fraudster would go to the risk of contacting Tesco Bank to remove a block 
to allow online purchases when they couldve easily accessed the funds by way of chip and 
pin  either making further purchases or making an ATM withdrawal. 
Ive also taken into account that the payments made towards the credit card came from a 
bank account held in Miss Ms name. Miss M has said this was likely carried out by the 
person who hacked her bank account, as they had access to her online banking. But this, 
again, seems unlikely. I say this because, if a fraudster had access to a persons online 
banking, then it would be reasonable for them to have simply transferred the funds to 
another account in their own control  rather than go to the effort of paying off a credit card 
to make more purchases. 
Miss M also offered to pay the outstanding balance on the credit card to Tesco Bank in 
January 2023  but only on the basis the account remained open for her to use going 
forward. While I understand Miss M explained to Tesco Bank this was because she wanted 
to protect her credit score and build it back up by using the credit card, I wouldnt ordinarily 
expect an individual to willingly pay for a debt that wasnt their own.
Ive also not seen anything to evidence the credit card details were intercepted or obtained 
by another person and thereby used fraudulently  particularly given Miss M received it and 
used it herself. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that the application shouldve been 
identified by Tesco Bank as being potentially fraudulent at the time it was submitted.I know Miss M will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I dont think I 
can fairly and reasonably conclude that the credit card was opened or used fraudulently. It 
follows that I think Tesco Bank has acted fairly by pursuing Miss M for the debt owed and 
recording it on her credit file. Im therefore not directing Tesco Bank to take any further 
action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman