DRN-1686062
The complaint
Miss C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2002.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint. So Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
The PPI policy was sold to Miss C when she took out a hire purchase agreement in April 
2002.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Having done so I am upholding Miss Cs complaint, Ill explain why.
The policy sold to Miss C contained an exclusion meaning Miss C wouldnt have been able 
to make a claim for time off work due to a medical condition that had already been 
diagnosed.
I dont think AXA made this important exclusion clear to Miss C when she was sold the 
policy.
I think this would have made a difference to Miss C as shes told us she had a pre-existing 
medical condition in April 2002. Miss C has told us she was diagnosed with this condition 
around two years before she was sold the PPI.
AXA has not disputed that Miss C had the medical condition, but it says it was likely to have 
been managed. However, I still think I should uphold this complaint. Miss C has told us she 
had to take six months off work when she was diagnosed with the condition. The purpose of 
the insurance was to protect her payments going forward and if the condition returned and 
caused her to need more time off work, she wouldnt be able to claim. I think Miss C would 
think her medical condition to be one of the more likely reasons she may need to take time 
off work in the future.
Taking everything into account I dont think Miss C wouldve bought the policy if AXA had 
made her aware of the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  Putting things right
AXA should put Miss C in the position she would be in now if she hadnt taken out MPPI. So 
AXA needs to:
Pay Miss C the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Miss C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give       
 Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Miss C compensation as set out 
in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman