DRN-1295512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about their mortgage application to HSBC UK Bank Plc. They say 
HSBC misled them into thinking theyd be able to borrow more than they could as Mr H 
wasnt asked about his student loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with HSBC and wanted to move house. Theyd had various 
conversations over the phone leading up to the application. On 15 August 2019 they had a 
meeting in branch and were told they could borrow £164,350.
Five days later they were told the maximum lending figure was in fact only £142,250 as Mr 
Hs student loan hadnt been taken into account. Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs H 
complained to HSBC saying they hadnt been asked about his student loan, only personal 
loans. They said theyd paid a deposit to a solicitor in those four days (a cost of £82) so they 
wanted that covered as well as the early repayment charge (ERC) waived on their current 
mortgage so they could arrange a new mortgage elsewhere. HSBC said it hadnt done 
anything wrong but credited £100 to Mr and Mrs Hs account as a gesture of goodwill to 
cover the solicitors fees.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mr and Mrs H wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read 
and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked or how compensation should be 
calculated.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case Mr and Mrs H were told they could borrow more than they were able to. 
This is a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were 
looking at complaints of this type, we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the 
consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We 
dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct.
Mr and Mrs H could never have been in the position where HSBC was willing to lend them 
the higher amount. The mistake was corrected within five days and before Mr and Mrs H had 
incurred any costs (other than the £82 they say they paid to their solicitor as a deposit). That means Mr and Mrs H have already had the appropriate remedy in that they knew the true 
position before they were legally tied to selling their property and buying another. Despite 
this Mr and Mrs H chose to go ahead with the sale of their property. On a side note, I would 
presume Mr and Mrs H used the same solicitor for the sale that they intended to use for the 
purchase, which normally would mean they shouldn't have lost the deposit as the solicitor 
would transfer it over as a credit to the new file.
Mr and Mrs H have said they understand the ERC shouldnt have been waived, but they feel 
a reasonable level of compensation is £1,285 which theyve broken down for me.
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. Theres a 
big difference between a conversation on the phone to give an indicative lending amount 
and a formal mortgage interview. I wouldnt have expected the chats before 15 August to 
necessarily have identified the student loan issue, whereas it should have been picked up on 
15 August; and from there the mis-information was corrected just five days later. HSBC has 
paid £100 and having looked at all the evidence  and keeping in mind the level of award we 
normally make  I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I consider HSBC UK Bank 
Plc made a fair offer in its response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman