DRN-3537199
The complaint
Miss B and Mr H complain that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly 
granted them a hire purchase agreement they couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2016, Miss B and Mr H acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase 
agreement from TCFC. Miss B and Mr H were required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
£271. The total repayable under the agreement was £13,010.
Miss B and Mr H say that TCFC didnt complete adequate affordability checks. They say if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. TCFC didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included credit checks and verifying the income 
through payslips and bank statements.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought TCFC ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Miss B and Mr H.
TCFC didnt agree and said Miss B and Mr Hs income was verified and that the policy at the 
time was to check expenditure against third party databases and to ask the customer to 
verify by signing the income and expenditure summary. It said a contingency of £300 was 
always included. It noted that TCFC operated in the sub-prime market and so customers 
having some adverse credit information wasnt unusual and that the account was cleared 
with the contractual 48 months. It said its checks were proportionate. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit check TCFC completed for Miss B didnt show any recent issues. The credit 
check for Mr H showed a number of defaults and a count court judgement. While I note the 
defaults were historic, I think the number should have raised concerns and there was also a 
delinquent account recorded in the previous 12 months suggesting that Mr H was still 
experiencing financial difficulties. Mr H had a large outstanding balance for revolving credit 
and loans and his bank statements showed he was making use of short-term loans. The 
agreement was in both names and it was Mr Hs income that was verified. Given the 
information identified through Mr Hs credit check I think TCFC ought to have been 
concerned that Mr H was struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate 
for TCFC to have got a more thorough understanding of Miss B and Mr Hs financial 
circumstances before lending.
Before granting the finance, I think TCFC gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Miss B and Mr H about their income. I say this because it verified the 
income using payslips and had copies of bank statements. Information was gathered about 
Miss B and Mr Hs expenditure and the income and expenditure information was signed. 
However, given the information contained in Mr Hs credit file and noting the variation in 
Mr Hs income (and that Miss B didnt have an income) I think that the expenditure amounts 
should also have been verified.
Ive reviewed the bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These show that Mr H 
was struggling financially. There are returned direct debits for household bills, regular use of 
a payday loan provider and payments to other credit providers. Mr Hs account was 
consistently in overdraft and any income received was used generally within the day of 
receipt. Clearly Miss B and Mr H werent in a position to afford the repayments towards the 
new agreement without financial difficulty or having to borrow further. Had TCFC considered 
all the information that was provided as part of its checks, I think its likely it would have 
discovered this too. It therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think TCFC ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss B and Mr H should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £6,500. I note the 
comment about this price but this was the amount included in the signed agreement and I do 
not find I have enough evidence to say this was incorrect. Anything Miss B and Mr H have 
paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Miss B and Mr Hs complaint TCFC should ensure the following happens:
Refund any payments Miss B and Mr H have made in excess of £6,500, representing 
the original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss B and Mr Hs credit file regarding 
the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TCFC to take off tax from this interest. TCFC must give 
Miss b and Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd to put things right in 
the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman