DRN-3440462
The complaint
Mrs D complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund her for 143 
transactions which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 18 June 2020, Mrs D rang NatWest. She disputed 143 transactions to an app store, 
which had debited her account between November 2017 and May 2020. The total value was 
£3,282.77 and they had taken place on three different cards over this period. The adviser 
told Mrs D shed cancel the current card and send a replacement. 
The adviser asked a number of questions. She asked about any way in which Mrs D thought 
the card could have been compromised. Mrs D didnt know of any way this could have 
happened. The adviser asked whether Mrs D had any suspicions about who could have 
made the transactions, for example any family or friends, and Mrs D said no, she kept the 
card herself.  She also asked why Mrs D hadnt noticed these transactions on her 
statements for three years, and Mrs D said it was because she didnt check her statements 
and she didnt understand them.
The adviser then told Mrs D that based on the information in the phone call, she hadnt 
provided a satisfactory reason for the delay in reporting the activity as fraud, so NatWest 
was unable to take her claim further and was declining her claim. The adviser explained that 
this was in the terms and conditions, and it was Mrs Ds responsibility to be checking her 
account. She said that if Mrs D objected to the decline, she could take it further and she 
advised getting a crime reference from the police, and she could then ring back. She could 
also contact the app store, so these were her next steps.
Mrs D complained. She was unhappy her fraud claim had been declined; that she hadnt had 
a written letter about it; and said that the June adviser had been rude and hadnt explained 
the process, next steps and her rights.
In its final response letter, NatWest said that its fraud department had correctly worked Mrs 
Ds fraud claim, but it agreed that Mrs D should have had a letter about the outcome and 
should have been told she could appeal. 
Mrs D wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.  She said that she hadnt put card details 
on her phone, and that she didnt understand what was happening with her account. She 
said she didnt receive statements for some time, and when she did, she took it to a friend 
who saw the transactions, and she then reported it to NatWest. Mrs D said her children were 
young at the time, and no-one would have used her phone. Mrs D said that the amount in 
her account had been lower than shed expected, but shed thought her expenditure might 
have been higher than usual. Mrs D thought her card must have been compromised 
somewhere, but didnt know where. Mrs D said that NatWest hadnt co-operated and should 
have sorted it out with the app store. She said that she hadnt received goods and services 
so she shouldnt have to pay for them.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. He said he found it difficult to comprehend 
how Mrs D hadnt been aware of the transactions going back to 2017, until 2020. He thought 
she could have noticed the transactions sooner. He appreciated what Mrs D had said about 
lack of understanding  but said it was still her responsibility to make sure her account was 
managed. And if she needed help with this, she should speak to the bank.
Mrs D replied that she wasnt satisfied, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. Here, Mrs D disputed 
transactions between November 2017 and May 2020. This means that there are two sets of 
regulations involved:
- The Payment Services Regulations 2009 cover payments from 1 November 2009 to 
12 January 2018; and 
- The Payment Services Regulations 2017 cover payments from 13 January 2018 
onwards.
 
Both sets of regulations have similar provisions about the key issues relating to Mrs Ds 
complaint. They say that the payment service provider (here, NatWest) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the computer 
records which show that Mrs Ds transactions were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
The regulations also set out timescales by which a customer (called a payment service 
user) must report disputed payments. Regulation 59 of the Payment Services Regulations 
2009, and Regulation 74 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017, say that:
A payment service user is entitled to redress  only if it notifies the payment service 
provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date.
What the Regulations mean for Mrs Ds complaint
As the regulations say that the customer has to report disputed transactions within 13 
months, NatWest didnt have to consider all the transactions which Mrs D reported going 
back to November 2017. Mrs D didnt report them until 18 June 2020, so NatWest only had 
to consider the transactions between May 2019 and June 2020. This service, too, cant 
consider Mrs Ds complaint about the transactions before May 2019, because she 
complained too late. 
I recognise that Mrs D said that she didnt check her statements, that some didnt arrive, and 
that she didnt understand. But this doesnt change the fact that she complained about the 
earlier transactions too late.
So Ive looked solely at the transactions between 19 May 2019 and 18 June 2020.As Ive set out above, the computer evidence provided by NatWest shows that these were 
technically authenticated. So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that 
Mrs D authorised these.
Mrs D told NatWest, and this service, that no-one else had used her phone and that she 
hadnt put her NatWest card information onto the phone. She wasnt able to say how her 
phone or card could have been compromised.
However, Mrs Ds card had been replaced twice during this time, so whoever carried out the 
transactions would have had to obtain her details three times.
I can also see that, mixed in between the disputed transactions, Mrs D was using the 
account regularly for normal spend which she hasnt disputed. This means its difficult to see 
how anyone else, unless they were close to Mrs D, might have repeatedly used and returned 
her phone and card without her knowledge. 
And the pattern of spend here isnt a normal pattern for a third party fraudster. Theyd usually 
spend a lot of money quickly, on multiple purchases, to maximise their gain before it could 
be spotted. The transactions about which Mrs D has complained are all to one organisation, 
and many are for small amounts, eg £2.99.  They were also carried out over a long period of 
time. So this all makes it unlikely that it was a third party fraudster.
I recognise that Mrs D has said she didnt check statements, and she didnt understand. But 
the terms and conditions of her account say that customers must take all reasonable steps 
to keep their security details safe, and must report disputed transactions as soon as 
possible. And as Mrs D was using the account regularly, I think its reasonable to conclude 
she could have noticed the transactions sooner. If she found it hard to understand the 
statements, she could have asked a relative, friend, or NatWest, for help.  
Taking these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mrs D authorised 
the transactions herself, or that she allowed someone close to her to do so. This means 
NatWest doesnt have to refund her.
Finally, Ive listened to the call recording from June 2020 where Mrs D raised the dispute. I 
note that Mrs D complained about the NatWest adviser, saying she was rude, and didnt 
explain the process and next steps. But I consider the adviser was very patient and calm 
with Mrs D - who didnt always answer the advisers questions, and sometimes loudly 
interrupted the adviser. The adviser had to ask the same questions multiple times, and I 
think she did so with patience. The adviser also clearly explained the reasons for the banks 
rejection of Mrs Ds fraud claim, and explained to her what the next steps were. So I dont 
consider NatWest needs to compensate Mrs D for its handling of that call.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman