DRN-3762019
The complaint
Mr A complains he was mis-sold a loan by a broker working on behalf of Carnegie 
Consumer Finance Limited (Carnegie). The loan was to fund a plumbing course which 
Mr A is also unhappy with.
What happened
Mr A says a representative of a company I will call N knocked on his door in September 
2019 and convinced him to sign up to a plumbing course. He says the representative told 
him that the course would cost £180 per month for the first three months, and then reduce to 
£20 per month because he came from a low-income household, meaning he would benefit 
from a government scheme. Mr A says he was under the impression he was just paying 
course fees by direct debit and there was no mention of a loan, either verbally or on any 
paperwork.
In January 2021 Mr A spoke to Carnegie, who informed him he had taken out a loan of 
£7,700. Mr A complained that this was not what hed been told at the time of sale and that he 
had no idea how hed even been able to pass the credit check as he had a low income. He 
also said he did not know where the figure of £7,700 had come from because other 
comparable courses cost only £1,500.
Carnegie didnt accept the complaint. They said Mr A had signed a loan agreement on 4 
September 2019 and had agreed to make 43 instalment payments of £180 each, so he 
couldnt say that he hadnt known he was taking out a loan. They also said that theyd 
carried out various checks to establish the payments would have been affordable for him 
and that hed had an opportunity to cancel within the first 14 days if he didnt think the 
arrangements were suitable for him.
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was looked 
into by one of our investigators. He concluded the following:
Mr A had been present to sign the loan agreement, which had shown how much the 
loan was for, how long it lasted and what the monthly payments were.
There wasnt evidence to show that the arrangements had been misrepresented or 
that the payments would be reduced later.
Although Mr A may now be experiencing financial difficulties, this wasnt something 
Carnegie could be held responsible for.
Overall, our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A, through a 
representative, responded that he had been manipulated into believing N could help him get 
a job and that he hadnt seen any paperwork. He said N had been preying on vulnerable 
people and Carnegie hadnt carried out any credit checks. 
Our investigator considered Mr As points further but didnt agree. He said that it was fair to 
say the paperwork had been completed and that Mr A would have been aware what he was 
signing up for. He also said that Mr A had completed an affordability assessment which had 
taken account of his income and expenditure, and which had shown the loan was affordable. 
Ultimately no agreement could be reached and Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He mentioned at this point that the services he was promised by N had not been 
received and the course modules and resources didnt match what happened. Our 
investigator asked for more information and if there was any evidence to support this. To 
date we have not heard from Mr A with further evidence and the case has now been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main points to Mr As complaint. The first is that he was mis-sold the loan 
because he wasnt made aware that what he was signing up for was a loan and that he 
would need to pay £180 per month for 43 months. The second is that Carnegie cannot have 
carried out proper affordability checks before agreeing to lend to him. I will cover each in 
turn. But before I do so I will address a third area of complaint which Mr A has referred to  
which is about the plumbing course itself. 
Carnegie could be held responsible for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations by N 
in relation to the plumbing course, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). However, Mr A hasnt been very specific about what exactly was wrong with the 
course or what he was told about it which was false. Hes previously provided links to a news 
article and an online review which are both critical of N. Hes also implied that the course 
was overpriced and wouldnt get him the qualification promised, and more recently has 
referred to unspecified issues with the resources and modules.
Due to the lack of specifics in Mr As complaint about the course itself I dont see how I can 
come to any conclusions about this. I therefore make no findings on this part of his 
complaint. I note that Mr A has not complained to Carnegie about problems with the course 
modules and resources, or being unable to obtain a particular qualification. He is still free to 
do that and my final decision on the other aspects of his complaint should not prevent him 
from doing so.
The sale of the loan
The sale of loans in a consumers home is an activity which the Financial Conduct Authority 
has recognised as carrying additional risks of mis-sale and other poor consumer outcomes.1 
This was for a variety of reasons including the lack of oversight of sales staff inherent in door 
to door sales.
That said, not every such sale is a mis-sale and the outcome of a complaint always depends 
on the evidence available. There are a number pieces of evidence in Mr As case which 
suggest to me that he was aware of the terms on which he was signing up to purchase the 
course  in other words that he was aware that he was signing up for a loan and that the 
payments he was expected to make would not drop to £20 per month after three months.
The documents completed on the day
Theres a general legal principle that where someone has signed a document, they are taken 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/correspondence/credit-brokers-portfolio-letter.pdf to have read, understood and agreed to it. While that isnt always the end of the matter, it is 
the starting point.
Mr A appears to have signed several documents with Ns representative. These included a 
course registration form, an affordability assessment, a student status credit application, 
and a loan agreement. 
The loan agreement was headed, in large font, Fixed Sum Loan Agreement regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said Mr A was buying a plumbing course costing £7,800 
and that he was expected to pay 43 monthly payments of £180. Mr A signed in a box, below 
the words This is a Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it 
only if you want to be legally-bound by its terms.
Mr A has not denied that it is his signature on the documents. I think it was clear from the 
documents that he was signing up for a loan. However, Mr A also spoke to a representative 
of Carnegie on the phone while the loan application was being made. Ive listened to a 
recording of this call. Carnegies representative said the following: Can you confirm that you 
are aware the monthly repayment for the loan youre currently applying for is £180 per 
month? Mr A replied: Yes 180 per month, yeah. If Mr A had not thought that he was 
applying for a loan then I would have expected him to question what he had just been told.
Later actions of Mr A
Unfortunately, Mr As later actions also appear not to be consistent with those of a person 
who had believed they had not signed up for a loan, or whose payments would reduce to 
£20 per month after three months.  
In their letter responding to Mr As complaint, Carnegie observed that Mr A had paid £180 
per month until September 2020 when he had been offered a payment holiday due to his 
employment circumstances changing. They said the first time Mr A had called them was in 
January 2020 to advise that he was struggling to make a payment as he had had a big bill to 
pay and was helping his mother with the household finances. There was no mention in 
Carnegies letter of Mr A having referred to being told hed only need to pay £20 per month 
after three months. Carnegie said Mr A had first mentioned this in 2021.
Mr A hasnt challenged Carnegies timeline, so I can only assume that he did not mention in 
either January 2020 or September 2020 anything about his payments being higher than he 
had been told they would be. Had he been told his payments would reduce after three 
months by the salesperson, I would have expected him to bring this up much earlier than it 
appears he did.
I dont suggest that Mr A isnt giving a faithful account of what he remembers the 
salesperson telling him. However, the documentary evidence from the time and his actions 
through 2020 do not support his recollections. My view is that Mr A was aware at the time 
that he was signing up for a loan and would need to pay £180 per month for 43 months. It 
follows that I dont consider the loan was mis-sold.
Carnegies affordability checks
The loan Mr A took out was regulated by the CCA and subject to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) rules for consumer credit, contained within its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC outlines what was expected of Carnegie as a lender, before it agreed to lend to Mr A. 
A key duty under the rules was that Carnegie was required to lend responsibly. I will not repeat exactly what the rules say here, but in summary Carnegie was required to:
Assess Mr As application for a loan to check if he would be able to afford to repay it 
in a sustainable way. Sustainable means being able to make the repayments on 
time and out of income or savings, without having to realise security or assets.
Ensure that its assessment was proportionate to the circumstances, taking into 
account the characteristics of the loan, and Mr As financial situation.
Assess whether the credit commitment Mr A was signing up for would be likely to 
adversely impact his financial situation.
The available evidence indicates Carnegie carried out the following checks (either itself or 
through N):
A credit check.
A discussion with Mr A about his income, expenditure and current situation.
The discussion with Mr A led to the following things being recorded:
He was employed and earning £1,200 per month.
He was living with parents, who covered most of the household bills.
He was paying £300 per month, either as rent or a contribution to the household.
He had no children/dependants.
He had travel and food shopping expenses of £50 each per month.
Overall then, Mr A was recorded as having income of £1,200 per month and expenditure of 
£400 per month, leaving £800 available from which to make the proposed loan repayments 
of £180 per month for 43 months. 
I think Carnegies checks were proportionate to the circumstances. The loan repayments 
were not trivial, but they were also not very large compared to Mr As reported income, so I 
wouldnt necessarily have expected a lender to carry out highly detailed affordability checks 
or to verify the information it was given. I would, however, have expected it to get an idea of 
Mr As outgoings, which Carnegie did by asking him questions about these via N.
Mr As self-reported expenditure didnt seem implausible for a person living with their 
parents, with no dependants. So I dont see an immediate reason for Carnegie to have 
questioned this or to have asked, for example, to see bank statements to verify the figures.
I think Carnegie would have considered, based on the results of its proportionate checks, 
that Mr A would be able to afford to make his repayments in a sustainable way. So I dont 
take the view that it lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr As financial situation took a turn for the worse some months later, and appears to have 
deteriorated further during the coronavirus pandemic. The result of this was that Mr A had 
difficulties making his repayments. This is unfortunate, but it doesnt mean Carnegie was 
wrong to have agreed the loan in the first place. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman