DRN-3584017
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) provided him with an unaffordable 
loan. 
Background
Zopa provided Mr S with a loan of £10,000.00 in June 2021. This loan had an APR of 28% 
and an 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £17,579.07, which 
included interest and charges of £7,579.07, was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of 
£292.98.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Zopa unfairly provided this 
loan to Mr S as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. Zopa disagreed 
with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr S complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Zopa provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Zopa to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr S ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In practice this meant that 
Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr S declared that he was 
earning £40,000.00 a year. Zopa also determined that once Mr S expenditure was deducted from his income hed be left with just under £900 in disposable income each month. In its 
view this left Mr S with enough to be able to make the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what Zopa has said. But the credit check it carried out showed Mr S 
was significantly indebted. And on top of this Mr S was right at his credit limit on more than 
one of his revolving credit accounts. So the disposable income arrived at for Mr S didnt 
really tally with someone with his credit file. 
Bearing in mind all of this, I think that Zopa ought to have carried out further checks in 
relation to Mr S expenditure in order to address the mismatch between what the credit file 
was showing and the monthly disposable income amount arrived at, before it agreed to 
advance these funds. I say this while especially mindful that the purpose of this loan was 
recorded as other and therefore theres no suggestion that Mr S might have used the 
proceeds of this loan to consolidate his existing debts. 
As I cant see that Zopa did take further steps to verify Mr S expenditure, I dont think that 
the checks it carried out before providing Mr S with this loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Mr S would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told Zopa that Mr S would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
Its clear that a lot of the back and forth on this case has centred on whether Zopa knew or 
ought to have known that Mr S had taken out a £25,000.00 loan with another lender around 
7 or so weeks before this one. I dont know if Zopa was aware of Mr S £25,000.00, the 
records of its credit checks suggest, but I dont think that this doesnt matter too much 
anyway.
I say this because Zopa was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan 
repayments without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And Ive 
carefully considered all of the information provided in light of this. 
Having done so, its clear to me that Mr S was struggling to manage his existing 
commitments, even without the £25,000.00 loan being included. Mr S never existed his 
overdraft and the information Ive seen clearly shows why this is the case. So I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown Zopa that Mr S was likely to use this loan for 
unsustainable purposes and that he would more likely than not use borrowed funds to make 
the payments to this loan.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Zopa to the fact that Mr S was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way. So I 
dont think Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.
Did Mr S lose out as a result of Zopa unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr S has paid and is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Zopa 
did wrong.
So I think that Zopa needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, Zopa should put things right for Mr S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made, whether to Zopa or any other party, should be deducted from 
the new starting balance  the £10,000.00 originally lent. If Mr S has already repaid 
more than £10,000.00 then Zopa should treat any extra as overpayments. And any 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement;
if an outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, Zopa 
should set up an affordable payment plan with Mr S. I would remind Zopa of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in the event Mr S is 
experiencing financial difficulty, when arranging such a plan; 
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Zopa recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give    
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Zopa Bank Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman