DRN-3449484
The complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd have irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr T was approved for two NewDay credit cards which I will refer to as A and B. NewDay
increased the credit limits on both cards, which I have detailed below.
Card A  approved April 2015, with an initial £250 credit limit:
July 2015 £250 to £550
April 2016 £550 to £700
December 2016 £700 to £1,100
Card B  approved June 2016, with an initial £300 credit limit:
October 2016 £300 to £700
Mr T complained that NewDay had irresponsibly lent to him. He said he was already
struggling with payday loans and external lending when NewDay increased his credit limits.
NewDay did not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
NewDay said that when Mr T applied for A, Mr T had declared an income of £17,500, other
household income of £17,500 and unsecured debt of £100. They said that while there were
defaults showing on his credit file, the latest default had happened 31 months prior to his
application.
NewDay said when Mr T applied for B, he had declared an income of £21,000 and
unsecured debt of £2,100. His last default was showing as 46 months old. NewDay said Mr
Ts accounts were sold to a third party debt management company in April 2018. Mr T
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. He said that the lending for A was affordable for
the initial credit limit and the first increase to £550, but the increase to £700 should have
raised further checks as Mr Ts credit limit had nearly trebled from account opening. Our
investigator said Mr T was either around his credit limit or over his credit limit most months
on A.
Our investigator said if further checks had been completed based on this and Mr Ts
previous poor credit history (his defaults), then NewDay would have seen that Mr T had
taken three payday/short term loans within six months of the increase and two loans within
three months of the increase.
Our investigator said that the numerous borrowings Mr T was opening may be indicative of
someone suffering financial difficulties. So as NewDay would be aware of these issues if
they did further checking, then the decision to approve B should not have taken place. Our
investigator said that NewDay should refund any charges and interest Mr T had on A from
April 2016 and from the opening of B, to reduce the outstanding balance if there was one.
He also said that if this results in a positive balance then the positive balance should be paid
to Mr T with 8% simple interest added to this balance. He also said that NewDay should
remove any adverse lending NewDay recorded on Mr Ts credit file.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that while two payday
loans were showing prior to the increase in April 2016, these accounts were in good
standing, so they didnt feel this would have a bearing on their decision to increase the credit
limit as they dont decline people for credit based on the number of payday loans theyve had
in the past, but they would consider if Mr T had defaulted on payday loans in the past 12
months or if he was in arrears on the payday loans in the previous six months.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Mr T, NewDay needed to
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable
for him. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks NewDay have done
and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Acceptance for A - initial credit limit:
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did when initially approving Mr Ts
application for A. Ill address the credit limit increases later on. NewDay said they looked at
information provided by credit reference agencies and information that Mr T had provided
before approving his application.
Im satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as the
information showed that Mr T had external borrowings of only £100 when he was approved
for A. Mr T had declared annual income of £17,500 at the time, so it would appear that the
initial credit limit may be affordable for Mr T as the initial credit limit was only £250.
But thats not all NewDays data showed. The data also showed that Mr T had adverse
credit data in the form of four defaults. So NewDay would have been aware that Mr T had
previously not maintained his agreements  on more than one occasion. But the data also
showed he had no accounts in arrears, no repayment plans and that the adverse credit data
was over two and a half years old.
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may
often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender
wont offer borrowing. Here, NewDay considered the information that Mr T had on his credit
history and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
July 2015 credit limit increase for A - £250 to £550
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ts credit limit. I can see that Mr T had incurred a overlimit charge early on when A had been
approved. This may suggest that Mr T may not be managing his credit limit effectively here.So Ive looked at the data NewDay had around the time to get a broader sense of how Mr T
was managing his finances prior to his credit limit being increased.
The data shows that Mr Ts external debt is very low. There were no external accounts he
had here showing arrears, there were no new defaults or new adverse credit information
showing against his credit file. As the decision to increase Mr Ts credit limit was made only
three months after they accepted his application, then little appears to have changed during
this period. So I am persuaded that despite the overlimit charge, the increase from £250 to
£550 would be affordable and sustainable at this time, therefore Im satisfied the checks that
NewDay made prior to increasing Mr Ts credit limit here were proportionate.
April 2016 credit limit increase for A - £550 to £700
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Mr
Ts credit limit, after he asked them to. I can see that since the last increase, Mr T had
incurred an overlimit charge on four occasions in the nine month period. Although the data
was limited previously, given the timeframe from account opening to the credit limit increase,
this may suggest that Mr T may not be managing his credit limit effectively here.
Although he hadnt exceeded his credit limit in the two months prior to the increase, this is
still a worrying trend. So Ive looked at the data NewDay had around the time to get a
broader sense of how Mr T was managing his finances prior to his credit limit being
increased.
NewDays data shows that the month prior to the increase, Mr T had two payday loans. And
both of these had been opened in the prior three months. While this on its own may not
suggest a modest credit limit increase might be unaffordable, Im persuaded that a
combination of factors such as the new credit limit being nearly treble the initial limit, the
overlimit fees, the four previous defaults Mr T had (for relatively small amounts  the total of
the four defaults was £1,800) and the two payday loans should have prompted NewDay to
carry out further checks as part of a proportionate measure when increasing the credit limit 
especially as Mr T was himself asking for a higher credit limit this time. As this suggests
despite the recent payday loans, he was still struggling to manage his finances.
So I asked Mr T if he could provide his credit file to see if this gave an indication of any
financial difficulties. This shows that from December 2015 to 8 April 2016, that Mr T had
opened at least ten short term loans/payday loans (four in December 2015, one in January
2016, one in February 2016, two in March 2016 and two in early April 2016), before Mr T
asked NewDay to increase his credit limit later in April 2016.
Im persuaded that this shows Mr T was under a lot of financial difficulty to keep taking these
loans to make ends meet and if NewDay had looked closer into Mr Ts credit file as part of a
proportionate check, based on the aforementioned factors, then they would have realised
that even a modest increase to As credit limit would not have been affordable for him. Im
persuaded that for these factors, NewDay should not have increased the limit on A to £700.
Acceptance for B - initial credit limit:
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did when initially approving Mr Ts
application for B. NewDay said they looked at information provided by credit reference
agencies and information that Mr T had provided before approving his application.
But Im not satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate here. I say this as
the information showed that in the 14 months since Mr T had opened A, Mr T had gone from
having three accounts to eight accounts. The underwriting comments on the applicationstate that he has a high indebtedness  and I agree with this. Mr T had shown by this point
(as covered off under As credit limit increase) a high reliance on short term borrowings.
As I mentioned previously, due to a number of factors, Im persuaded that as part of a
proportionate check, that NewDay should have looked into Mr Ts credit file in a lot more
detail to see how Mr T was obtaining credit and how often. Mr T had taken a £3,500 loan out
in May 2016 (so after the last credit limit increase on A and two months prior to this
application). But even though Mr T took this loan out in May 2016, he was still relying on
taking out short term loans. Mr T took out a further loan in June 2016.
So in the six month period from December 2015, to when Mr T had been accepted for B, he
had taken out at least 12 forms of credit (which would average out at two a month). This
should be a clear indicator that Mr T was experiencing financial difficulty and Im persuaded
that if NewDay had seen this information, then they shouldnt have approved B for Mr T.
October 2016 credit limit increase for B - £300 to £700 and December 2016 credit increase
for A - £700 to £1,100
As Im persuaded that B should not have been opened, then Im satisfied that the credit limit
for B wouldnt have happened if B wasnt opened. But Ive still looked at Mr Ts financial
circumstances from when he was accepted for B to October 2016.
Mr T had taken out another loan in July 2016 and he also opened a new credit card with a
third party provider, from when B was opened to when NewDay increased his credit limit on
B for the last time. NewDays affordability data for B, shows that Mr T went from having
£2,199 in credit card total balances in August 2016 to £7,240 in just one month  September
2016  the month prior to NewDay more than doubling Bs credit limit.
Im satisfied that based on the factors of why As credit limit increase to £700 and Bs
acceptance was not affordable or sustainable for Mr T, then this increase would put Mr T in
an even worse position as his credit card balances in total had more than trebled in the
month prior to his limit being increased.
In December 2016, as the credit limit increase for A was increased by more than 50%, only
just two months after Bs credit limit had more than doubled  and within three months of his
credit card total balances more than trebling, then Im also satisfied that this should not have
been approved for the previous reasons. Mr T also incurred an overlimit charge on B in the
month prior to Decembers credit limit increase for A, which indicates further problems
maintaining credit. So it follows, I intend to ask NewDay to put things right for Mr T.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr T accepted my provisional decision. NewDay said they had no further 
information to add to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask NewDay Ltd to buy back the debt from thedebt management company they sold Mr Ts debt to and contact him to put in place an
affordable repayment plan;
Rework the account for A, refunding all interest and charges that have been applied to any
balances above £550. They should also refund all interest and charges applied from the date
B was opened to the date of settlement;
If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mr T, and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a credit balance to
the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Ts credit file relating to his NewDay credit cards and
ask the third party debt management company to do the same.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd should settle the complaint in line with the instructions in 
the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman