DRN-3148215
The complaint
Ms D and Mr W complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined to pay out the full 
value of their home insurance claim.
What happened
Ms D and Mr W suffered a burglary during which the thieves took a number of pieces of 
jewellery. Ms D and Mr W made a claim to UKI under their home insurance policy.
UKI have already paid out for most of the jewellery that was stolen and Ms D and Mr W are 
happy with this. There have been some delays organising valuations and payments and UKI 
have made compensation payments to Ms D and Mr W in respect of complaints made about 
their service.
Ms D and Mr W are now happy with most of the claim which has already been settled.
Part of the claim was for a necklace and bracelet which Ms D and Mr W had purchased 
while on holiday abroad some years previously. UKI asked Ms D and Mr W for details about 
these items and I understand pictures and descriptions were supplied to UKIs expert. UKI 
then chose to supply a replacement necklace and bracelet, but Ms D and Mr W were 
unhappy with the quality and weight of the replacement items.
UKI have taken these two items back and have offered Ms D and Mr W a choice of a cash 
settlement for the necklace and bracelet of £3,993.75, or a credit of £5,325 to spend with 
their supplier. They say they are following the terms of their policy which restrict the amount 
they will pay out to the value they would pay to replace them though their own supplier.
Ms D and Mr W are unhappy about this because they feel they cannot replace the items with 
new ones of the same quality. They want UKI to pay out enough for the necklace and 
bracelet to be replaced as new with items of the same quality.
UKI have asked for a receipt or valuation of the two items but Ms D and Mr W have been 
unable to supply these despite contacting the original supplier.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think UKI 
needed to do anything more. They accepted UKIs point that it was Ms D and Mr Ws 
responsibility to provide the value of the items stolen, so they thought it was fair for UKI to 
pay out the value of the items in line with the policy terms. 
Ms D and Mr W asked that an Ombudsman review their complaint, so it has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms D and Mr W feel strongly about how the claim has been assessed and Id 
like to reassure them that while I wont be responding to each and every point, I have read 
all their submissions.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms D and Mr Ws policy document sets out how UKI settle claims for household contents
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
make a cash payment.
We won't pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
Ms D and Mr W make the point that the policy wording also says
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full cost 
of the item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
They say that this means UKI must pay to replace the items with ones of the same weight 
and quality as the ones that were stolen, but UKI also say that the policy document states
For any claim you must:
Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of 
ownership or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You 
will have to do this at your own expense.
From the information I have, I can see that UKI have attempted to replace the items from the 
information they had, but Ms D and Mr W rejected these items as not being of the right 
weight and quality. So UKI offered Ms D and Mr W credit with their supplier up to the value 
they believed the items would cost, or a cash settlement for the equivalent of UKIs cost.
It seems clear to me that Ms D and Mr W have not been able to provide UKI with a valuation 
for the necklace and bracelet that were stolen. I think that UKI have acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions, so Im not going to ask them to 
do more.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman