DRN-2734601
The complaint
This is a complaint brought by Mrs G, and the estate of the late Mr C. The complaint is that 
Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Nationwide sold 
PPI to Mrs G and the late Mr C in 2001; and solely to Mrs G in 2007. 
What happened
This complaint is about two monthly-premium PPI policies which covered a mortgage. The 
2001 policy covered Mrs G and the late Mr C for unemployment only. The 2007 policy 
covered Mrs G for accident and sickness only. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mrs G has said that Nationwide pressurised her into taking the PPI, and she was made to 
feel she would otherwise not be accepted for a mortgage. 
I must assess things on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is more likely than not to 
have happened. But the person bringing the complaint needs to present reasonable 
evidence on which I can base that decision. It would be unfair to make Nationwide prove it 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
And the problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said  nor can I know how much I can 
fairly rely on Mrs Gs memory of the details of this, given that it was so many years ago. 
It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, 
even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having and it is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to 
making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less 
acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to 
say Nationwide did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G and the late Mr C, in the technical sense of 
telling them it had assessed their situation and was recommending the PPI as a good fit. It 
was instead presenting the PPI as something to be considered. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It would have been for Mrs G and Mr C to decide 
whether it was suitable. And this was the situation again in 2007 when the PPI was just for 
Mrs G. 
But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in the circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as 
Mrs G and Mr C received employer benefits, and potentially for longer. So it would have put 
off the time when they would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put them in a more 
secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness (for the 2007 
policy) or unemployment (for the 2001 policy). 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs G (and in 2001, the late Mr C) took the PPI. I dont see that 
fuller information would have made the PPI seem less useful, and so is unlikely to have 
affected whether they took PPI. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely this would have made a difference to whether Mrs G and Mr C took the PPI. Either 
they wouldnt have been affected, or these features are unlikely to have put them off. 
In saying this, Im grateful to Mrs G for sharing with me information about her medical 
condition in 2007, and the very difficult personal circumstances she experienced. I asked her 
about her medical condition because the 2007 policy didnt cover her for claims if a pre-
existing medical condition persisted or recurred in the first 12 months of the policy. But 
Mrs G said that her condition was being treated with medication and she hadnt by then 
taken time off work because of it. Although I cant be sure, I think its unlikely that full 
information about this exclusion would have led to Mrs G rejecting the PPI. I dont think its 
likely shed have thought herself likely to need to claim in those first 12 months, given the 
medication she was taking, and she would in any case be covered for other medical 
conditions during that time. 
My overall conclusion is that I dont have strong enough evidence to decide that these PPI 
policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2021.
 Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman