DRN-3350784
The complaint
Mr M complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr M with loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate 
repaid
1 07/10/2018 £3,500 12 months £411.85 15/02/2019
2 18/04/2019 £2,400 18 months £226.92 19/08/2019
3 10/12/2019 £1,200 12 months £140.53 27/05/2020
When Mr M complained to 118 118 Money it didnt agree it had done anything wrong so he 
brought his complaint to this Service.
Our adjudicator didnt think shed seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about any of the loans 118 118 Money had provided.
Mr M disagreed and he asked for an ombudsman to review the case so the complaint came 
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to 
think about when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Before agreeing to 
lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should 
include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy 
itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were 
done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a 
borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally 
to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the 
fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered 
the following questions:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did 118 118 Money then make a fair lending 
decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
118 118 Money asked Mr M some questions about his income and did its own checks, 
which included obtaining information about his credit history. 
For loan 1, 118 118 Money recorded a figure of £2,750 for Mr Ms take home pay and told us 
it did its own background checks to verify this amount. Allowing for Mr Ms declared 
accommodation and living costs (£450) and Mr M spending around £60 on insurance and 
£300 on his current credit commitments, 118 118 Money worked out that Mr M should have 
ample spare cash left in order to make the monthly repayments for this loan  bearing in 
mind hed also told 118 118 Money that he would be using the loan to repay other 
outstanding debt. 
118 118 Money could see that Mr M had a high level of debt and a recent track record of 
taking out loans. I think this was potentially worrying information, especially bearing in mind 
that Mr M was living with his parents and so he had only limited responsibility for meeting 
some of the usual household costs like rent or mortgage out of his take home pay. I think 
118 118 Money shouldve realised that the information it had gathered looked to be at odds 
with what its credit checks showed. 
To my mind, this shouldve alerted 118 118 Money to the risk that it couldnt safely rely on 
what Mr M had told it about how he spent his money. In these circumstances, it would have 
been reasonable and proportionate for 118 118 Money to have done more before lending to 
Mr M to ensure it had a proper understanding of his financial situation. So I cant fairly say 
that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr M. 
But that isnt enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. Ive 
seen nothing and havent been provided with any information to suggest that further checks 
to verify what Mr M was saying wouldve shown that loan 1 wasnt sustainably affordable for 
him. And I cant see that Mr M gave 118 118 Money any indication that his finances were causing him serious money problems during his application for loan 1. This leads me to 
conclude that I havent seen enough to be able to uphold loan 1. 
Mr M repaid loan 1 early and a couple of months later he applied for loan 2. His 
circumstances were broadly the same and the information 118 118 Money saw about his 
credit history and current levels of borrowing at the time again makes me think it shouldve 
realised it needed to more in-depth checks. 
Although 118 118 Money didnt do any further checks, I've been able to look at bank 
statements from Mr M which I think give a useful insight into his overall financial situation at 
the time. I think its fair to say that Mr M was making significant use of his overdraft but that 
he seemed to be well within his arranged overdraft limit. And overall, I havent seen anything 
in the information available to me which shows 118 118 Money should have decided not to 
agree this loan had it done so. 
Bearing in mind that this was a smaller loan than loan 1 and the monthly repayments would 
be significantly less, on balance I think our adjudicator was right to say there isnt enough 
evidence to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint that loan 2 wasnt sustainably affordable.
But I think things had changed by the time Mr M was applying for loan 3. Even though Mr M 
had repaid loan 2 early and loan 3 was the smallest amount hed applied to borrow from this 
lender, I think there were some worrying signs that shouldve caused 118 118 Money to think 
more carefully about lending a third time to Mr M. His living arrangements were the same but 
he told 118 118 Money he was now spending a lot more on servicing his debt. And the credit 
checks that 118 118 Money obtained showed a substantial increase in the loan balance now 
outstanding and his total indebtedness. 
I think this shouldve prompted the lender to do more in-depth checks because it didnt look 
like 118 118 Money had a proper understanding of Mr Ms financial situation given the 
contradictions between what Mr M had said (or omitted to say), the amount of disposable 
income 118 118 Money thought he had and the record of borrowing its own credit checks 
revealed.
I think 118 118 Money needed to do more to understand why Mr M was still taking out so 
much credit and, in particular, whether it was a sign that he was facing problems managing 
his money. 
Keeping in mind that 118 118 Moneys checks needed to be borrower focused, I think it 
needed to do more to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Ms overall financial situation to 
be satisfied he could afford the loan. 
To help me understand what proportionate checks would likely have shown I've looked at 
Mr Ms bank statements from around this time. 
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
118 118 Money had calculated, in reality Mr M was often struggling to his keep his bank 
account in credit - despite loans worth more than £1,200 having been paid into his account 
the previous month. He was paying around £40 arranged overdraft fees each month and he 
seemed to be stuck at this level and making no inroads into repaying his overdraft.
His bank statements show that he was repaying expensive high cost loans taken out with 
multiple other lenders as well as servicing his other debts. By my reckoning, in the month or 
so running up to Mr M applying to 118 118 Money for this loan he had already paid more 
than £1,800 to other creditors. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mr Ms 
monthly income - around two thirds of his take home pay  that 118 118 Money couldnt reasonably say that it was likely he would be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way on 
top of all his other credit commitments. 
To sum up, I think a proportionate check would have shown that loan 3 wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Mr M and so 118 118 Money shouldve realised it was unfair to lend to him and 
it shouldnt have provided this loan.
The fact that Mr M was able to repay the loan early doesnt mean that he was able to do so 
in a way that was sustainable  so this doesnt affect my overall view.
As Mr M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
118 118 Money did wrong. So, I think 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M some other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress over and above 
what I've set out below.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr M and 118 118 Money have confirmed they accept my provisional decision so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision to confirm acceptance. As no further 
comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change what 
I think about this case, I still think its fair to partly uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
he borrowed when he took out loan 3. 
But he has had to pay extra for lending that shouldnt have been provided to him  which 
isnt fair or reasonable.
118 118 Money should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given 
loan 3. The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M.Whilst its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 118 118 Money should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 3 and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman