DRN-2704318
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint against Interactive Investor Trading Limited (IITL) is, at present, mainly 
about resolving fair compensation to him. It relates to errors committed by Alliance Trust 
Savings Limited (ATSL) in the course of executing, in 2019, his instruction to transfer his 
share holding in Frontera Resources Ltd (FRL) into certificated form. IITL has undertaken 
responsibility for ATSL and is the respondent to the complaint.
What happened
Mr M has summarised the key facts as follows:
His ATSL account was previously jointly held. Upon instruction given to ATSL in 
March 2017, it removed the joint account-holder from the account in April 2017  
leaving Mr M as sole account-holder  and it confirmed this to him.
The FRL holding was bought in October 2017.
On 2 January 2019 notice was sent to Mr M saying that in December 2018 an event 
within FRL had led to suspension of its shares on the Alternative Investment Market 
(AIM).
[A sample copy of the notice has been shared with this service. It says that FRL had 
a month from the announcing the event/issue to address and resolve it, as a matter 
of AIM listing requirement, if the suspension was to be lifted; if that was not done it 
says FRLs listing would be cancelled; the notice gave the option to have a share-
holding certificated and said the recipient had to confirm a decision by 17 January 
2019; the notice also referred to the  last trading price, being 0.29 pence 
(£0.0029) per share for the FRL shares.
Mr M confirmed his instruction to transfer his holding into certificated form before the 
deadline. He also says an account statement produced a month later confirmed that 
the value of his holding as of 5 January 2019 was £2,153. Thereafter, he was away 
from the country until his return in March 2019.
Upon his return, he noted that no certificate for his holding had been received. He 
then had to liaise between ATSL and the registrar for the shares (Computershare) in 
pursuit of having the certificate issued. In doing so, he learnt (from Computershare) 
that the holding had been registered in the previous joint names (not in his name); 
that it had received an incorrectly completed request from ATSL for the transfer to 
certificated form and had asked ATSL for a rectification notice in order to proceed; 
that it had not received a response from ATSL; and that it then ceased its role as 
registrar for the shares on 13 March 2019.
Mr M complained about the matter. In ATSLs response of 20 August 2019 it accepted that it 
had made errors in asking for the transfer in joint names and in its administrative mistake 
during the application process; it apologised for this and said it did not receive 
Computershares rectification request; it referred to its ongoing efforts to resolve the matter 
through FRLs new registrar but mentioned problems in this respect; and it apologised for its 
poor service to Mr M and offered him £150 compensation. In response, Mr M said he was 
happy to receive the payment but he considered that the matter of compensation for his 
shareholding loss remained outstanding.
Mr M says he was left, and remains, without the certificate for his share-holding, without any 
rectification of the fact that the holding is wrongly in joint names and without the opportunity 
to realise the value of the holding before its listing ceased  hence his claim for loss.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He reflected ATSLs concessions of error 
and, initially, he agreed with Mr Ms claim for financial loss in the holding. IITL then re-stated 
that the holding had no value at the point of his instruction in January 2019. It argued that 
the error thereafter, during application for the transfer-to-certificate (and any impact on that 
from the joint names error), was meaningless to the notion of liquidating value from the 
holding because it had no value at the time. The investigator agreed, revised his view and 
concluded that IITL need not do anything more than the £150 payment. 
Mr M did not accept this outcome and he questioned being left in a position where his 
transfer-to-certificate issue remains unresolved. He also said that he has evidence in the 
account statement showing that his holding had value in January 2019, despite IITL now 
arguing otherwise and despite the investigator agreeing with IITL. IITL has been unable to 
explain why the statement says what it says. The investigator has suggested that the 
statement probably refers to the value of the holding as of when the shares were last in 
trading, not as of after the suspension of the shares.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same concluding views as those expressed by the 
investigator. I consider that ATSLs responsibility for the errors it committed are beyond 
dispute. I note that IITL initially sought to raise such a dispute but that appears to have 
resulted from ignorance of how ATSL had already addressed Mr Ms complaint. In any case, 
IITL now appears to have acknowledged ATSLs responsibility for the errors. 
IITL has also confirmed  in its email to this service of 22 October 2020  that it will cover 
the costs to Mr M of pursuing and obtaining a new certificate for the holding through FRLs 
new registrar. It makes the point that the shares still belong to him, so he has that as a firm 
basis upon which to obtain the certificate. This point appears to omit the concern that Mr M 
has maintained  that is, the shares were bought in joint names when they should not have 
been; they appear to remain, wrongly, in joint names, so resolving this will necessarily be a 
part of resolving the wider transfer-to-certificate. I agree with Mr M and I consider that IITLs 
offer to cover his costs in obtaining the certificate covers the overall costs of doing so in the 
correct form, including resolving the joint names issue. 
The relevant costs are yet to arise, so it would be premature to consider this as a complaint 
issue. It could become a complaint issue if IITL reneges on its undertaking to cover the 
costs. Hopefully that does not happen, but if it does Mr M retains his discretion to raise it as 
a new complaint issue at the relevant time.
Mr M has, understandably, expressed dissatisfaction about the idea that he is now faced 
with the task of resolving a problem that ATSL created. I consider that the £150 trouble and upset amount covers this aspect of his trouble and upset. It is not clear if, despite ATSLs 
previous problems in liaising with the new registrar, he wants IITL to continue to assist in this 
respect. Asking IITL to do so is also at his discretion  but I note that it is not clear whether 
(or not) IITL will agree  otherwise he can seek alternative professional assistance, if 
required, or he can pursue the matter himself. 
I consider that the above would be a matter for Mr M to discuss with IITL, especially with 
regards to whether (or not) IITL will also cover the costs of alternative professional 
assistance  its present undertaking is not clear on this. Any foreseeable concerns he might 
have in this respect would also be premature to consider presently as a complaint issue, 
because such a discussion has yet to happen. He retains discretion to raise any problems 
from such a discussion as a complaint issue at the relevant time.
The matter that remains is Mr Ms claim for financial loss. It is perhaps unhelpful that a 
statement was sent to him referring to value in his holding as of 5 January 2019. However, I 
agree with the investigators view on the matter. I quoted above a part of the contents of the 
sample notice letter of 2 January 2019. It refers to last trading price and it is more likely 
(than not) that the statement Mr M received referred to his holdings value in the same 
context. 
We have been referred to evidence confirming suspension of the FRL shares before and by 
the time Mr M instructed the transfer-to-certificate. That meant his holding could not be 
traded on the exchange at the time and, given that FRLs listing subsequently ceased, the 
holding could also not be traded thereafter. In real terms, this meant (and means) the 
holding  which could not be sold  held no value; and I have not seen evidence of 
alternative value in any form of secondary or alternative market, if at all such a market 
existed at the time. No financial loss to Mr M appears to have been caused by ATSLs 
errors.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I find ATSLs/IITLs responsibility for the errors committed in 
relation to Mr Ms FRL share-holding and I consider that the £150 payment (for trouble and 
upset) that appears to have been agreed with him is fair, but I do not uphold his claim for 
financial loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman