DRN-4441361
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. A representative (the CMC) is assisting Mr T 
with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr T bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded with a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, Mr T alleges that the supplier misled Mr T into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. Initially our adjudicator thought 
the complaint should be upheld. However, after Ikano sent in additional submissions, he 
thought that the complaint shouldnt be upheld as there wasnt sufficient evidence that the 
system was mis-represented to Mr T. 
Mr T disagreed. Through his representative he said: 
Our adjudicator had made an error in assessing the case based on Mr T not retaining 
the sales documents, but his submission was that he wasnt given any.
The fact that Mr T hadnt raised concerns sooner shouldnt be used against him as 
he has 6 years to raise a claim. He contacted the CMC within 3.5 years of the sale, 
after seeing an advert that he could make a claim. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, I have been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr T could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr T and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. And 
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that neither Ikano nor Mr T have been able to provide much 
paperwork from the time of sale. Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a 
decision based on the available evidence  that includes Mr Ts testimony and any other 
documentation either party have been able to submit as well as the wider circumstances. 
Mr T (through his CMC) said, in his letter of claim, that he was led to believe that the system 
would pay for itself within five to six years. This would be due to the income he would receive 
from the power generated by the system and savings made on his energy bills. He said he 
believed he would get £300 a month in FIT payments and £900 a year in savings on 
electricity bills. 
More recently Mr T said the following. He reiterated that he believed his finance payments 
would be covered by the benefits provided by the system and that he wasnt provided with 
any documents setting out the benefit. He said that no specific benefit figures were 
mentioned, and benefits were spoken about in a global basis and that his finance payments 
would be redeemed within seven to eight years. 
So, Mr Ts testimony isnt particularly consistent  the time period within which the supplier 
supposedly told him the system would pay for itself has changed. He also earlier broke down 
the benefit figures he was assured he would get, but now says no specific benefit figures 
were mentioned but rather discussed on a global basis. I have to bear in mind that memories 
can fade over time and Mr Ts testimony is the only evidence brought in support of this claim. 
I would add that, if there was a specific representation that a consumer had relied on that 
convinced them to enter into such a substantial purchase, I would expect a consumer to 
remember that  as thats what drove the purchase. 
In order for me to uphold this case, I would need to be satisfied that the salesperson did 
more than make generalist comments about how well these solar panels usually perform  
or that they promoted the system to him - thats the nature of selling items. Id need to be 
satisfied that the salesperson made a specific misrepresentation about Mr Ts system, and 
that he relied on this misrepresentation and bought the system on that basis. Im afraid that 
doesnt appear to be the case here. 
Ive also thought about the other evidence available in this case. Ikano has provided a 
sample document used by this supplier which does show it set out the benefits and costs 
clearly to its consumers  and this made it clear that the system would not be self-funding.
As explained above, neither Ikano nor Mr T have been able to provide the documents 
related to this sale and the supplier stopped trading in 2020. I understand Mr T says he was 
never given documents rather than he hadnt retained them. However, while that may be the 
case, the sample documents do give us an indication as to the suppliers sales practices and 
it does look like, in some cases at least, it did make the cost and benefit clear. 
Ive then gone on to think about the wider circumstances of this case. I understand that the 
supplier was trading for a number of years after the sale of Mr Ts system, and Ive seen no evidence that Mr T raised this with either the supplier or Ikano until 2022. I think if Mr T was 
genuinely disappointed with the benefits he was receiving and expected the benefits to cover 
the cost of the system, when this didnt materialise, I would have expected him to have 
raised this and Ive seen no evidence that he did. While I understand the CMCs comments 
that a consumer has six years to raise a claim, considering the significant sums Mr T says 
he was promised, that he hasnt received, I would have expected him to have raised 
concerns sooner than he did. 
I also have to bear in mind that, outside of Mr Ts very testimony, there is no other evidence 
from the time of sale that, the supplier was promoting the systems as being self-funding 
when Mr T bought his system.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ts testimony, bearing in mind this is the main evidence 
Mr T has submitted. But having done so, Im not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence 
here that the system was mis-represented to Mr T on the basis it would be self-funding or 
that Mr T relied on a statement like this, and this was the main reason he purchased the 
system. Each case is decided on the individual merits of that case, and on balance, I think 
the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me 
to uphold this complaint.
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. But considering Ikano says it didnt pay any commission and I 
havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an 
unfair relationship under section 140.
Ive also thought about Mr Ts claims that Ikano didnt carry out sufficient credit checks and 
the supplier applied pressure to convince him to buy the system. As Ikano has explained, it 
looks like it did do a range of automated checks, Mr T has maintained payments for a 
number of years since the sale and has never contacted Ikano with any affordability 
concerns. So there doesnt seem to be any evidence the loan was unaffordable. And 
pressure can be subjective, and Mr T hasnt said anything that makes me think undue 
pressure was applied. So, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint for these reasons. 
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr T 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Ikanos decision to not accept the claim was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman