DRN-2293436
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Amigo Loans Ltd applied missed payment markers to his credit file 
rather than a default. 
What happened
In January 2014, Mr M took out a loan with Amigo. The loan was for £4,000 payable over 12 
months, the monthly repayment being £412.33 at an annual percentage rate of 49.9%. The 
loan was secured by way of a guarantor. 
Mr M very quickly had difficulty in meeting his repayment commitments. And in May 2014, 
Amigo sent him a default notice. Amigo by sending the default notice made Mr M aware of 
the steps he needed to take to bring his account up to date. In 2015, Amigo obtained a 
county court Judgement against Mr M for the outstanding arrears on his account.
But Mr M says Amigo didnt update the credit reference agencies with the details of his 
default. And theyve only added details about the loan from May 2016. Mr M said this has 
meant his credit history has been affected for longer than it should have. He said the default 
record if it had been added at the correct time would have been removed from his credit file 
in 2020. He complained to Amigo.
Amigo said they had reported Mr Ms account to the credit reference agencys as late 
payments as this was more beneficial to him than having a default marker on his account. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Amigos response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Amigo should have recorded Mr Ms account to reflect it had 
defaulted. 
Amigo didnt comment on the investigators finding so Mr Ms complaint has been referred to 
an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issued principles for the reporting of arrears to
credit reference agencies. This requires lenders to report data that is fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date. And says when a consumer is at least three months 
behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to 
be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments.
The term 'default', when recorded on a credit reference file should be used to refer to a 
situation when "the lender in a standard business relationship with the individual decides the 
relationship has broken down".
And I think this is what happened between Mr M and Amigo. The loan was approved in 
January 2014, but Mr M only made one initial payment before cancelling his direct debit. I 
can see from March 2014 Amigo tried by a variety of channels to contact Mr M. They told 
him his account was in arrears and what he needed to do to bring his account up to date. 
But Mr M didnt bring his account up to date and continued to miss payments. In May  2014, 
Amigo issued Mr M with a default notice.
A default notice gives the consumer not less than 14 days to bring their account up to date. 
But if the consumer fails to do so a default is likely to be recorded on their credit file. The 
default remains on the consumers credit file for a period of six years from the date its 
registered.
Having a default registered on a consumers credit file is likely to impact their ability to obtain 
credit, or the terms or cost of their borrowing. It suggests the consumer hasnt been able to 
manage their finances. It can cause them difficulty in getting mainstream lending for quite 
some time.
But as outlined above the data held on Mr Ms credit file should be a fair and accurate 
reflection of his circumstances. As Mr M didnt meet his repayment commitments after 
February 2014, Id have expected Amigo to register his default not before he was three 
months in arrears but before he was six months in arrears. And if the default had been 
added by the point Mr M was six months behind in his payments, September 2014, the 
default record would by now no longer be showing on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr Ms financial situation may have improved over the six years from when Amigo issued 
him a default notice and I dont think its fair that adverse information is held longer than 
necessary on a consumers credit file. By registering the default as outlined above Mr Ms 
credit file would now no longer show a record of the default. 
Amigo continued throughout 2014 to contact Mr M. And in 2015 they obtained a CCJ. A CCJ 
is recorded on the Register of Judgements, Orders and Fines and will show on Mr Ms credit 
history also for six years.
 My final decision
I uphold this decision. And ask Amigo Loans Ltd to remove any adverse data theyve 
recorded about Mr Ms loan from his credit file, as the default if it had been applied in 2014 
would mean the six years of recording would have expired. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman