DRN-4399141
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In April 2023, bad weather caused damage to Mr B and Mrs Bs property, destroying the 
front porch area. They boarded up the front door and contacted UKI to tell them about the 
damage and lodge a claim. UKI arranged for a surveyor (B) to visit the property and assess 
the damage. 
In their report, B noted the porch shared a roof across to their adjoining neighbour, who had 
left their porch area open. Mr B and Mrs Bs porch area had been enclosed to form the 
porch. The debris from the porch had been removed prior to the visit, but B assessed the 
damage by reference to the neighbours construction. B noted four rotten posts along the 
bottom edge of the porch, which they thought led to wind getting under the porch roof and 
lifting it off. The half-brickwork and UPVC framed glazing had been demolished and also 
removed as it was part of an unstable structure following the incident. Based on their 
findings, B concluded the damage was caused by the natural breakdown of materials, which 
wasnt covered under the policy.
Unhappy at the decline of their claim, Mr B and Mrs B complained to UKI. As well as UKI 
declining their claim, they were unhappy at not receiving a call back from UKI theyd 
requested shortly after notifying them about the damage.
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they maintained the decision to 
decline the claim on the grounds the damage was due to natural breakdown of materials. 
They referred to Bs report findings the posts at the bottom of the porch had rotted, with the 
wind getting under the porch roof lifting it off. While agreeing there were storm conditions at 
the time of the incident which contributed to the damage, UKI didnt think the storm was the 
sole cause of the damage. UKI also referred to the policy terms and conditions that excluded 
cover for wear and tear and damage caused by rot or that happened gradually.
Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy at UKIs final response and that UKI hadnt addressed the 
part of their complaint about not receiving a call back. UKI issued a second final response in 
which they apologised for not calling back and awarded £25 compensation. However, they 
maintained their decision to decline Mr B and Mrs Bs claim, for the same reasons as their 
first final response.
Mr B and Mrs B then complained to this service. They were unhappy at UKI declining their 
claim, saying the storm caused the damage to their porch. As longstanding policyholders, 
they thought UKI should at least contribute towards the cost of repairs. They were also 
unhappy at not receiving the call back UKI had promised to discuss the outcome of their 
complaint and didnt think the compensation offered by UKI was sufficient for the poor 
service theyd received.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI had acted fairly in declining the 
claim. He agreed there were storm conditions at the time of the incident but agreed with the 
findings in Bs report about the state of the porch prior to the incident. So, the storm wasnt 
the main cause of the damage. He noted Bs findings that the main support beams to the 
porch had rotted away over time and the barge boards and decorative panels were in poor 
condition. So, the porch structure was weak and had it been in a good state of repair the 
damage would not have been likely to occur.
On the failure of UKI to call back and not replacing the damaged front door, the investigator 
concluded it wouldnt have been reasonable for UKI to replace the door until theyd accepted 
the claim. He couldnt see UKI had assessed the damage to the front door under the 
accidental damage section of the policy, so this would be something for Mr B and Mrs B to 
raise with UKI. He thought £25 compensation for poor service was fair and reasonable. 
Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said they didnt accept Bs conclusions about the cause of the 
damage (and wouldnt sign the declination form at the time of the inspection). While they 
accepted the porch needed attention, it didnt collapse on its own and the storm contributed 
to the collapse. The storm had caused other damage to two external doors and a window 
(from falling porch beams) and their policy included accidental damage. They also provided 
photographs of the porch roof beams, which they said showed they werent rotten. The other 
beams to the floor werent the cause of the damage. Theyd also had quotes for work to be 
carried out on the porch prior to the storm, and they didnt think at that point the support 
beams were rotten enough to cause them any concerns. They felt strongly UKI should at 
least contribute to the cost of repairing the damage.
Mr B and Mrs B also disagreed about the £25 compensation awarded by UKI being fair, 
given the time, phone calls and stress involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr B and Mrs B.
The main element of Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint is that UKI unfairly declined her claim, on 
the grounds that the bad weather at the time of the incident wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the condition of the porch, particularly 
the [vertical] support beams. UKI say they were rotten, which allowed the wind to lift the 
porch roof and cause damage. Mr B and Mrs B acknowledge the porch needed some work 
but say the roof beams werent rotten and the storm contributed to the damage, so UKI 
should at least contribute to the cost of repairing the damage. Mr B and Mrs B are also 
unhappy at the £25 compensation offered by UKI for the service provided, in particular not 
calling them back when promised.
While these are the two main issues in the complaint, Ive noted what Mr B and Mrs B have 
said about other damage in addition to the porch, mentioning two doors and a window 
damaged from the porch being damaged. They say this should be considered as accidental 
damage under the policy.
However, from what Ive seen, this hasnt been considered by UKI and isnt covered in their 
final responses, which focus on the decline of the claim for damage to the porch and the service provided. That being the case, it isnt something that falls within the scope of this 
decision, so Ive not considered this issue further. I think it something Mr B and Mrs B should 
raise with UKI and, if they arent happy with their response, they should consider raising a 
separate complaint, with UKI in the first instance.
Coming back to the main issues of the complaint, Ive first considered UKIs decline of Mr B 
and Mrs Bs claim for damage to their porch. As the damage occurred during bad weather, 
Ive considered the issue as we would for cases involving storm damage. In doing so, there 
are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response UKI accept there were storm conditions at the 
time of the incident. Reports from the weather service used by this service indicate dry 
storm conditions and a peak gust of 54mph two days before the date of the incident (at the 
nearest weather station, 12 miles from Mr B and Mrs Bs property). UKIs case notes refer to 
the same weather data on the same date.
There are local variations in weather and data from weather services is derived from 
individual weather stations in specific locations. Together with UKIs acceptance there were 
storm conditions at the time of the incident, Ive concluded the evidence available indicates 
storm conditions at the time of the incident.
Moving to the second question, the porch roof was lifted up during the incident, which B says 
was a result of the wind getting underneath the open part of the porch roof. This left the 
structure unstable, so Mr B and Mrs B took it down. Damage to roofs, including porch roofs, 
is damage wed expect to see in storm conditions, particularly storms involving high winds. 
And given Bs conclusion the wind lifted the porch roof, Ive concluded the damage is 
consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm. 
The third question is therefore key, given declined the claim on the grounds the cause of the 
damage was natural breakdown of materials. In other words, their view is that the bad 
weather only highlighted existing issues with the porchs condition, in particular what they 
say were the rotten vertical posts supporting the porch. So, the bad weather wasnt the main 
or dominant cause of the damage (it was the pre-existing condition of the porch).
Ive considered this issue carefully, including the points made by Mr B and Mrs B together 
with those from UKI and the report from B. Ive also looked at the photographs of the 
damage provided by Mr B and Mrs B, including the damaged porch and other areas, as well 
as the photographs taken by B during their inspection.
Taking all these things into account, Ive concluded UKI have acted fairly in declining Mr B 
and Mrs Bs claim. I know this will be disappointing to Mr B and Mrs B, so Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
Ive looked at Bs report. The key findings and conclusions are as follows:
the party wall post is rotten and not attached and this has been [the] cause the 
open point of claim. All the posts along the bottom which were four are completely 
rotted at the bottom which [is] when the wind got under the roof it has lifted the roof 
right off and there is not a lot to hold the structure together. The half brickwork and 
upvc has been demolished and cannot be inspected as this has been removed and it was part of the unstable structure. The barge boards to the facia and the decorative 
panels to the gable end are in poor condition.
The report notes the following claim settlement outcome:
The claim has been declined in full.
When the surveyor inspected the porch he observed the damage was caused by 
Natural breakdown of materials
Looking at the photographs, they show rotting posts, which is consistent with these findings. 
Mr B and Mrs B dont accept Bs conclusions. However, Ive noted they accept the porch 
needed attention and had quotes for work to be carried out on the porch prior to the storm. 
They dont think at that point the support beams were rotten enough to cause them any 
concerns.
However, while they may not have had concerns, as the evidence indicates the posts were 
rotten, I think its reasonable to conclude this would have compromised the strength and 
integrity of the porch. Which would have made high winds more likely to then lift up the porch 
roof. Mr B and Mrs B have provided photographs of the porch roof beams, which they say 
show they werent rotten. Looking at the photographs, I accept that looks to be the case. But 
this didnt prevent the roof lifting off, so I dont think its relevant. It was the rotting vertical 
posts that weakened the structure, making it easier for the wind to lift the roof, not the roof 
beams immediately under the roof. 
Mr B and Mrs B also say the porch didnt collapse on its own and the storm contributed to 
the collapse. I agree the storm contributed to the collapse, but the question here is whether it 
was the main or dominant cause of the damage. Given the condition of the support posts, I 
dont think thats the case. Had the support posts not been rotten, I think the roof would have 
been much more likely to have resisted the wind. 
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause 
of the damage to the porch.
In their final response, UKI refer to the following policy wording, in the Policy conditions 
section, where theres the following exclusion under the heading This policy doesnt cover:
x Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear
Maintenance and routine decoration
Damage caused by rot
Any damage caused gradually...
Ive also considered the general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or 
loss under a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the 
damage or loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time 
of the incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think 
its reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
But where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as UKI have 
done by citing the above exclusion  the breakdown of natural materials that happened 
gradually - then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think UKI have done so in the circumstances of this case.So, Ive concluded UKI acted fairly in declining Mr B and Mrs Bs claim.
Moving to the second main issue, the service provided by UKI and their not calling Mr B and 
Mrs B back, looking at the case notes provided by UKI, it appears Mr B and Mrs B were told 
theyd get a call back shortly after they first notified UKI about the damage, in April 2023. 
This issue wasnt covered in UKIs first final response, which Mr B and Mrs B were unhappy 
about (as well as the response confirming the decision to decline the claim). 
UKI considered this issue further, issuing their second final response upholding the 
complaint about not receiving a call back and awarding £25 compensation. 
Having considered the circumstances of this case, including my conclusion UKI acted fairly 
in declining Mr B and Mrs Bs claim, I think £25 compensation for UKI not having called back 
on one occasion is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking UKI to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman