DRN-3047087
The complaint
Mr G complains he has been charged interest by MBNA Limited despite accepting a 0% 
promotional rate. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G applied for a credit card with MBNA that came with a 0% promotional 
interest rate for 26 months. Mr G has explained he intended to use the credit card for 
purchases he needed to make for building work. 
After Mr G used the card and made purchases he found interest was being applied to his 
outstanding balance and complained. 
MBNA didnt agree Mr G had been incorrectly charged as the promotional rate he applied for 
only applied to purchases made within 60 days of the card opening date. Mr G has told us 
he didnt realise the promotional rate only applied to purchases made in that time limit and 
that the information was buried in the small print. Whilst MBNA didnt agree it had made any 
errors, it refunded a total of £381.51 as a gesture of goodwill and applied an interest waiver 
for around a month. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought MBNA had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr G 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr G said the 60 day limit for intertest free purchases was 
buried in the small print of his credit agreement with MBNA. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but 
I disagree. MBNA has provided examples of its literature, advertising the promotional 
interest rate. The promotional information includes the 60 day notice period on its front page, 
along with the relevant interest rate. 
Ive also looked at the credit agreement Mr G accepted. On the front page, where the 0% 
fixed interest rate for 26 months is set out it confirms that applies to purchases made within 
the first 60 days. I havent found anything that shows the information was buried in the small 
print of the credit agreement or terms Mr G accepted. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but Im satisfied the 60 day limit to the 0% promotional interest 
rate was clearly displayed on both the promotional literature and credit agreement he 
accepted. I havent found grounds to tell MBNA to refund the remaining interest Mr G paid. 
MBNA refunded interest as a gesture of goodwill. As I havent found anything that shows 
MBNA misled Mr G or treated him unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman