DRN-3121887
Complaint
Ms A has complained about Bank of Scotland Plcs (trading as Halifax) changes to its 
overdraft pricing structure, its withdrawing of her overdraft and the subsequent adverse 
information recorded on her credit file.
Background
Weve already explained why we cant look at Ms As complaint regarding Halifaxs changes 
to its overdraft pricing structure. So this decision is only looking about what happened from 
2018 onwards and whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in withdrawing the facility and 
recoding adverse information on Ms As credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms As complaint. She thought that Halifax hadnt treated 
Ms A unfairly. Ms A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Ms As complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Halifax sent Ms A a number of letters during the course of 2018 to 
explain that she was over the agreed limit on her overdraft. And in October 2018, Ms A got in 
contact to say that she was having difficulty repaying what she owed. Once a lender is told 
that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed 
expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and then 
assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Ms A, Halifax agreed to stop adding interest, fees and 
charges to her overdraft and also put her on a three-month repayment plan. This was to 
provide some breathing space while more appropriate longer-term options were explored. 
This plan couldnt be a long-term solution in itself because it wouldnt reduce the overdraft 
enough to repay it within a reasonable period of time. 
In any event, by December 2018 it became clear that Ms A was struggling to maintain the 
plan and Halifax was sending letters to let her know that shed fallen behind. I know Ms As 
representative said that further offers went on to be refused by Halifax. But I dont think it 
would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue ignoring Ms As obvious and 
apparent difficulty, that a previous plan had already failed, or most importantly that the 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. 
So while Ms A might not have wanted Halifax to withdraw the overdraft, and I understand 
why shes unhappy with adverse information being recorded on her credit file and worried 
about the impact this will have, I would have expected Halifax to have taken corrective action 
anyway. After all, while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse 
information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain 
protections in relation to the overdraft debt. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Halifax did exercise forbearance and due 
consideration when Ms A got in contact in 2018 and it offered appropriate temporary relief. 
However, when it became clear Ms As difficulties were longer-term and temporary short-
term measures were no longer appropriate, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Halifax to begin the process of taking corrective action in relation to Ms As overdraft when it 
did and issue a correctly addressed formal demand notice, offering Ms A the opportunity 
bring her account up-to-date before it would take any action. 
I know Ms As representative says that some of Halifaxs correspondence and contact was 
harassing. And I can certainly understand why receiving correspondence titled formal 
demand for payment when you may be in a position where you cant pay, would seem 
intimidating. But I think it was more a case of Halifax trying to provide as much opportunity 
as possible for the account to be brought up to date to avoid the potential consequences of 
not doing so, if possible.  
As this is the case and Ms A didnt, or more likely couldnt, take steps to comply with the 
formal demand for payment, Im satisfied that Halifax was entitled to withdraw the overdraft 
and take the subsequent action it did. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Ms A unfairly 
or unreasonably in terms of its handling of Ms As overdraft from 2018 onwards. And this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing 
for Ms A. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman