DRN-4287256
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent 
irresponsibly when it approved a loan in her name. 
What happened
Mrs G has explained that when she first spoke with Everyday Loans she discussed a loan of 
£1,000 over a 12 month term. But when Mrs G visited Everyday Loans to complete the 
application shes told us the advisor persuaded her to apply for a higher amount of £3,500 
over two years. 
Everyday Loans says that when the advisor was discussing the loan of £1,000 with Mrs G 
they found multiple credit cards and commitments on her credit file and suggested she 
consolidate them to one debt to reduce her overall outgoings. As a result, Everyday Loans 
completed an application for £3,500 with a view to Mrs G repaying debts with several 
creditors. 
During the application process, Everyday Loans asked Mrs G to provide two months bank 
statements and a payslip. Everyday Loans used Mrs Gs earned income, benefits and rent 
she receives from a tenant to reach her monthly income figure. Everyday Loans says it took 
information about Mrs Gs outgoings from her and also applied baseline living expenses from 
the Office of National Statistics to assess her expenditure. Everyday Loans says Mrs Gs 
loan for £3,500 was approved in line with its lending criteria and that a credit agreement, 
confirming the total amount repayable of £6,639.60, was signed by her. 
Earlier this year, Mrs G complained that Everyday Loans had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved the loan in December 2021. Everyday Loans issued a final response on 2 May 
2023 but didnt agree it had let irresponsibly. An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Gs 
complaint. They didnt think Everyday Loans had made a mistake when approving Mrs Gs 
loan and didnt uphold her case. 
Mrs G asked to appeal and said that before shed attended the meeting she had been 
accepted for a loan of £1,000. Mrs G says Everyday Loans had instead given her a much 
higher loan over a longer term. As Mrs G asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Mrs G has explained that when she first discussed a loan with Everyday Loans she only 
wanted to apply for £1,000 over a 12 month term. But Mrs G says the advisor persuaded her 
to take a higher amount. I take Mrs Gs point, but Everyday Loans has explained the loan 
was increased in order to repay some of Mrs Gs other debts with a view to bringing down 
her monthly outgoings. So whilst that meant Mrs Gs borrowing with Everyday Loans 
increased along with the term and monthly payment, the loan was intended to reduce Mrs 
Gs outgoings overall by repaying various debts she had at the time. 
Ive looked at the information on file from all parties to see whether Everyday Loans carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to see whether repayments were affordable before 
approving the loan. Everyday Loans has provided a copy of Mrs Gs credit file it obtained 
during the application process. I can see the debts Everyday Loans included in the 
application feature on Mrs Gs credit file. So Im satisfied Everyday Loans was aware of what 
Mrs G owed elsewhere as well as the debts that were intended to be consolidated to the 
new loan and factored that in when reviewing the application. 
Everyday Loans also asked Mrs G to provide bank statements and a payslip to verify her 
income. Ive reviewed the information on file and Im satisfied Everyday Loans used an 
accurate income figure when assessing her application. I havent seen anything that shows 
the income was inflated or incorrect. 
Mrs G says Everyday Loans used inflated expenditure figures when assessing her loan. But 
Everyday Loans final response explains it uses ONS data to provide a baseline figure for 
outgoings which are then verified against information in the application. I appreciate that 
means some outgoing figures used were from the ONS data, but Im satisfied that was a 
reasonable approach when assessing Mrs Gs loan application. 
Once Everyday Loans approved the loan application it was up to Mrs G to decide whether to 
proceed. I accept that the loan amount was higher than originally discussed, but Im satisfied 
Everyday Loans made the amounts repayable and monthly payments clear in the credit 
agreement. Im satisfied Mrs G was given the necessary information before deciding whether 
to proceed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs G but Ive reviewed the application information Everyday 
Loans had available and Im satisfied it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. I 
havent been persuaded that Everyday Loans lent irresponsibly in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman