DRN-3223653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their porting application and 
delayed their sale and purchase. They ask that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they paid and compensates them for missing the stamp duty holiday deadline.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F applied to Santander in May 2021 to port their mortgage and take out 
additional borrowing. They received an agreement in principle (AIP) in April 2021. However, 
Santander then declined their application saying the amount Mr and Mrs F wanted to borrow 
wasnt affordable. Santander didnt include Mrs Fs income when assessing affordability as 
shed received Government support under the self-employed income support scheme 
(SEISS) in April 2021, during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs F received a mortgage offer from another lender. However, they say their 
declined application with Santander meant they didnt complete their purchase in time to 
benefit from the stamp duty holiday which ended on 30 June 2021. And they had to pay an 
ERC to Santander.
Our investigator said Santander hadnt treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly. He said it was entitled 
to apply the ERC.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They said, in summary, Santander should have told them at the 
agreement in principle stage that Mrs Fs self-employed status meant it wouldnt lend. They 
say this caused a delay, without which theyd have completed during the stamp duty holiday. 
They said Santander was inflexible and hadnt considered their individual circumstances or 
assessed their income fairly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint falls broadly into three parts. Whether Santander assessed their 
porting application fairly. Whether it caused delays with their house purchase, resulting in 
them paying stamp duty. And whether its fair for it to apply the ERC when they wanted to 
port the mortgage.
Assessment of the porting application
Santander issued an AIP in April 2021. Mr and Mrs F found a property and made a porting 
application on 4 May 2021, via a broker.
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out a stringent affordability 
assessment before offering a mortgage. Santander assessed Mr and Mrs Fs application as 
unaffordable. It didnt include Mrs Fs self-employed income. This was because shed 
received a SEISS grant in April 2021. 
Mrs F says this was unfair. She says their broker told them Santander would base its 
affordability assessment on her income in 2019/2020. Mrs F also said Santander failed to 
consider their individual circumstances when making its decision.
The Covid-19 pandemic affected businesses and individuals and lenders had to consider 
how to take this into account when assessing loan applications. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Santander, in May 2021, to ask for income information that was more up to 
date than 2019/2020. Santanders policy was not to include income in certain circumstances, 
including, at that time, where the applicant had recently taken SEISS support. It says this 
was its policy applied from late April and was made available to brokers.
Mrs F said her income had been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. She received 
a SEISS grant at the end of April 2021. The Government website says that to make a SEISS 
application the applicant must reasonably believe there will be significant reduction in your 
trading profits due to the impact of Covid-19 between 1 May 2021 and 30 September 2021. 
With that in mind, I think it was reasonable for Santander to be concerned that Mrs Fs 
income might be significantly reduced. 
I think Santander applied its policy correctly here. It said it would re-consider the application 
if Mrs F provided bank statements for May, June and July 2021 without grant credits. I 
appreciate this didnt work with Mr and Mrs Fs plans to move quickly. However, if they 
wanted to port their mortgage and avoid the ERC they could have considered this option. 
Mrs F says if shed applied for the SEISS grant a few days later it wouldnt have appeared 
on her April bank statement and Santander would have offered to lend (presumably on the 
basis it was unaware of the grant). However, their broker was asked to confirm whether their 
income was affected by the pandemic and to provide details of any support or grants. Id 
expect this to be answered honestly. 
Each lender has its own lending policies. While Mr and Mrs F were offered a mortgage by 
another lender that doesnt mean Santander made an error or acted unfairly when it declined 
Mr and Mrs Fs application.
Did Santander cause unnecessary delays?
Santander issued an AIP in April 2021. I think it was clear that the AIP wasnt an offer to 
lend, and that this was subject to an application and underwriting assessment. I appreciate 
that Mr and Mrs Fs purchase might have happened sooner if Santander had offered the 
mortgage they applied for. For the reasons set out above, I dont think Santander made an 
error or acted unfairly when it declined Mr and Mrs Fs application.
Mrs F says Santander shouldnt have issued the AIP if her self-employed status meant it 
wouldnt lend. I dont think thats fair. While Santander didnt include Mrs Fs income in its 
affordability assessment, this wasnt because she was self-employed. It was because shed 
received a SEISS grant. Most likely, Santander didnt know this when the AIP was issued. 
I dont think Santander caused any unnecessary delays with Mr and Mrs Fs application. It 
told the broker it declined Mr and Mrs Fs application on 13 May  nine days after theyd 
made their application on 4 May 2021. At that point, Mr and Mrs F had about seven weeks to 
complete before the end of the stamp duty holiday. Mrs F said they wouldnt have looked for 
a property if they hadnt been given the AIP, suggesting this meant they had to continue with 
the sale and purchase. But when Santander declined their application they could have 
decided not to move, or to reapply to Santander later in the year if they wanted to port the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs F decided to go ahead and applied to another lender. They didnt want to incur 
costs, such as search fees, until they had a mortgage offer. This meant legal work had to be 
completed after they received an offer from another lender in early June 2021. They werent 
able to complete in time to benefit from the stamp duty holiday. In fact, Mr and Mrs F didnt 
complete until 29 July 2021  almost a month too late. 
I dont think its fair to say that Santander is responsible for Mr and Mrs Fs decision to delay 
legal searches until they had a mortgage offer, or any resulting delay to their sale and 
purchase. I dont think Santander caused any unnecessary delays when assessing their 
porting application. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to 
compensate Mr and Mrs F for the stamp duty they paid.
Is it fair to require Santander to refund the ERC?
Mr and Mrs F took out a fixed interest rate product in 2020. This included an ERC which 
applied until July 2023. Mr and Mrs F agreed to this when they took out the product. While 
the product was portable, this was subject to Mr and Mrs F meeting Santanders lending 
criteria at the time of the porting application. Unfortunately, they didnt meet Santanders 
lending criteria and their application was declined.
As Mr and Mrs F repaid their mortgage while the ERC applied, Santander was entitled, 
under the terms and conditions, to apply the ERC.
I dont think Santander made an error or treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly. While I know Mr and 
Mrs F will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to 
refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman