DRN-4006131
The complaint
Mr P complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) have unfairly declined his 
claim for accidental damage to a water supply pipe under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr P had a new water meter installed, however, the meter kept constantly spinning 
and the water company informed Mr P that it thought Mr P had a water leak.
Mr P said there was no water damage to the property but informed AA that he 
wanted to get a plumber to investigate where a leak may be coming from.
Mr P made a claim on his policy as the water supply pipe was leaking. Mr P s 
plumber found it to be discharging into the drain. 
Mr P informed AA that hed made a claim for subsidence around 10 years ago and 
he thinks the pipe was damaged at that time, caused by the repair or the subsidence.
AA considered the claim under the insurable peril of Accidental damage and 
declined the claim, as it said the incident was a result of poor installation and 
workmanship leading to gradual operation/wear and tear which wasnt covered under 
the policy.
Mr P raised a complaint to AA however in its final response letter it maintained it had 
fairly declined the claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint and agreed that it hadnt been shown that 
the damage was a result of accidental damage.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, saying that he had evidence from 
professionals which said the issue with the water supply pipe is a result of a patch 
repair done on the drain carried out by AA for a 2012 subsidence claim.
Our investigator considered new evidence Mr P provided in the form of comments 
from his builder and surveyor however she maintained that the claim wasnt covered.
As Mr P disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Ive been asked to consider is whether Mr Ps claim for damage to the water 
supply pipe has been declined fairly. Its important to keep in mind that Mr Ps claim was 
considered by AA under the Accidental Damage part of his policy as this is part of the policy 
that covers underground pipes.
Accidental damage is defined within the policy as Unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden and external means. This isnt an unreasonable definition for AA to 
include within their policy.
AAs appointed drainage specialist says there was no evidence of accidental damage to the 
underground water supply pipe and says that it hasnt been laid as per regulation at a 
shallow of 750mm depth and nor had it been protected with bedding material. So, it declined 
the claim under poor installation and gradual damage from wear and tear.
As I must consider whether Mr Ps claim should succeed under the accidental damage part 
of the policy, Im not satisfied that accidental damage, as set out in the policy definition, has 
been shown by Mr P.
As the policyholder, the onus is on Mr P to evidence he has a claim the policy can respond 
to. Since our Investigator's assessment Mr P has provided further evidence, including a 
technical report that he says shows the damage in question was related to a previous 
subsidence claim and a faulty repair that was carried out previously. So, its clear to me that 
Mr Ps claim here is not caused by accidental damage and Im satisfied AA has fairly 
declined the claim on that basis.
In light of the evidence Mr P has put forward it seems his complaint now centres around 
whether AA or whichever respective insurer, previously successfully completed an effective 
lasting repair 10-11 years prior. 
I consider this to be a new complaint point for AA to consider so I wont address this within 
this decision. I recommend AA review the claim from this perspective to see if it was the 
insurer in 2012 and consider if the repairs carried out at that time were lasting and effective 
or could have been the cause of the damage to the water supply pipe as indicated in reports 
Mr P has supplied. 
If Mr P isnt satisfied with AAs response once it has looked into this element of his 
complaint, then he would be able to bring that as a new complaint to this service subject to 
any usual considerations.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman