DRN-3330522
The complaint
Miss P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund transactions she disputes 
making.
Miss Ps complaint was brought on her behalf by a representative. 
What happened
Miss Ps representative raised a complaint with Lloyds about two transactions, which she 
says Miss P didnt make. 
The details of those transactions are as follows. The transactions in bold are the disputed 
transactions, the other transactions are included as they give wider context around 
undisputed transactions made with the same card.
Date Time Transaction details Amount
14.7.2020 10:42 Card purchase £3.77
14.7.2020 13:39
13:40Balance enquiry
Cash withdrawal £250
20.7.2020 16:57 Cash withdrawal £400
21.7.2020 10:47 Card purchase £7.56
Lloyds reviewed Miss Ps fraud complaint and declined to refund her for the two 
transactions. Lloyds said they couldnt see how someone has accessed Miss Ps card and 
her PIN in order to make the transactions, so they are holding Miss P liable.
Miss P wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint. As part of their investigation they talked to 
Miss Ps representative and asked who had access to Miss Ps card.  
The representative said no one else has access to the property that Miss P shares with her 
sister. She told us the card is usually kept in Miss Ps handbag, and that the only person who 
has access to the card and the PIN besides Miss P is herself (the representative). She is 
given the card to make purchases for Miss P including groceries etc, but that she is given 
the card and returns it after each time she uses it. She said that often she withdraws cash 
and brings back the receipt and change to Miss P. The representative says the PIN isnt 
written down and doesnt know how someone else would know what the PIN is. 
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. In summary they thought it was most likely 
that the transactions were completed by someone Miss P authorised to use her card.
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators opinion, saying:
Only three parties had access to the card and the PIN - Miss P, her sister and the 
representative.
At the time of the transactions the representative was at work so couldnt have 
completed them.
Miss P and her sister were housebound at the time of the transactions due to ill 
health and Covid restrictions, so couldnt have made the transactions.
Maybe the money was taken from Miss Ps bank accounts by mistake, by someone 
not using her card and PIN.
As Miss P didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Miss P liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. Lloyds has 
provided evidence that Miss Ps genuine card was used to make the chip and PIN 
transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Lloyds to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Miss P consented to the transactions being made.
I appreciate that Miss P and her representative are adamant that they didnt carry out these 
transactions, however theyve also told us that no one else had access to the property or to 
the card  which was kept in Miss Ps purse. And theyve said that the PIN wasnt written 
down. 
Miss P suggested that the money mightve been accidentally removed from her account in 
error. But the evidence provided by Lloyds shows that Miss Ps genuine card and PIN were 
used for these transactions and that the chip in the card was read. So, Im satisfied that 
these transactions were carried out by someone using Miss Ps card and were genuine 
transactions made on her account.  
Having reviewed Miss Ps account statement, I can see there were other transactions made 
with the same card before and after the disputed transactions. This meant someone using it 
without her consent, had to take the card without her knowledge and return it without her 
knowledge. And the first disputed transaction happened only three hours after a genuine 
transaction that Miss P isnt disputing. So, someone wouldve had to get the card after the 
genuine transactions were completed, use it for the cash withdrawal and then return it to 
Miss P  all without her noticing.
Also, the evidence shows there werent any failed PIN attempts, so the person using the 
card had to either know the PIN or guess it correctly the first time they entered it. And neither 
Miss P nor her representative have been able to explain how someone wouldve known what 
the PIN was.
Its also worth noting that the person who made the first disputed withdrawal, did a balance 
enquiry. So, they knew the account balance was around £3,000. Usually where a fraudster 
takes a card, they will use it as many times as possible in as short a time as possible and for 
the maximum they can withdraw. They do this because they dont know when the card holder will notice their card is missing and stop it, or notice the unexpected transactions on 
their account. And, both withdrawals were made for less than the daily ATM withdrawal limit 
 so more funds couldve been withdrawn.  
The representative raised a point about whether Miss Ps card couldve been cloned. 
However, there is no evidence to suggest that happened in this case and I dont consider it 
the most likely explanation as to what happened. Cards can be cloned by fraudsters copying 
the magnetic stripe on the back of cards, but I havent seen any evidence of the embedded 
chip being read and the encrypted PIN information being obtained from the chip.
I appreciate the strength of conviction that Miss P and her representative have that Miss P 
didnt authorise these transactions, and I think its most likely that Miss P didnt carry out the 
transactions herself. However, giving her card and PIN to someone to use, gives them the 
authority to transact on her account. And I think this is most likely what has happened here. 
Because based on what Miss P and her representative have told us, Im unable to see how a 
third party couldve taken and replaced Miss Ps card on two occasions without Miss Ps 
knowledge. And there is no explanation for how they wouldve known what her PIN was in 
order to use the card, unless shed given it to them. 
I realise that Miss P is going to be very disappointed, but I think its most likely Miss P gave 
authority to someone else to use her card and PIN, and they completed these transactions. 
Based on that, Im satisfied that Miss P has authorised the transactions and therefore I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to refund her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman