DRN-4035442
The complaint
Miss H complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) caused unnecessary 
delays and did not close her claim after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Advantage are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the broker. As Advantage have accepted it is accountable for the actions of 
the broker, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the broker.
There are several parties and representatives of Advantage involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Advantage.
What happened
On 28 October 2021 Miss H was involved in a collision with a third-party whilst driving her 
car. She made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Miss Hs car was classed as a total loss and Advantage settled her claim in November 2021.
Miss H contacted Advantage in March 2022 to find out if the claim was still open. Advantage 
confirmed it was still open. 
On 10 August 2022 because the claim was still open, Miss H made a complaint about the 
delay and that her claim had not been closed. And that there had been a lack of response to 
two emails that she had sent to advantage earlier in the month. 
Miss H said that Advantage had not used the information she had given it at the time of the 
accident and that it had to ask her for this again in 2022 and this had caused delays.
Miss H said the delay in closing her claim had caused her to lose out on repayment of the 
excess payment she had paid. This was covered by a separate agreement with another 
company.
As Miss H was not happy with Advantage, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and felt there were 
no unreasonable delays caused by Advantage. They said the request for the police report 
was not delayed and that Advantage had acted fairly throughout the claim.
As Miss H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What I provisionally said and why
Miss Hs separate agreement with the other company does not form part of this complaint, I 
can only consider the complaint about Advantage 
In this case the incident took place on 28 October 2021, and I saw evidence that Miss H 
made a call to Advantage from the scene of the incident to report her claim. I saw she gave 
all the information that she could to the call handler, including the name of the third-party 
involved. 
I looked at the evidence provided by Advantage to what activity took place to progress the 
claim to a conclusion.
Advantage said Miss H caused a delay to her claim when she failed to return her car when it 
tried to recover it after the total loss settlement had been paid. 
I saw evidence from December 2021 that one of Advantages approved storage suppliers 
was chasing Miss H to return the car. However the car was not with her. It was actually 
located with another of Advantages approved storage suppliers. 
I saw on 23 January 2022 Advantage conducted a review of her claim file and the correct 
location of Miss Hs car was noticed. Collection was organised and the claim progressed.
I do not think Miss H can be held responsible for any delay on the recovery of the salvage of 
her car.
Advantage have now said after reviewing this further with its suppliers it agreed there must 
have been an admin error. And the delay at the start was not caused by Miss H.
I saw that Miss H contacted Advantage on a regular basis in 2022 and the evidence shows 
Advantage responded most of the time with an update on progress.
I saw in March 2022 Advantage asked Miss H for the details of the third-party again. Miss H 
complains that she had given Advantage the details it needed on the day of the accident. 
She felt Advantage had caused a delay because it asked her again for the same details she 
had already given. 
I saw that Advantage had recorded the details Miss H had given on the date of the accident 
but as these details did not match up to an insured third party it had asked her to reconfirm 
the details to ensure there was no mistake. It also required the police reference number 
which she had not been able to give them on the date of the accident.
Due to the third-party being found not to have motor insurance cover a police report had to 
be obtained. The claim could not be closed without all the information relating to the claim 
being gathered, including the police report being issued, and all the claim related costs being 
collated.
I saw the police report was requested on 31 March 2022, and it was received in mid-August 
2022. I accept that Advantage had no control over the timescales it takes for the report to be 
returned after it is requested. But it could have been requested around two to three months 
earlier if Advantage had not made the admin error around collecting Miss Hs car.
Advantage accepted and apologised that it failed to reply to Miss Hs emails in August 2022 
but said this had not delayed the claim process as actions were still being taken even though 
it had not kept her informed of it. Although I accept this lack of response was frustrating to 
Miss H, it did not cause any delay in obtaining the police report.  
I have seen evidence that Hastings actively took action on Miss Hs claim after receiving the 
police report. And it is entitled to try and recover its costs, before closing the claim. As I found that Advantage did cause unnecessary delays, due to the admin error regarding 
return of Miss Hs car, which in turn delayed the police report being requested and ultimately 
a delay in her claim being closed, I think it should pay her £200 in compensation.
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and intend to require Advantage to pay her 
£200 in compensation for the delay caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H responded to say she agreed with my provisional decision.
Advantage responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss H and Advantage accepted my provisional decision I maintain my provisional 
decision. I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and require Advantage to pay her £200 in 
compensation for the delay caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss H £200 in compensation for the 
delay it caused when progressing her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman