DRN-4406413
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy as he believes Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited invested his funds at a 
higher risk than was appropriate as he closed in on retirement. 
What happened
Mr B through his employer transferred to an Aviva Personal Pension in 2011. His investment 
strategy was the default strategy set by the employer. Mr B received information setting out 
the investment strategy and that the majority of his fund would be invested in a lifestyling (or 
as Aviva called it Lifestage approach). This explained Mr Bs funds would be automatically 
rebalanced to ensure his funds were of the right mix at the different stages through the plan. 
It said the aim was for growth in the early years and then gradually to become more cautious 
as he approached retirement.
The documentation from the time said Mr B could take control of his investments if he 
wished and stop the lifestyling approach at any time. It also explained that if Mr B chose not 
to take his benefits at his original or selected retirement date, the policy will remain invested 
in the funds and proportions appropriate for that retirement date and will continue to 
rebalance the investments to maintain those proportions.
The initial retirement age set on the plan was 55. As Mr B reached age 55 in 2016, Aviva 
sent him a letter to act as a prompt that his retirement date was coming up. This letter said if 
they didnt hear back from him, theyd defer his retirement date by five years. It also said As 
youre retiring later, you might want to review your fund choices. If this is something youre 
interested in, please call us.
Mr B chose not to retire at that point.
Aviva confirmed the change of retirement date to December 2021. 
Aviva also sent Mr B an annual statement for 2017 it stated:
If you intend to change the way you take your retirement benefits or how you invest your 
money, we recommend you speak to a financial adviser to go over your investment choices.
In April 2018, Mr B decided to take drawdown. Aviva wrote to Mr B and in this letter it said 
Its very important you think about where you invest your money. We strongly recommend 
you review your investment choices on a regular basis.
In 2023 unhappy with the performance of his funds, Mr B spoke to Aviva. He complained 
that the funds hed been invested in as part of the lifestyling approach were of a higher-risk 
than they should be. Mr B subsequently switched more of his funds to deposit to lower the 
risk of his portfolio.
Aviva said that they werent responsible for managing Mr Bs fund when it came to 
investment decisions. They also commented that where an investment approach was 
originally designed with an annuity option in mind then investing in gilts meant that even if 
gilt prices fell a customer would still be able to buy approximately the same guaranteed 
income.
It set out the funds Mr B was currently invested in which were:
Aviva BlackRock Over 15 Years Gilt Index Tracker S6 (risk rating 5/7)
Deposit S6 (risk rating 1/7)
The business noted that Mr B regularly visited his online MyAviva account. And on there the 
fact sheets for his funds had always been available to view online. The factsheets detail the 
underlying assets within the fund, and the funds longer term performance as well as the risk 
rating.
In conclusion Aviva said that they hadnt upheld the complaint as they had invited Mr B to 
get in touch with any questions he might have, it wasnt responsible for managing his 
investment selection and it had recommended that he took regulated financial advice at 
regular intervals.
Our investigator looked into matters, but he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
explained that Aviva had administered his plan in line with the terms set out to Mr B. 
He also explained that whilst lifestyling has the intention of taking a more cautious approach 
leading up to retirement. This wasnt the same as de-risking a pension fund. As Aviva had 
previously explained, investment in Gilts can be deemed cautious despite the fund having a 
higher risk rating. Gilts relationship with annuity rates means that poor performance in this 
investment area could still help to protect the customers position at retirement as annuity 
rates will have risen.
Our investigator noted that during his conversation with Mr B, he confirmed whilst looking on 
Avivas portal that he could see the risk rating of his fund(s) and that it was stated there We 
regularly review the ratings we give to each fund. So, they might change from
time to time.
The investigator set out the history of the risk profile of his fund supplied by Aviva. In 
January 2011 it was rated 3/5, from July 2015 4/5 and finally from February 2019 5/7 and 
remarked that the fund itself has never been rated as low risk.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said hed never been informed that the 
risk rating of the fund had increased over time. He said he feels Aviva failed in its duty of 
care. If it was available, it must have been hidden in small print on the portal. And he felt the 
split of the investments 75% in Blackrock Gilts and 25% in deposit was the wrong way 
around.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the recommendation of our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive looked through the terms of the original agreement and the communications between 
Aviva and Mr B and Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly. In the statements coming up to Mr 
Bs retirement it set out the proportions of his investment and what would happen at each 
stage (year) before retirement. The evidence shows Aviva administered his investments in line with what was set out in the terms and in-line with the strategy set out. If Mr B had been 
unhappy with this at any point, it was made clear he could choose to alter his investments  
and he should seek advice.
When Mr B didnt respond to Avivas reminder that his retirement was forthcoming as per the 
terms of the plan  his investment strategy at that time was preserved. Mr B wouldve known 
this from his annual statements, and he could also see details of this in his MyAviva portal 
which I understand he regularly used. Throughout his time with Aviva, he also received 
regular information explaining he should review his investment selection, that it could be 
changed and if he had any questions he could speak to Aviva. And that he should seek 
advice to make sure the funds were suitable for him. Aviva wasnt responsible for his fund 
selection, neither was it able to advise him and take into account his particular needs and 
circumstances. He was in a bespoke default lifestyling approach that worked in a particular 
way for all Avivas customers with that selection. And Aviva was not responsible for Mr Bs 
choice to enter into this investment strategy.
I understand that Mr Bs unhappy that he wasnt informed of the changes in the risk rating of 
the fund. However, there was no requirement for Aviva to actively contact its customers 
every time a fund they were invested in had a change. They had informed Mr B through the 
portal that he checked, that risk ratings could change. Aviva has also confirmed the risk 
rating of his funds wouldve been visible on the portal. And Mr B also confirmed to us in a 
call with our investigator that the risk rating was shown on the portal. 
We dont have access to the portal and so I cannot be sure exactly what Mr B wouldve seen 
historically, however Aviva like most providers produce fund factsheets and a risk rating will 
have been (and is) one of the key pieces of information provided  I suspect this same 
information is what is shown on the portal. Furthermore, the annual statements pointed Mr B 
in the direction of Avivas website where it held information about its funds such as the fund-
factsheets. So I am satisfied that Mr B wouldve had access to the risk-ratings of his funds. 
And in any event, he also knew he could speak to Aviva or seek advice if he was unhappy 
with his selected funds.
It appears Mr B thought that his lifestyling approach would mean his selected funds would 
reduce in risk. Whereas the actual risk rating of his concluding fund, has over time moved 
from 3 out of 5 to 5 out of 7. But the way in which the lifestyling strategy would become more 
cautious as retirement got closer was clearly set out on his statements. As well as in the 
terms of the plan he received when he first took it out. 
The approach increased the amount of his capital invested in deposit funds as he got closer 
to retirement and the other funds he was invested in were switched in line with the strategy, 
ending with 75% invested in the Aviva Blackrock Gilt tracker in question. That this fund risk 
rating has changed over time does not mean Aviva has done something wrong. The 
investment strategy was clearly set out and adhered to  and it was clearly set out that Mr B 
could chose to move to different funds if he wished to do so.  A strategy moving towards a 
reliance on Gilts is not unusual in lifestyling approaches because of the relationship with 
annuity rates. Aviva couldnt predict the future risk rating of this fund. And it explained it 
could change, its role was to administer Mr Bs investment in line with the investment 
strategy selected at outset  unless Mr B informed it he wished to amend this. Which he 
didnt do so until recently. 
Mr B has also said he thinks the split of his funds 75% in the Gilt Tracker and 25% in deposit 
was the wrong way around. However, as Ive said, he was made aware of the investment 
strategy from the start of the plan onwards and he was also made aware it was his 
responsibility to change this if he wished to do so. So I cannot say that Aviva shouldve 
made changes to this split when it had set out the splits at outset and with clear information how this would change each year.
Unfortunately, the fund in question has suffered a big downturn in performance in the last 
few years and I think this is what has led to Mr Bs complaint. Had the risk rating been higher 
than hed thought, but the fund had performed, I think its fair to say he wouldnt have 
complained.  But poor performance in itself is not a reason to uphold a complaint as funds 
can go up or down and are at the risk of market conditions.
It appears Mr Bs understanding was that the actual funds selected would reduce in risk and 
he may have thought he couldnt suffer losses to the extent that he has. In actual fact the 
investment strategy itself was the mechanism to reduce risk/become more cautious and this 
was not based on choosing lower risk funds  rather a set strategy based on increasing the 
amount of capital held in deposits and Gilts. But market conditions were such that many 
funds have suffered a big down-turn in performance and Gilts have been very volatile 
recently. The upside being annuity rates have improved, hence the strategy to move towards 
Gilts to protect income levels in retirement. 
conclusion
Aviva administered the plan in line with the terms set out, as it is required to do so. Mr B was 
aware his funds even at the end stage of the lifestyling would still be subject to market 
performance and he had access to information about these funds. And Aviva provided Mr B 
with many reminders and access to information that wouldve allowed him to consider his 
investment strategy or to seek professional advice. He chose not to seek advice and 
remained in the default strategy. I do sympathise that his fund will have dropped due to the 
downturn in performance but I cannot fairly hold Aviva responsible for this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman