Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr N complains about the change in the charges on the overdraft of his account with The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). He also complains about the charges and the effect on 
him since March 2020. 
What happened
From information supplied by RBS, Mr N first had the account from September 2004 when 
he was at school. He then applied for it to be a student account in September 2011 and after 
that it became a graduate account for a further two years. RBS has said his account is a 
Select one now. Mr N has had a savings account since October 2009. 
Mr N complained by telephone in March 2021 and he received a final response letter on the 
same day explaining that following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) High Cost 
Review universal changes had been introduced which affected all overdrafts and included 
Mr Ns account. 
The introduction of the new charges was scheduled to be introduced in March 2020 and 
delayed twice  one of the reasons being the Covid 19 national pandemic and lockdown. 
RBS reminded Mr N of his opportunity to apply for a £500 interest free buffer limit. And it 
explained the rationale behind the charges alterations. 
Mr N referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and in his complaint form 
he also referred to the effect the charges have had on him because the Covid 19 pandemic 
led to him having a reduced salary and with the increased charges he was finding it difficult 
to manage. Mr N made it clear that his complaint related to the period from March 2020 to 
date. 
When RBS submitted its files for the second time to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
October 2021 as part of our complaint investigation, to resolve the complaint it offered to 
refund the charges and interest applied to the account since March 2021 which would be off-
set against the debt on the account. 
Mr N rejected this and one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He thought that it was 
fair for RBS to rework Mr Ns account to remove all of the interest and charges added to 
Mr Ns account from 1 January 2021, because by this point, Mr N hadnt been in credit or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time.
DRN-3364392Page 2 of 3RBS made a new offer which was to agree to our adjudicators view and refund the interest 
and charges from 1 January 2021. But it also wished to refund just 75% because RBS said 
that looking at his savings account, as that had been  on average  in credit for a while it 
felt it was fair to offer 75% of the charges and interest from January 2021. And this was to be 
off-set against the existing account debt.
Mr N did not accept that offer to resolve the complaint and felt that the interest and charges 
refund should be back-dated further in time to March 2020.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im find that RBS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 1 January 2021. At this point, 
it ought to have been clear that Mr N was in no position to sustainably repay what he owed 
within a reasonable period. 
This is because, by this time, Mr N was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen 
or maintained a credit balance for an extended period. Ive seen Mr Ns bank statements and 
he was very rarely in credit since this time. He usually had a significant overdraft balance.   
RBSs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for short term or emergency use. So, an 
overdraft shouldnt have been used for prolonged day-to-day expenditure. But as the 
charges only came into play in August 2020 then I do not think that I can uphold Mr Ns 
complaint from a date before the August 2020 date. And I have had to consider the fact that 
from August 2020 to January 2021 a period of time needed to have elapsed for the evidence 
to show whether or not Mr Ns account appeared to be under stress. Hence me agreeing 
with our adjudicator that upholding Mr Ns complaint from January 2021 seems a fair point in 
time. 
However  I do not agree with RBS that because Mr N had some savings in another account 
that it should reduce what it needs to pay by way of refund and interest. That is not 
appropriate in my view. Mr N is entitled to use and place his money where and as he feels 
fit. 
I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part and I think that RBS should do as I have outlined below,.
Putting things right
I direct that RBS re-work Mr Ns current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 1 January 2021 onwards are removed.
AND
if an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been made 
RBS should contact Mr N to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. Page 3 of 3If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ns credit file, it should 
backdate this to 1 January 2021.
OR
if the effect of remo ving all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Mr N, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if 
they were) until the date of settlement. 
If no outstanding balance remain s after all adjustments have been made, then RBS should 
remove an y adverse information from Mr Ns cred it file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax fro m this interest. RBS must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if h e asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint ion part and I direct that The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc does as I have o utlined in the putting things right section of thi s decision. 
Unde r the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman