DRN-3572067
The complaint
Mr M complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He
says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr M is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In November 1993, Mr M was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan. 
At the time, Mr M was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with 
him making a monthly contribution of £109.42 (gross) which was reduced to £97.53 in 
August 2001. The last contribution was paid to the FSAVC plan in June 2018, when Mr M 
transferred his plan to another provider.
In December 2001, while still making contributions to the FSAVC plan, Mr M contracted to 
buy added years through his employers OPS. He paid a total of 4.66% of his pensionable 
salary to buy 4 years 98 days. This was the maximum available under the scheme rules.
In 2018, Mr M complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that:
The FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and as a result of being mis-sold,
hes suffered a financial loss;
The full risks, implications, and alternatives in respect of the FSAVC plan were not
fully and properly explained. And he wasnt provided with a full or descriptive
comparison of benefits between his in-house scheme and the FSAVC plan;
He was unaware that the FSAVC plan had higher charges and he shouldve been
advised to purchase added years through his employers scheme.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr M had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Ms file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2019 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed the following:
Over the period of liability (December 1993 to December 2001), the total 
contributions paid to the FSAVC plan represented 4.56% of pensionable pay. If 
4.56% of pensionable pay had instead been directed to added years, Mr M could 
have purchased added years of 6 years 30 days up to age 60 if working full time 
throughout. However, he had periods of part-time work. This would have reduced the 
number of years that couldve been purchased in 1993 to 4 years 90 days. 
In December 2001, Mr M started an added years contract of 4 years 98 days for a 
contribution rate of 4.66% of pensionable pay. This was the maximum allowed under 
the scheme rules. But because of his part time service during this period, this 
contract will reduce to 4 years 80 days. 
Mr M has not lost the opportunity to purchase additional years of service up to the 
maximum allowable. However, the delay in contracting to purchase additional
years of pensionable service has caused him to pay a higher contribution rate. He 
could have bought 4 years 98 days for 3.20%, so hes paying 1.46% more than he 
would have done since 1993. And the ways the accrual works for part time service, 
he will actually receive 10 days less added years at age 60 than if hed started the 
contract in 1993. Hell receive 4 years and 80 days, rather than 4 years and 90 days. 
Contributions that Mr M could have directed to an added years contract from 
December 1993 to December 2001 have instead been paid into the FSAVC policy. 
The part of the FSAVC fund value that is attributable to contributions that he could 
have paid to an added years contract is a gain that offsets the loss due to the 
additional added years contributions that he is paying subsequently.
Calculations completed as at 1 October 2019 determined a notional fund value of 
£90,134.51, calculated from the transfer value and added interest at Bank Basic 
Rates +1%. There was a further adjustment to represent only 70.19% of the value as 
only the liability period up to December 2001 is considered, which amounts to 
£30,369.01. This value is further reduced to £29,505.69 to account for estimated 
policy future charges.
Assuming that Mr M maintains the added years contract to age 60, Wesleyan state 
that his loss is the value of the additional contributions of 1.46% of pensionable pay 
that he is paying since he commenced the added years contract in 2001, plus the 
value of the lost benefits due to the impact of part time working, less the value of the 
contributions of 3.20% that he paid instead into the plan between 1993 and 2001. 
This results in a loss of £5.113.18, net tax reductions as a higher rate tax payer is a 
redress amount of £3,579.23.
Mr M didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.In summary, Mr M has said that Wesleyan's actuaries have used the value of his own
contributions in the purchase of added years to offset the loss caused by the advice to
purchase the FSAVC. 
On another case - where the actuaries are assisting Mr Ms CMC  the actuaries have said 
that that this is not allowed under the FSAVC Review Guidance. They say the loss 
calculation period is clearly set out in guidance and is stated to be:
The period for loss assessment will end on the earlier of:
1) the 6th April after the investor stopped paying into the FSAVC policy, and
2) the date the investor started paying into the in-house AVC scheme.
Starting to buy added years counts as joining the in-house AVC scheme and
so will end the period of loss assessment.
If the investor starts to buy added years but also continues to pay into the FSAVC
policy, I believe that the period of loss assessment would end when the investor
starts to buy added years (unless the investor can show that the insurer/adviser gave
some subsequent advice, e.g. in connection with a subsequent FSAVC premium
increment).
Mr M states the value of the benefit is outside the loss calculation period and should not be 
applied. Wesleyan was therefore incorrect to state that the loss is simply the differential in 
the cost of purchase caused by deferring the start date of the added years. He says its 
effectively deducting the added years purchased.
I issued my provisional thoughts on the complaint. In summary I said that: 
Having reviewed matters, I didnt think the methodology used for the added years 
side of the calculation was unfair. However, as more than 3 months had passed 
since the calculation was completed, I thought it should be rerun to bring it up to 
date using the most recent assumptions.
I also thought that, had the FSAVC not been mis-sold, its likely that any excess 
contributions Mr M paid (above what would have been required to purchase added 
years, and the contributions he continued to make after joining added years) would 
have been directed to the in-house AVC arrangement, rather than the FSAVC. 
Because of restrictions to what a member could contribute if they were already 
expected to receive the maximum service from their pension scheme, I thought it 
was only after April 2006, when the contribution rules changed, that Mr M would 
have been able to direct these contributions to the in-house AVC. So I said that 
Wesleyan should carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house 
AVC for contributions made after April 2006. If this demonstrates that the FSAVCs 
performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more than the higher charges 
Mr M had paid, then I said it could conclude that he has not suffered a loss as a 
result of taking the FSAVC. However, if a loss is identified, I said that Wesleyan 
should pay Mr M the value of the excess charges.Mr M and his representative didnt agree with my provisional findings. They have said that:
The FSAVC Review Model Guidance (paragraph 6.20.6) indicates that the period for 
loss assessment in this case should end when Mr M actually joined the in-house 
added years arrangement in December 2001.  Wesleyan has actually confirmed this 
on page 1 of its assessment saying Period of liability: December 1993 to December 
2001. 
This means that the actual added years contract (which Mr M took out from 
December 2001 onwards) should not be brought into the calculation of loss, as it 
applies solely to the period after the period to be loss-assessed. During the period 
for loss assessment (lasting 8 years), Mr M has missed out on purchasing added 
years of 1 year and 80 days (i.e. pro-rata, from missing making payments for 8 
years out of a total of 28 years which would have bought 4 years 98 days of added 
years). In effect, the large loss that was incurred from missing buying added years 
during the loss assessment period (from December 1993 to December 2001), has 
been steadily reduced by Wesleyans calculations for each year that they have 
considered after December 2001.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator at that time, told businesses to carry
out a review of some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 1999. The
main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have lost matching
contributions or subsidies that the employer wouldve paid, had an in-house AVC plan
been started instead. 
Mr Ms FSAVC plan didnt fall within the initial scope of the review for which the guidance
was intended. And the guidance wasnt written to address every potential scenario,
particularly those arising some 20 years after the guidance was issued, where action taken
to mitigate loss was taken many years before the complaint was made. And crucially,
theres nothing in the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP)  the rules in the FCA handbook that
set out how complaints are to be dealt with by firms and the ombudsman service  which
stipulates that this guidance must be applied to all FSAVC complaints being raised now,
that didnt fall within the initial scope of the review.
Thats not to say the guidance isnt relevant at all; it does still provide a useful guide, 
particularly when we consider complaints about mis-sold FSAVC cases where its been 
determined that the consumer wouldve joined their employers in-house defined contribution 
AVC scheme. 
When a consumer has lost out financially as a result of something the business has done 
wrong, Id generally expect the consumer to be put back into the position they would have 
been in now, had the business not made the error. So this is what Ive thought about when 
considering Mr Ms complaint.Mr M believes that Wesleyan is using the value of the added years he has purchased to 
offset the loss he has suffered as a result of delaying the purchase of added years. He says 
its calculation takes into account of the added years he has actually purchased since 
contracting to do so in 2001. Instead he believes these years should be discounted because 
they fall outside the period of liability as the guidance states that the period of liability ends at 
the point the investor joins the in-house arrangement. 
However, Im tasked with reaching a decision on what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And while the guidance is useful and relevant in some cases, Im not obliged to follow it. And 
in this case, I think departing from a strict interpretation of the guidance is necessary in order 
to provide Mr M with fair compensation. 
If all had gone to plan, and instead of taking out the FSAVC Mr M had bought added years in 
1993, taking account of part time service, he would be expected to end up with 4 years and 
90 days added years at the age of 60 (December 2021). And he would only have paid 3.20% 
of his pensionable pay for these.  So this is the position, or as close as possible, I think Mr M 
needs to be put in. 
Mr M delayed purchasing added years until 2001 and hes actually contracted to buy 4 years 
98 days, which when reduced for his periods of part time service will mean hes expected 
receive 4 years 80 days at age 60. So hell be 10 days short of the position he would have 
been in had the contract started in 1993. Hes also paid 4.66% for these added years, rather 
than 3.20%. Wesleyan has worked out the redress on this basis, so it calculated how much 
extra Mr M has paid up to the age of 60 and its also calculated the cost of these missing 10 
days.  While this might not be in line with the guidance, I dont think this is unreasonable 
because it ensures the Mr M receives the same at retirement that he would have received if 
the added years contract had started in 1993. 
Instead of the above, Mr M thinks Wesleyan should give him the value of the added years 
his contributions would have bought (1 year and 80 days) between 1993 and 2001 as he 
considers hes lost out on buying these as a result of the delay. But I dont agree hes lost 
out on buying these years. The maximum he could have bought in the scheme was 4 years 
90 days, so hes only lost out on 10 days.  If Wesleyan gave him the value of this 1 year and 
80 days, hed effectively have a benefit equivalent of 1 years and 70 days over the maximum 
he would have been eligible for from his added years arrangement. So I wont be asking 
Wesleyan to provide redress on this basis. I dont think the methodology Wesleyan has used 
is unfair. And I dont think its approach to not apply the FSAVC review guidance in the 
circumstances of this complaint is unreasonable. 
I explained in my provisional findings that I thought the contributions Mr M continued to pay 
towards his FSAVC after he joined the added years arrangement would have been directed 
toward the in-house AVC instead. However, Wesleyan provided information to support its 
stance that this would only have been possible after April 2006 when the pension 
simplification rules came into effect. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided by Wesleyan, I agree that it's likely Mr M would
have been restricted on contributing to the in-house AVC if he was already expected to 
receive the maximum service under the scheme and added years arrangement. This would 
have changed after April 2006 when the pension simplification rules were introduced. So I 
think Wesleyan should complete a comparison of the FSAVC contributions paid after this 
date, with the in-house AVC. And as Mr M transferred his plan to another provider, the 
comparison should be run up to the date of transfer. If this comparison shows a loss, a 
standard charges only calculation should be completed on the contributions paid after April 
2006.Putting things right
In terms of the added years, as at the date of my final decision, Wesleyan should rerun the 
calculation to bring it up to date using the most recent financial assumptions.
In terms of the FSAVC contributions Mr M paid after 2006, if it wishes to do so, Wesleyan 
should calculate a notional value for the excess contributions had they been paid to the in-
house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other half, the average rate from 
fixed rate bonds index. 
I've chosen this benchmark because this would have achieved capital growth with a small 
risk to the capital. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. The FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a higher return. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If the
actual value exceeds the notional value no financial loss has been suffered and it need not 
take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would ordinarily 
be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking this 
particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr M the value of the excess charges as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan
Assurance Society to calculate redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman