DRN-2047254
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy as she thinks she mightve been affected by problems that Santander UK 
Plc were having when sending text message alerts to customers.
What happened
Mrs C complained after reading an article online about issues Santander were having with 
sending text messages to customers. 
Santander explained the problem was that some customers who were approaching an 
unarranged overdraft were getting their text message alerts too late in the day to react. They 
said however that Mrs C hadnt been identified as a customer affected by that issue.
Mrs C remained unhappy so one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator explained that Mrs C wasnt signed up to receive text message alerts as she 
approached an unarranged overdraft. She was only signed up to receive text messages 
when she went into an unarranged overdraft. From the evidence he thought Mrs C hadnt 
been affected by the problem, and that Santander had sent text messages, as requested, 
each time Mrs C went into an unarranged overdraft. 
He went on to say that due to a change in regulatory requirements Santander is now 
sending text message alerts to all customers even if they hadnt previously been signed up 
for them. He also explained that Santander appeared to have the correct mobile number for 
Mrs C according to the last 4 digits she had provided.
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators opinion, and also raised some other complaint 
points about her relationship with Santander, so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin I need to be clear that I am only considering the complaint about the problem 
Santander was having sending text messages. Mrs C was very specific about this complaint 
point when she came to our service, and this is the issue Santander investigated. During the 
course of the investigation Mrs C raised other issues about her relationship with Santander 
which are being addressed separately. 
Mrs C was concerned that shed been affected by the problem with text message alerts she 
had read about. Looking at the evidence Im not persuaded this is the case. 
Santander said the problem with text messages only affected customers who were signed 
up to receive alerts as their account approached an unarranged overdraft. Looking at the 
evidence Mrs C wasnt signed up for those alerts at the time, so this issue didnt affect her. 
For the sake of completeness Santander have confirmed the telephone number they hold for 
Mrs C matches the last four digits she has provided us with, so Mrs C should receive any 
text messages sent. Santander also confirmed they sent Mrs C several text messages when 
her account was in an unarranged overdraft, which is what she was signed up for at the 
time. 
Its clear to me that Mrs C has had troubles with her current account, and Im sorry to hear 
about this. However, in terms of this particular complaint I havent seen any evidence that 
Mrs C was affected by the problems Santander were having when sending out text message 
alerts to their customers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman