DRN-3193730
The complaint
Mr O complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) handled a claim under his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy. Hes unhappy at QICs decision to write off his van following an 
accident, rather than repair it, and at the total loss value QIC offered for his van.
References to QIC include its agents who administer the policy and deal with claims. Mr O 
was supported in his complaint by a representative, references to Mr O include his 
representative.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr O was involved in a collision while driving his van. He contacted QIC to 
report the accident and lodge a claim. The circumstances indicated the other party was at 
fault for the accident. As such, QIC told Mr O that he could either claim against his own 
policy for the damage to his van, or he could engage a separate non-fault service provider 
(E) who would handle the claim and seek to recover all costs from the other partys insurer. 
Mr O chose the latter option.
 
E looked at photographs of the damage to Mr Os van. Based on these they told Mr O that 
the extent of the damage meant that it was likely to be considered a total loss. E explained to 
Mr O that should he want to retain his van he would have to pay the salvage value of the van 
(the disposal value of the van). E arranged for an engineer to inspect the van, in order to 
assess whether it was a total loss. Mr O agreed to await the engineers report before 
deciding how to proceed.
Mr O then decided to revert to the first option, to pursue a claim under his own policy. QIC 
instructed their own approved repairers (B) to collect the van from where it was being stored 
and to inspect it and assess the damage. Based on an assessment of the damage by B, the 
van was declared a total loss. E offered £6,330 as a settlement (less £475 policy excess, a 
net settlement of £5,855). E told Mr O that he could keep his van if he paid the salvage value 
(£1,393). Mr O asked E to repair the van rather than treat it as a total loss, but E said that 
the estimated cost (£10,411) made the van beyond economic repair. But E did review their 
total loss settlement offer, following evidence Mr O provided of values of similar vans, 
increasing it to £8,250 (£7,775 net of the excess). They also revised the salvage value to 
£2,063 (the salvage value being linked to the total loss value). 
Mr O wasnt happy with the settlement offer, so complained to QIC. He said his research of 
similar vehicles advertised for sale indicated a fair value for his van was £10,989 (plus VAT). 
Mr O was also unhappy at the way that his claim was handled, including the number of 
different companies hed had to deal with, as well as the quality of service hed received.
  
QIC considered Mr Os complaint. In their final response they didnt accept Mr Os valuation, 
saying that it wasnt based on comparable vehicles to his own, so they wouldnt increase 
their offer. They also confirmed the salvage value. They also noted that Mr O had given a 
value of £6,000 when he took out his policy. On the handling of his claim and the quality of 
service, QIC noted that the nature of the accident (as well as it being considered non-fault) 
necessarily meant different parties would be involved. QIC apologised if Mr O felt his claim 
hadnt been handled as it should, but concluded theyd handled his claim correctly.
Mr O was unhappy at QICs response and complained to this service. The main elements of 
his complaint were that QIC hadnt offered a fair value for his van, and that his evidence 
supported his higher valuation. He was also unhappy at how his claim had been handled 
and the service received.
Our investigator concluded that it was fair for QIC to treat Mr Os van as a total loss, given 
the estimated cost of repair. He also thought QICs revised offer for was reasonable, based 
on valuations available from recognised industry sources. He also thought QIC handled the 
claim as he would have expected them to and in a timely way. However, he thought QIC 
should have considered Mr Os state of mind more fully when dealing with him, together with 
how the accident would have affected him. The investigator concluded that QIC should have 
shown a greater degree of care to Mr O and, in recognition of the distress caused to Mr O, 
thought QIC should pay him £125 in compensation.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In asking for a review Mr O was unhappy at QICs valuation of his van and didnt 
think it was enough to enable him to purchase a replacement van on a like-for-like basis. He 
was also unhappy at the estimated repair costs and the van being considered a total loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr O.
Mr Os complaint covers several issues, which Ive considered. The two main issues are, 
firstly, the decision to treat his van as a total loss and the value of Mr Os van and whether 
this represents a fair settlement. The second issue is the way that Mr Os claim was handled, 
including the involvement of several parties, and the quality of service provided.
On the first issue, Ive looked at the evidence supporting QICs decision to declare Mr Os 
van a total loss. The report from B estimates the cost of repair to be £10,411. This is 
significantly higher than QICs total loss settlement value and close to Mr Os own valuation. 
Given these figures, I think it was reasonable of QIC to declare the van a total loss, as it was 
beyond economic repair. When Mr O first complained to this service, he was concerned that 
the initial conclusion by E that the van was a total loss was only based on photographs of the 
van and the damage. However, I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
That a detailed assessment and estimate was subsequently carried out and confirmed that 
the van was a total loss, is consistent with Es initial assessment.
Ive considered carefully the evidence provided by both Mr O and by QIC on the value of his 
van as a total loss. While vehicles advertised for sale vary significantly in price, they 
necessarily dont reflect the actual price for which they are sold (which is likely to be lower). 
So Ive looked at data from recognised industry valuation guides for the model of Mr Os van, 
together with its age and mileage. Based on this, Ive concluded that QICs revised (higher) 
offer is in line with the values from the industry valuation guides. So I think QIC have made a 
fair and reasonable settlement offer to Mr O.
On the second issue, how Mr Os claim was handled and the quality of service provided, Ive 
considered carefully the concerns raised by Mr O. Id firstly want to recognise the accident 
will have been stressful for him, particularly as the circumstances indicate he wasnt at fault. Having seen the dashcam footage from Mr Os van, I can appreciate that it was very 
distressing. Ive also thought about the subsequent handling of the claim and how this 
affected Mr O, as hes described to us. For their part, QIC maintain they handled Mr Os 
claim correctly and that the various parties involved have acted professionally and with Mr 
Os interests in mind, looking to settle his claim as expeditiously as possible. Ive also looked 
at the case notes provided by QIC that record their engagement with Mr O (and his 
representative).
 
Taking all these factors into account, I think QIC did seek to deal with Mr Os claim swiftly so 
that a settlement could be agreed that would enable him to obtain a replacement van. From 
the date of the accident to their first settlement offer took ten days. QICs revised offer, as 
well as their final response to Mr Os complaint, took less than a month from the date of the 
accident. I think thats a reasonable length of time. While theres disagreement between Mr 
O and QIC about the value of his van, Ive noted that QIC increased their initial offer in 
response to the information provided by Mr O. As Ive concluded that the revised offer is fair, 
then I dont think QIC acted unfairly towards Mr O in seeking to settle his claim quickly.
However, I do think that their communication with Mr O could have been better, particularly 
given what Mr O (and his representative) have said about the impact on his health. Ive 
thought about this carefully and concluded that £125 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold Mr Os complaint in part. I 
require QIC Europe Limited to:
Pay Mr O £125 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman