DRN-3319208
The complaint
Mr C complains about charges made when he returned a car he had taken on hire purchase 
from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).   
What happened
In June 2017 Mr C entered into a three-year purchase agreement with VWFS. He extended 
the agreement by a further 12 months in April 2020, so that it was due to end in June 2021.
The agreement required Mr C to return the car in good condition, with an allowance for fair 
wear and tear, as defined by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVLRA).
When the car was collected, Mr C says that an inspection was carried out and he was told 
everything was fine. Later, however, he received an invoice for just over £800 in respect of 
damage to the front and rear bumpers and to one wheel. He complained about the charges, 
and VWFS agreed to remove all but one  a charge of £638.98 for a replacement front 
bumper, which VWFS said was cracked.
Mr C referred the matter to this service. As well as disputing that the bumper needed to be 
replaced, he said that the process of collection and inspection had been unfair and had not 
been carried out in accordance with BVLRA guidelines. Specifically, he had not been invited 
to join the inspection when the car had been collected and had not been given an 
opportunity to comment on the evidence until VWFS had issued its final response to his 
complaint. 
The investigator thought however that the inspection report and photographs included in it 
showed that the front bumper  the only item remaining in dispute  had been cracked; he 
thought the charge was therefore reasonable. Mr C did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that the matter be reviewed. He stressed that his complaint was not 
simply about the charge, but also included his dissatisfaction with the process that had been 
adopted.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the hire purchase agreement required Mr C to return the car in good repair and 
condition, except for fair wear and tear. They also required Mr C to indemnify VWFS against 
the costs of repair. 
The inspection report does in my view show a lengthy crack to the cars front bumper. I am 
satisfied that a replacement was needed and that the cost claimed by VWFS was 
reasonable. 
I note what Mr C says about the collection of the car and the way in which he found out 
about the charges. As he says, the BVLRA Code of Conduct includes provisions about 
collection and inspection. For example, the cars condition should be agreed at collection 
and, if that is not possible, the customer should be given a clear reason why. It should be 
explained to the customer that a full inspection will be carried out later, if that is the case. If 
charges are raised, the customer should be told how they can be challenged. 
I can see therefore why Mr C thinks that this Code was not followed. I dont believe however 
that I need to make a finding on that. 
If there was such a failure, it does not follow that VWFS cannot charge for damage to the 
car. In my view, the part of the Code that covers collection and inspection is intended, 
amongst other things, to ensure that processes are fair and to try to avoid disputes. 
The key issue in this case is whether there was damage and whether Mr C has had the 
opportunity to challenge the inspection report. In my view, the inspection report clearly 
shows the damage for which Mr C was charged. It has not been suggested that it was 
incurred after collection, and I do not believe it was. Mr C may not have been given the 
opportunity to agree the inspection report, but he has been able to challenge it and the 
charges which resulted. Indeed, that challenge resulted in a reduction in the charges and a 
referral to this service. Overall, therefore, I dont believe that the alleged failure to follow the 
BVLRA Code has resulted in any unfairness to Mr C.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman