DRN-3658620
The complaint
Mr G complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited mis-sold him a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan.
What happened
Mr G met one of LVs advisers in April 1991, when he was 40 years old and earning £21,500 
per year. Hed been a member of his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) since 
he was 28 years old and his normal retirement age was 65. The adviser recommended that 
Mr G take out an FSAVC plan to top up his benefits at retirement. Mr G contributed £40 per 
month gross from 1 April 1991 until 1 October 2003.
In 2021, Mr G complained to LV about the advice he was given in 1991. LV reviewed Mr Gs 
complaint and agreed his FSAVC plan was mis-sold because he wasnt given enough 
information about the in-house options available to him through his employment. LV says 
Mr G couldve likely bought six added years for a monthly premium of £121 per month over 
15 years. But it didnt think Mr G wouldve chosen this option because he elected only to 
contribute £40 per month grow, didnt increase his contributions at any point and ceased 
contributions in 2003, when he was 52 years old. So, LV said it was likely Mr G wouldve 
joined his employers in-house AVC if hed been given enough information about it. To put 
things right, LV offered to complete a loss assessment on the basis Mr G wouldve chosen to 
contribute to his employers in-house AVC.
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr G referred his complaint to our Service. Mr G believed LV 
has not compensated him on an added years basis because its records from the time of sale 
suggest LVs adviser gave him an indication of how much it would cost him to buy added 
years in his OPS, and he still decided to go ahead with the FSAVC. He said hed been given 
incorrect information about the cost of buying added years, which acted as a deterrent. And 
if hed been given accurate information, Mr G said he wouldve bought added years from his 
OPS rather than joining the in-house AVC. Mr G reiterated he was well paid, likely to 
progress in his career and receive above average salary increases. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint and thought LVs offer to complete a 
loss assessment in line with the FSAVC review was fair. He didnt think it was likely Mr G 
wouldve bought added years from his OPS. Mr G disagreed, adding his wife was also mis-
sold a FSAVC in 1990 and was being compensated on the basis she would have chosen to 
buy added years. And if his wife had been properly advised to buy added years in 1990, 
Mr G would have been more likely to have bought added years if hed been properly advised 
in 1991. So, this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Gs argument he would likely have bought added years in 1991 if his wife had been 
properly advised to buy them in 1990. But Ive not considered a complaint made by Mrs G, 
so I cant comment on whether I agree with the firm that mis-sold his FSAVC that he would 
have bought added years instead of joining his employers in-house AVC. And even if I 
could, it doesnt necessarily follow that Mr G would have made the same choice as his wife. 
Instead, Ive considered what I think Mr G would likely have done based on the evidence 
available about his circumstances at the time the FSAVC was mis-sold. And I note Mr G has 
emphasised his belief that LV has not compensated him on an added years basis because 
its records from the time of sale suggest LVs adviser gave him an incorrect indication of how 
much it would cost him to buy added years in his OPS. But again, I have independently 
considered the evidence from both parties to decide what I think Mr G would likely have 
done had his FSAVC not been mis-sold. So, even if LV was persuaded Mr G would not have 
purchased added years because of incorrect cost estimates, I would still need to consider 
afresh whether I think Mr G would have bought added years or contributed to his employers 
in-house AVC.
At the time of advice, Mr G was 40 years old and would have needed to buy around six or 
seven added years to get the maximum benefit from the OPS. We dont know for sure how 
much each additional year wouldve cost Mr G in his particular OPS. But we know it wouldve 
cost approximately 0.83%) of his annual salary for each added year Mr G couldve bought if 
he were to retire at 65 years old  so, it wouldve cost him around £89 a month to buy six 
added years). It wouldve cost Mr G approximately 1.02% of his annual salary for each 
added year Mr G couldve bought if he were to retire at age 60 when the FSAVC was due to 
mature, so it would have been around £109 a month to buy six added years on this basis.  
But Mr G chose to contribute around £40 per month before tax-relief (1.67% of his annual 
salary in 1991) to his FSAVC. He contributed much less than the likely cost of buying all, or 
even most, of the added years he was eligible for. 
I appreciate Mr G did not need to buy all of the added years he was eligible for. But at the 
time, it would probably have been shown that the projected benefits from the in house AVC  
based on a monthly contribution of £40 gross  would be greater than the benefits of using 
this same contribution rate to buy added years. And If Mr G had bought added years, he 
would have had to give up a set percentage of his salary until retirement, and his  
contributions would have increased in line with his salary over the years. But Mr G chose  
not to increase contributions to his FSAVC in line with his earnings, and I note he stopped 
contributing entirely in 2003.
Taking into account the evidence available, I think its unlikely Mr G would have considered 
added years to be the cost effective or affordable option compared to the projected benefits 
available from investing in the in-house AVC scheme. Considering realistic assumptions of 
future investment experience at the time, it would probably have been shown that the 
projected benefits from making contributions to his employers AVC scheme would be 
greater than the projected added years benefits. This is why, in my opinion, I think Mr G 
wouldve likely chosen to contribute to his employers in-house AVC scheme. 
Further, there is no evidence from the time of the sale that Mr G was unwilling to take any 
investment risks and his general circumstances suggest that he would have been able to 
take some risk. This is why, in my opinion, contributing to the in-house AVC scheme would 
have been suitable for Mr G at the time. Its only now, with the benefit of hindsight, that we 
know that Mr G may have been better off with the added years. And a major factor in this is 
that the investment returns achieved have been much lower than expected. But that wasnt 
anticipated at the time  and I cant use hindsight when making my decision. Given the 
above, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest Mr G wouldve purchased added years 
within his employers OPS. Instead, I think if hed been given sufficient information, its more 
likely he would have chosen to contribute to the in-house AVC scheme. For these reasons, I 
think LVs offer to complete a loss assessment in line with the FSAVC review, on the basis 
Mr G would have contributed to his employers in-house AVC, is fair. Putting things right
LV should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, LV should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20% So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Ive not upheld this complaint because I think Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limiteds made a fair offer to put things right before this complaint 
was referred to our Service to consider. However, when putting things right, Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited should follow the methodology Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman