DRN-2267371
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about their property insurer CIS General Insurance Limited 
because it declined their claim for a garden wall damaged during a storm.
What happened
Following the second storm in around a week in February 2020 Mr and Mrs T found the wall 
at the end of their garden had mostly collapsed. They contacted CIS and an assessor came 
out to view the wall twelve days later. He concluded that the storm hadnt caused the 
damage and declined the claim. 
Towards the end of April Mr and Mrs T obtained a quote and had the wall re-built at a cost of 
£2,817.91. They contacted CIS to challenge its decision to decline their claim. CIS reviewed 
photos its assessor had taken and reconsidered his findings. It confirmed it was satisfied that 
the claim had been declined reasonably  it didnt believe the storm had been the dominant 
cause of the damage. 
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy. They said they maintain the wall carefully, particularly since 
having had it re-built in 2013. And photos taken in 2013 showed the re-built wall in good 
condition. They said the assessor had guessed it had been leaning prior to the storm, and 
the fact that the remaining parts were now leaning merely showed the effect of the storm. 
They pointed out that a feature of the storm was major flooding and surface water, they 
believed this is what had caused the wall to lean and partially collapse. Mr and Mrs T also 
felt CIS hadnt handled the claim well. They complained to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that CISs decline had been fair and 
reasonable given the evidence available. He didnt think CIS had provided poor service.
Mr and Mrs T felt it was unfair that what they had said about the condition of the wall and 
how it had likely been affected by the storm had been given less weight than that of CISs 
assessor. They were adamant it had been re-built to a good standard in 2013 and that the 
state of the garden and wall, including exposed roots, had all happened as a result of the 
storm and its aftermath. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr and Mrs T, Im not persuaded 
that CISs decline was unfair or unreasonable. 
I can see that CIS chose to use an assessor to consider and determine its claim. Whilst an 
insurer will often communicate its final position on a claim, it is sometimes the case that this 
work will be delegated. That seems to have been what happened here. 
I know Mr and Mrs T disagree with the assessors findings. But he is considered to be an 
expert and whilst Ive heard Mr and Mrs Ts objections to what hes said, they havent 
produced any expert evidence to discount his findings. I know there are reasons for such 
evidence not being gathered by Mr and Mrs T. I understand the choice they made in this 
respect. But it does leave them at somewhat of a disadvantage.
The photo from 2013 does appear to show that part of the wall had recently been or was in 
the process of being worked on. But theres no detail to evidence what was actually done to 
the wall. And whilst work may well have been completed well and to a good standard then  
seven years is quite a long time. Even if there was a report or similar from 2013 confirming 
the wall was in a good state of repair, Id be unlikely to think this automatically outweighed 
the evidence of the assessor that viewed it following the damage. So a photo alone isnt 
enough to make me think the assessors findings must be flawed.        
Mr and Mrs T believe surface water and/or build up of water in the soil, put pressure on the 
wall causing it to lean. But, and in the absence of an expert opinion confirming this was likely 
the case, theyve no photos to show this happened. Reports of local conditions dont show 
what their garden was like or that the wall fell due to external storm forces exerted upon it. 
I bear in mind the assessor pointed to dense vegetation and roots in the area of the collapse. 
I can see by comparing the photo from 2013 that planting has grown over time but that even 
in 2013 there were good sized plants quite close to the wall. I dont think its likely that this 
vegetation wasnt having any effect on the wall  and I bear in mind that the photos show 
that the remaining section of wall that didnt collapse in 2020, had little planting against it in 
2013 or 2020. The photos of the fallen wall also show exposed roots and dont suggest 
much of the exposed soil had been washed away such that it could reasonably be said that 
these roots werent in close proximity to the wall before its collapse.
CIS said it thinks the wall was likely bound to collapse imminently, regardless of the storm. 
Having considered the available evidence I cant reasonably say its finding was unfair.
I havent seen that CIS handled this claim poorly. It appointed an assessor who attended 
within a fortnight and the claim was declined at that time. When Mr and Mrs T called CIS to 
challenge that finding, CIS gave them an answer straight away. I know Mr and Mrs T would 
have appreciated contact from CIS in-between, following the assessors visit, but I dont think 
it was unreasonable that CIS, having noted its assessor had declined the claim on its behalf, 
didnt act to contact Mr and Mrs T directly.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against CIS General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman