DRN-4454686
The complaint
A limited company, that I will refer to as W, complains about the temporary removal of the 
overdraft facility provided by its HSBC UK Bank Plc business account.
Mr K, a director of W, brings this complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. W holds a HSBC bank account 
which had a £10,000 overdraft facility. W was operating within this facility when, in 
January 2022, HSBC mistakenly removed this facility. 
W discovered this issue just under two weeks later, when attempting to pay its staff, and 
Mr K contacted HSBC to resolve the problem. Mr K was informed that the issue could take 
several weeks to be resolved. In the end, it took just under one more week for the overdraft 
facility to be restored  though it doesnt seem W was immediately aware of this. W also 
then had to order a new debit card. 
Mr K complained about this to HSBC, saying that the issues with the account had meant W 
had lost high value clients and contracts. HSBC accepted that it had made a mistake when 
removing the overdraft, so it refunded interest charged on the account, corrected its credit 
file records, and offered W £250 in compensation. Mr K was not happy with this and brought 
Ws complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said HSBC should pay W 
compensation of at least £150,000 and also compensate him personally for the impact on 
him as an individual.
Our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld though. She thought the 
redress offered by HSBC was enough and that W had not shown the situation was the cause 
of it losing its largest customer. Mr K remained unsatisfied and Ws complaint was passed to 
me for a decision. 
Having considered the evidence available, I was not satisfied that HSBC had done enough 
in the circumstances. I thought the inconvenience caused to W by the removal of its 
overdraft, which effectively suspended its account, warranted more than £250 in 
compensation. However, I explained that I thought this should be limited to £600 in total 
(£250 offered plus £350). I was not satisfied that W had demonstrated the consequential 
loss it was claiming for. 
W had said that is had lost a number of customers and provided some emails to support this. 
However, the emails relating to one of these customers predated the removal of the 
overdraft, so I explained that I did not think the banking problems were the cause of any 
issue with this customer. 
The issues W had with a second customer, apparently its biggest client, also appeared to 
have started prior to the overdraft being removed. And whilst this contract was apparently 
not continued, I did not think it was clear that this had been caused by the banking problems. 
I also queried whether W and its directors had done enough to mitigate the impact of the 
overdraft being removed. Mr K had explained that one of the biggest problems was that W 
hadnt been able to pay for software crucial to its operation. But I didnt think it had been 
shown that attempts to mitigate this had been made. 
Lastly, I explained that, as W and Mr K are two separate legal entities, I was not able to 
consider the personal impact on Mr K as part of this complaint. The complainant here is W 
and it is the impact on W that I need to think about. 
HSBC agreed to increase the compensation to £600 in total. However, although I explained 
my provisional thinking to Mr K and asked him to respond with any further comments or 
evidence, I did not receive anything further from him or W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, taking into account that W has not provided any further evidence, I have 
come to the same conclusions as I have previously explained. 
HSBC has admitted it was at fault for the removal over the overdraft. As W was operating 
within this facility it is clear that this would have had a detrimental impact on W. However, W 
and Mr K have not persuaded me that this impact included the loss of Ws clients. 
I do appreciate that when Mr K was informed it might take several weeks for the problem to 
be resolved, this would have caused some potential issues. W would have needed to 
consider whether it was able to provide the services it had been contracted for. But I am not 
persuaded that any loss of Ws clients was the result of the banking problems. It is clear from 
the evidence provided that, prior to these issues, W had already lost one client and that its 
biggest client was raising concerns about the timeliness of product delivery. I have also seen 
no evidence that attempts to mitigate the potential software problems were made. So I am 
unable to fairly and reasonably require HSBC to compensate W for the loss of these clients.
It is though clear that W would have suffered a level of inconvenience that merits 
compensation greater than £250. And I consider that £600 in total is the appropriate level of 
compensation for the issues experienced. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay W £600 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman