DRN-2616509
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint concerns his with profits bond held with Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited. Hes feels that he wasnt provided with enough information prior to the 
bonds maturity, including not being alerted to a significant reduction in the terminal bonus 
rate. He feels that Scottish Friendly hasnt justified the reduction in bonus and has also 
handled his concerns about the matter poorly. 
 
What happened
Mr Ds bond matured on 15 April 2020. In advance of this, on 4 March 2020, he was sent a 
pack alerting him to the imminent maturity, giving an estimated maturity value and explaining 
the options available to him. At that point the estimated value was just over £3,600, in part 
due to a terminal bonus rate of 27%. 
On 15 April 2020 the bond matured with a lower value, just under £3,000. The terminal 
bonus rate had in the interim been reduced to 5%. 
Mr D complained to Scottish Friendly. There were some issues with the handling of the 
complaint  for which it has offered Mr D £50. But in respect of the main issues  the 
reduction in the bonus and lack of communication about the change  Scottish Friendly 
didnt feel that it had done anything wrong. It explained that the decision to reduce the bonus 
rate had been taken in response to the sudden stock market falls around that time and 
general financial uncertainty. And it explained that it didnt communicate changes to bonus 
rates on an ad-hoc basis when they happened as doing so would be too costly. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Scottish Friendly, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr D didnt accept this. He noted the investigators reference to Scottish Friendly having to 
act in accordance with agreed Principles and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM), 
overseen by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in managing its with profits fund. But 
Mr D didnt feel that there wouldve been time for there to have been any realistic review or 
investigation of the bonus reduction in this case. 
Mr D also highlighted an error made in one of Scottish Friendlys letters, which referred to his 
bond having a 15-year term as opposed to a 10-year term. He felt this misinformation had 
impacted in his decision making.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds disappointment with receiving a maturity value for his bond that was 
significantly lower than the estimation provided in his maturity pack. But that said, I dont 
think that Scottish Friendly acted incorrectly in its administration of the bond and its maturity 
 beyond the issues with the handling of the complaint for which its made an offer I think is 
fair. 
The information Mr D was sent in March 2020 about the imminent maturity made clear that 
the final bonus was estimated. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Scottish Friendly to 
change it and I dont think there was any responsibility on it to communicate that change 
prior to the maturity date. It wasnt required to by its terms and it wouldnt be normal industry 
practice to do so, regardless of how large the change might be.
And in any event, even if Mr D had been made aware of the reduction in bonus prior to the 
maturity, the value could not have been changed. And in respect of his options, they 
wouldve remained the same  either take the cash value or re-invest into a new bond or 
ISA, but that wouldve been the maturity value based on the 5% terminal bonus rate. 
I note Mr Ds concerns about the error made in describing the term of his bond  Scottish 
Friendly saying that it had a term of 15 years when it was actually 10 years. But that error 
was made in a letter dated 27 April 2020, well after the bonds maturity, so I dont think that it 
can have impacted Mr Ds decision making. 
Im satisfied the error was simply a typo and not an indication that Scottish Friendly had 
mismanaged the bond in some way that might have led to the maturity value being incorrect. 
As noted, the maturity value he received was right, albeit less than Mr D expected or felt was 
reasonable. So, it would have been that same amount that he could either have taken as 
cash or re-invested. It wouldnt have been affected by any decision he made. 
In respect of the reduction in bonus, it was undeniably a significant reduction. But it came at 
a time when stock markets had significantly fallen, and the financial outlook was very 
uncertain. 
There is a system of processes and separation of responsibilities set up to ensure that 
Scottish Friendly, like any other with profits fund manager, acts reasonably in making its fund 
management decisions. As noted, PPFM documents are published showing how the fund is 
being managed and Scottish Friendly will have a With Profits Committee that exists to 
ensure that it treats all policyholders fairly in managing the fund. And all of this is overseen 
by the FCA  its rules requiring that businesses must take reasonable care to ensure that all 
aspects of its operating practice are fair to the interests of its with profits policyholders.
I appreciate what Mr D has said about the time limits involved and how it wouldnt be 
possible for any problems with Scottish Friendlys decision on the bonus rate, or any other 
aspect of its management of the with profits fund, to be picked up in the time frame involved. 
But the oversight of the fund management is an ongoing process and, without clearer 
evidence to suggest an error or mismanagement, I dont feel I can reasonably conclude that 
Scottish Friendly acted incorrectly or departed from its normal procedures. In my view its 
explanation for the bonus reduction appears reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman