DRN-1947410
The complaint
Ms B complains that Cumberland Building Society has treated her unfairly. In particular, she 
says it failed to keep her informed about a jointly held mortgage 
What happened
In 2007, Ms B took out a joint mortgage. The mortgage was a repayment mortgage with a 15 
year term.
In 2013, after Ms B had separated from the joint mortgage holder, an agreement was 
reached on the sale of the mortgaged property and how the proceeds should be split. It was 
also agreed that Ms Bs ex-partner would pay the mortgage going forward and Cumberland 
would be asked to convert the mortgage to an interest only basis.
In 2014, Cumberland agreed to convert the mortgage to interest only. It also capitalised the 
arrears that had build-up. Ms B says she wasnt notified that the arrears would be capitalised 
when the mortgage was converted to an interest only basis. Cumberland also failed to send 
Ms B regular mortgage statements, so she didnt know if her ex-partner was maintaining the 
mortgage payments. 
In July 2019, the property was sold, and the mortgage was redeemed. 
Ms B complained to Cumberland about its failure to keep her informed about the mortgage. 
She also said that as a result of the arrears being capitalised in 2014, she had lost out on 
part of the proceeds she was due from the sale of the property.
However, after checking with her solicitor, Ms B confirmed that she had not lost out 
financially as a result of the arrears being capitalised.
Cumberland apologised for the poor service Ms B had received. It accepted that it should 
have send Ms B regular mortgage statements from April 2012 onwards. And it said it should 
have done more to explain that it had capitalised the arrears when it converted the mortgage 
to an interest only basis. 
In order to put matters right it offered to pay Ms B £100 for the distress and inconvenience its 
poor service had caused. It later increased this offer to £150. But it said that as Ms B hadnt 
lost out financially as a result of what had happened it didnt think it should pay more.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Cumberlands response and brought her complaint to this service. 
She said she felt she had been bullied by Cumberland.
Our investigator said he felt the offer Cumberland had made to pay Ms B £150 was fair in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
He said that he agreed that Cumberland should have done more to ensure that Ms B 
received regular mortgage statements. And he said he appreciated that due to the 
disabilities Ms B suffers from, not being kept informed about the mortgage would have 
caused her additional worry and distress.
But he said he hadnt seen anything that showed or suggested that the poor service Ms B 
received from Cumberland was deliberate because of Ms Bs disabilities. In view of this he 
said he felt the offer Cumberland had made was fair and he didnt think it needed to do any 
more to put matters right.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. She said Cumberlands failure to keep her 
informed about the mortgage had exacerbated her health conditions and made her life more 
difficult.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Bs position and I have very carefully considered all that she has 
said about the poor service she received from Cumberland. Having done so, I think the offer 
Cumberland has made to pay Ms B £150 is fair and reasonable. I dont think it needs to offer 
any more put matters right. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Cumberland should have sent Ms B regular mortgage statements 
from 2012 onwards. Nor is it in dispute that it should have made clear that it had capitalised 
the arrears on the mortgage when it was converted to an interest only basis.
What is in dispute is whether the redress Cumberland has offered is enough to compensate 
Ms B for the trouble and upset this poor service caused her. 
I am very sorry to hear that the lack of information about the mortgage had a detrimental 
impact on Ms Bs health. But I havent seen anything that suggests there was a deliberate 
attempt by Cumberland to bully Ms B, or cause her worry and distress. I am satisfied that the 
poor service she received was due to administration errors on Cumberlands part and was 
not a deliberate attempt to cause distress.
In reaching my decision I am also mindful that although the lack of information caused Ms B 
distress, she did not lose out financially as a result of Cumberlands poor service. 
I am also mindful that the capitalised arrears (that accrued before the mortgage was 
switched to interest only) were deducted from Ms Bs ex-partners share of the proceeds, not 
Ms Bs. I understand that this was arranged by Ms Bs solicitor and Ms B incurred legal costs 
for this. But, as our investigator explained, I dont think this would have been avoidable even 
if Ms B had been clearly told that the arrears had been capitalised in 2014.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms B was hoping for. But having very carefully 
considered this matter I think the £150 Cumberland has offered to pay Ms B is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that the £150 Cumberland Building Society has offered to pay Ms B for the 
poor service she received is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to Ms B to decide if she 
now wants to accept Cumberlands offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman