DRN-3368819
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse money he lost as part of 
an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide an overview 
of what happened. 
In June 2017, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a Contracts for Difference and 
forex broker called CFD Corporate who sold him an investment opportunity. He says that he 
was persuaded to invest after doing some initial checks on the broker. 
Mr B started with a small deposit and made further payments after seeing his investment 
make profits. Initially, he sent money to his trading account from his overseas account. 
Between December 2017 and April 2018, Mr B sent money from his HSBC account in the 
UK and the transactions went through an intermediary firm which Ill refer to as W.
Date Type Payee Amount
11 December 2017 Online banking 
paymentW £15,000 
12 December 2017 Credit £15,000 (above transaction 
reversed due to incorrect 
beneficiary details)
19 December 2017 Online banking 
paymentW £15,000 (blocked by HSBC)
25 January 2018 Online banking 
paymentW £8,000
30 January 2018 Online banking 
paymentW £25,000
22 March 2018 Online banking 
paymentW £20,000
11 April 2018 Online banking 
paymentW £14,800
Total loss £67,800
 
Persuaded by the broker, Mr B continued sending money beyond April 2018 from his 
overseas bank account. Mr B eventually realised he had been scammed when he found out 
that CFD Corporate wasnt regulated and its website suddenly disappeared.
Mr B contacted HSBC in November 2019 and asked for its assistance in recovering the 
stolen money. It contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt a recall but received no response. 
HSBC declined to reimburse any of the disputed payments but paid £250 compensation in 
acknowledgement of the delay in looking into Mr Bs claim.  
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred the matter to our service and said that HSBC shouldnt 
have let any of the payments go through. Our investigator didnt think HSBC acted unfairly in 
processing the payments. He acknowledged that it blocked the second payment and tried 
contacting Mr B about it but was unsuccessful. But he didnt think this meant that HSBC 
ought to have blocked the subsequent payments to the same beneficiary. It was the 
investigators view that the payments werent so unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought 
to have triggered the banks systems.
Mr B disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that although Ive only summarised the background 
and main arguments above, so not everything that happened is mentioned, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided in its entirety. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank also 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for 
the losses incurred by its customers as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr B using his online banking and associated security 
credentials. I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which Mr B is 
liable unless theres evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to 
protect him, and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Mr B submits that the payments ought to have alerted HSBC given the financial regulator 
published a warning about CFD Corporate. But I think its important to note that the payee 
for these transactions was W, not CFD Corporate. Except for the second payment 
on 19 December 2017  which had a payment reference of CFD Corporate, Im not 
persuaded that HSBC could or ought to have known that Mr B was sending money on to 
CFD Corporate.
I note Mr B has said that when he reported matter to the police, he received an email from 
them saying they were investigating W. That may have been the case, but there were no 
regulator warnings about W at the time of the transactions. And, to my knowledge, no 
warnings have been published about it since then either. At the time of Mr Bs payments, W 
was registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as an e-money agent of a 
regulated firm. So, the payee name alone wouldnt have made the transactions sufficiently 
unusual or suspicious to HSBC. 
Although this makes no difference to Mr Bs case, its worth noting that there were no 
regulator warnings about CFD Corporate either at the time of the transactions. The FCA 
warning wasnt published until 26 June 2018. So even if the payments had gone to the broker directly, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have automatically flagged them based on 
the payee name alone. 
When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of character, it is 
often a finely balanced matter. And banks have a difficult balance to strike between 
identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks and allowing 
customers to utilise their accounts with minimal unnecessary disruptions.
Ive considered whether the transactions in question were significantly out of character or 
unusual. Looking at the Mr Bs account activity in the year leading up to the first disputed 
transaction, I can see multiple payments for similar or higher amounts during that period. For 
instance, I can see around ten transactions of £25,000 each in August 2017. I acknowledge 
Mr B has said that these were transfers to his own account overseas which his branch had 
full knowledge of. But theyre also indicative of several large-value transactions going 
through the account. In the same month, there was also a payment of just over £33,300. 
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that these payments were a one-off, but they do form part of 
his account transactions profile. With that in mind, I dont consider the disputed transactions 
as being so unusual that they ought to have triggered an alert on HSBCs systems.
That said, I can see that the second payment did trigger HSBCs fraud detection systems 
and it tried to contact Mr B to query it. The payment was ultimately stopped from leaving the 
account when HSBC was unable to confirm with Mr B that the transaction was genuine. 
Mr B says that he didnt receive HSBCs letter. He also questions why HSBC didnt attempt 
to contact him using other methods, such as secure messaging through its online/mobile 
banking application. How a financial business chooses to contact its customer to confirm that 
a payment is genuine is a matter for its commercial judgement and not something this office 
generally interferes with. But if it helps to provide more context, a bank may choose one 
communication method over another based on the associated level of risk identified. For 
instance, if it believes security credentials or mobile device may have been compromised, it 
may decide to write to its customer by post. 
I recognise that Mr B says he never received HSBCs letter, but Im satisfied that it was sent. 
That Mr B didnt receive it isnt something I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for. And Im 
mindful that Mr B also had the opportunity to query why his payment didnt go through as he 
ought to have realised this when the funds didnt leave his HSBC account and werent 
credited to his trading account with the broker. 
Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC ought to have automatically blocked subsequent 
payments to the same beneficiary given it was unable to confirm whether the flagged 
transaction was genuine. I can see that there was a gap of five weeks between this payment 
and the next. And the next payment was almost half in value. Considering these factors in 
conjunction with what Ive already said above, Im not persuaded that the subsequent 
payments were so unusual or suspicious that HSBC ought to have intervened and asked 
questions before executing Mr Bs instructions.
Ive also considered whether HSBC could have done more in recovering the funds when 
Mr B reached out to it for assistance. HSBCs already accepted that there was a significant 
delay in progressing his claim and has paid £250 compensation in recognition of this. From 
the information Ive seen, Mr B first contacted HSBC about being scammed in November 
2019. This is over 18 months after the last disputed was sent. Even if things had gone the 
way they should have and HSBC had contacted the beneficiary bank at the end of 2019, 
given the length of time that had passed since the payments were made, its unlikely that funds would have still remained in the beneficiary account. So, I find it more likely than not 
that the recovery of funds would still have been unsuccessful. 
In summary, I know that Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. I also recognise its 
likely that hell disagree with my findings. But having considered the matter carefully, I dont 
think that HSBC could have prevented the losses he suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman