DRN-2360869
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). He is unhappy 
about the way it handled switches of his pension funds.
What happened
Mr R held four pension policies with Aviva. He contacted Aviva on 8 May 2019 and asked to 
switch all four funds onto deposit. He was told that two funds could be switched on his verbal 
instruction, but two others couldnt (these were the P27 funds). A written instruction was 
required to switch the P27 funds and Mr R was told that the value for the switch would be 
determined by the value on the date the forms were received, and not the date of his call.
Although forms were sent to Mr R by email there was some misunderstanding and in further 
discussion with Mr R Aviva offered him the choice of the fund values on 8 May 2019 (the 
date of his original call) or 16 May 2019. This was offered as a gesture of goodwill, Aviva 
werent under any obligation to offer this choice and Mr R was, technically, never entitled to 
the 8 May 2019 value.
Mr R agreed to the values of 8 May 2019. Aviva then actioned the switch for one of the P27 
polices but in error, failed to action the second switch. Mr R contacted Aviva in June 2019 
and pointed out that the second switch had not taken place. He wanted the switch to go 
ahead but at the June 2019 value which was now higher. Aviva declined and processed the 
switch at the 8 May 2019 value.
In July 2019 Mr R transferred his funds to another provider.
Mr R complained to Aviva. Aviva apologised for its error in relation to the second switch and 
offered Mr R £150 for any distress caused but it wouldnt agree to pay the June 2019 
transfer value. Mr R didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He thought the offer 
was fair. In summary, the investigator said:
He was satisfied that it was fair that Mr R should receive the 8 May 2019 value for his 
second P27 fund. That is what had been agreed.
Although different switch values had been quoted during discussions with Mr R, this 
was due to daily fluctuations in the fund values.
Mr R didnt agree and so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint as I think 
the offer Aviva has made is fair.
Aviva had reached an agreement with Mr R that he could secure the value of these P27 
funds as at 8 May 2019. Mr R wanted to lock in the value and avoid volatility and fluctuation. 
This agreement involved a concession by Aviva as, technically, Mr R was never entitled to 
switch at that value, the terms required a written instruction and not only a verbal one like his 
other policies.
Aviva accepts that it did make a mistake and failed to action the switch for one of the P27 
funds. When Mr R raised this error with them, the value of the fund had increased. But I 
dont agree that this should mean he should receive the higher value. An agreement had 
been reached to pay the 8 May 2019 value, and where a business makes a mistake the 
normal method to put that right is to require it to put the consumer into the position they 
would have been in but for that mistake. In this case I think the fair and correct outcome is 
for Mr R to be placed in the position he would have been in if the switch had been actioned 
as agreed. He would then have the 8 May 2019 value and not the higher value from 19 June 
2019. I dont think there can be any doubt that if the value had fallen by 19 June 2019, Mr R 
would have insisted on receiving the 8 May 2019 value and nothing less. If I were to agree 
with Mr R and say he should get the higher value, I think that would be unfair on Aviva and I 
would be allowing Mr R to eat his cake and have it.
The values of the two P27 funds were discussed in a call on 17 May 2019. The values Mr R 
had for both were higher than the values Aviva referred to. But Im satisfied that there is a 
simple explanation for that, as the investigator has said, the funds had daily valuations, and 
these could move from one day to the next. Its evident that during that discussion Mr R had 
the values from 7 May 2019 and Aviva were referring to the values from 8 May 2019. This 
explains the differences.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that the offer Aviva made is fair. It should pay Mr R 
£150 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman