DRN-3468953
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees and charges associated with the loans 
refunded.
What happened
In September 2019 Loans 2 Go approved a loan of £250 for Mrs F, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £57 per month over a term of 18 months. Then 
in November 2019 Loans 2 Go approved a loan of £400 for Mrs F, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £91 per month over a term of 18 months. When assessing 
the applications, Loans 2 Go asked Mrs F about her financial circumstances and carried 
out a credit check before approving the lending.
Both loans were settled early.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought Loans 2 Go shouldnt have approved the 
lending for Mrs F. Mrs F appears to have accepted that, but Loans 2 Go didnt respond. So 
the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, essentially for the same reasons as those set out by the 
adjudicator.
Loans 2 Go is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mrs F would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, she needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay Loans 2 Go for the loan to be considered affordable 
and sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did Loans 2 Go carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
In short, yes I am satisfied it did. It carried out a credit check, and appears to have asked her 
some basic information about her outgoings. Those checks provided it with enough 
information in this instance to identify that there were significant concerns about Mrs Fs 
financial position. It could have gathered more information in an effort to understand things in 
more depth and potentially find evidence to suggest that the lending was affordable and 
sustainable for Mrs F. But it didnt.
Was Loans 2 Go right to conclude that the lending was affordable and sustainable for Mrs 
F?
In short, the available evidence does not support that conclusion. Whilst there are two 
separate loan applications under consideration here, they are so close together, and Mrs Fs 
circumstances were essentially the same. So Ill summarise the key issues present in both 
September and November 2019, which were evident from the credit checks completed by 
Loans 2 Go:
A substantial debt burden, meaning a large amount of Mrs Fs monthly income was 
needed simply to repay credit. This should have raised concerns about the 
sustainability of her situation over the planned 18 months of the loan terms.
Repeated and frequent use of many high cost short term credit providers.
Two separate credit or store card accounts with balances over the credit limit.
Based on what it saw in the credit checks it completed, I cannot see how Loans 2 Go 
concluded that this loan would be affordable and sustainable for Mrs F. The fact that she 
settled them early does not in itself impact on that view, as it may be that she borrowed 
elsewhere in order to do so. So it follows that I uphold this complaint
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs F, Loans 2 Go must:
A) refund all interest, fees and charges Mrs F paid towards the loans;
B) add 8% simple interest* calculated on the refund, from the date the payments were made, 
to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file in relation to these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman