DRN-3149814
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd did not reimburse the money she transferred to a 
fraudster.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in July 2020, Ms T reported two transactions via 
Monzos banking app that she disputed having made, each for £0.01. 
That same day, Ms T received a call from an individual purporting to be from Monzo. 
Unknown to Ms T at the time, the individual was actually a fraudster. Ms T has explained the 
fraudster had personal information about her, such as her name, segments of her address, 
her email address and recent transactions on her account, which reassured her they were 
genuinely calling from her bank. The number the fraudster called from was also very similar 
to Monzos legitimate customer service number (only one digit being different)  which Ms T 
was told was due to the call being from the fraud prevention and theft department.
The fraudster told Ms T that they wanted to make her account more secure and provided her 
with details of another Monzo account to transfer her funds to. When Ms T attempted to 
make the transfer, Monzo has said Ms T wouldve been presented with the following 
information:
Details dont match account
The details you entered dont match the account youre sending money to.
Please double check who youre sending money to and cancel this payment if you think 
someone might be trying to scam you.
Ms T wouldve needed to click continue anyway to proceed, which wouldve prompted the 
following:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
If youre not sure, cancel this payment. Once you make a payment, its almost impossible for 
us to get the money back.
Ms T has confirmed she recalls receiving a warning advising the details provided didnt 
match the account and questioned this with the fraudster. She said she was told that, as 
they werent sure if they would reach her by phone, her full details hadnt yet been added to 
the account, but that this would be completed today and shed receive confirmation by text 
once her details had been added to her account.
Ms T was then required to select the reason for making the payment on Monzos banking 
app. Ms T initially chose the option something else but then reverted back and chose 
transfer to a safe account. Ms T then received the following warning:
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Remember:
Monzo will never call you without arranging by email or in-app chat first
Other banks will never ask you to move money out of your Monzo account
Call your bank directly
Ms T had to click again to confirm she wished to make the payment.
Ms T again recalls seeing this message and that she wasnt convinced this was ok so 
questioned the caller. Shes explained the fraudster reassured her by explaining these were 
generic safety features of the Monzo app because of the value of money she was 
transferring and that Monzo was here to protect its customers. Shes said the fraudsters 
telephone mannerisms, coupled with the spoofed telephone number, knowledge of prior 
unauthorised transactions and knowledge of her personal details convinced her that this was 
a genuine call. Ms T therefore proceeded to transfer her account balance to the fraudster, 
across two transactions, the first being for £2,500, the second for £256.09.
When Ms T didnt hear back from the fraudster, she contacted Monzo and realised at this 
point shed been the victim of a scam.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo provided a 50% refund to Ms T, as it acknowledged the complexity of the scam Ms T 
fell victim to. However it considered it provided effective warnings to Ms T and so considers 
Ms T should share liability for the loss.
Ms T feels she should be fully refunded and so has referred her complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into Ms Ts complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with Monzo 
providing a full refund. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have fully refunded the money Ms 
T lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Ms T 
lost.The money was taken from Ms Ts current account. It is not clear how Ms T would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date it declined Ms Ts claim under the Code to the date of payment.
I have considered Monzos representations about the warning it gave and whether Ms T had 
a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade 
me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Ms T failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
I dont think the warning was impactful enough for the scam Ms T fell victim to. It 
didnt cover a number of safe account scam hallmarks that I think were significant in 
this case for Ms T believing this was a legitimate call. For example, there was no 
mention of fraudsters being able to spoof telephone numbers. The warning also 
doesnt warn that Monzo will never ask its own customers to move money, 
particularly to a safe account. 
Its clear in this case that Ms T did pay attention to the warning, but the fraudster was 
able to reassure Ms T, based on some of the missing factors of this warning, that she 
was safe to proceed regardless. I think, considering the reassurances given by the 
fraudster that werent covered by the warning, Ms T acted reasonably, 
notwithstanding the information the warning did include. 
While the warning advises that Monzo will always arrange contact prior to calling, Ms 
T has explained she wasnt surprised that Monzo had called her, having logged 
unauthorised transactions earlier that day. While Monzo has advised no follow up call 
with Ms T was pending, I can understand why, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, Ms T would find this contact less unexpected.
Its also worth noting that the Code sets out what criteria as a minimum an effective 
warning should include. In this case, when making the first transfer to the fraudster, 
Monzo wouldve been aware that Ms T had provided account details that didnt match 
the intended recipient, that Ms T had selected safe account as the reason for 
payment (which Monzo would know its a concept that exists outside of scams) and 
that she was attempting to transfer over 90% of her balance to this account. I think, in 
the circumstances, its arguable that Monzo shouldve done more to protect Ms T, 
regardless of the warning it provided.
Its not clear whether Monzo believe Ms T lacked as reasonable basis for believing she 
was making genuine transactions. In any case, I dont think she did because:
The contact from the fraudster wasnt entirely out of the blue. While a call hadnt 
been arranged with Monzo, Ms T had reported disputed transactions on her 
Monzo banking app earlier that day, and the fraudster was aware of these 
transactions.
The fraudster knew personal information about Ms T and Monzo has 
acknowledged that the fraudster appears to have effectively mimicked its 
identification processes.
The number Ms T was called on very closely matches Monzos genuine customer service number. Again, Monzo has acknowledged that many businesses have 
slightly different telephone numbers for different departments.
While Ms T saw warnings that were relevant to the scam she fell victim to, the 
fraudster was able to reassure Ms T and give plausible reasons for Ms T to 
bypass these.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Ms T ignored an effective 
warning, or that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a genuine 
transaction. Monzo should therefore refund the funds Ms T lost to the fraudster in full.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund the remaining 50% of the money Ms T lost to the scammer
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Monzo declined Ms Ts claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman