DRN-1641097
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1997 in connection with a mortgage. Mr D and Mrs D say HSBC UK Bank Plc 
mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 1997. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. They said they didnt need it, it wasnt optional, and it wasnt suitable 
for them.
 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr D and Mrs D disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
 
The policy only covered Mr D, so I will sometimes only refer to him. But I will refer to Mr D 
and Mrs D where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
HSBC should have made Mr D and Mrs D aware they had a choice in buying the policy. Mr 
D and Mrs D say they were not aware the policy was optional. Neither HSBC nor Mr D and 
Mrs D have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising given that the 
sale took place around 23 years ago. But it does mean I have limited information about the 
sale, so I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened, given the information I 
do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how HSBC sold policies like this at the time I think its likely the 
optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mr D and Mrs D has told me 
makes me think HSBC didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its more likely 
HSBC made it clear to Mr D and Mrs D they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to 
buy it although I can understand why they may not remember this now.
Neither party can tell me whether the sale was advised or non-advised. But I dont think that 
matters because I think the policy was suitable for their needs. I say this because Mr D was 
eligible to buy PPI, it seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main 
things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr D and Mrs D told us they had three months savings and Mr D had sick pay  but 
they couldnt recall if they had savings at all when they spoke to HSBC earlier in the 
complaint process. Assuming that three months sick pay is correct, I dont think Mr Ds sick 
pay made the policy unsuitable because I noted the policy could have paid out for a 
maximum of 12 months on a successful claim. This means the PPI could pay out for longer 
than and in addition to Mr Ds sick pay - so I think this would have been a useful benefit for 
them.
 
I also think Mr D and Mrs D probably borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their 
mortgage repayments would be made if Mr D was unable to work would have been 
important to them. It also meant any savings they had could be used for other expenses.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D and Mrs 
D about the PPI cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it should have been. But having 
decided Mr D and Mrs D chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover for Mr D. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them so I dont think more detailed information 
about the PPI cost and benefits would have put Mr D and Mrs D off from taking out the 
cover. And overall I dont think Mr D and Mrs D have lost out by anything HSBC might have 
done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr D and Mrs D. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mr D 
and Mrs D has said and about what I know of HSBCs sales processes. And I dont think  
on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
Due to the current circumstances and postal restrictions in our office, I have sent this 
decision by email to Mr D and Mrs D and not by letter as requested. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman