DRN-3835290
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice AJH Financial Services Ltd (AJH) gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In September 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr P information about his 
entitlement under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
quotation.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. 
While I haven't seen the document sent to Mr P I'm aware the packs gave members three 
options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
Mr P made enquiries with three separate firms, including AJH, about seeking pensions 
advice. In the first instance he instructed another firm. He was some way down the advice 
road when that firm told him it no longer had the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority 
- FCA) permission to give the relevant pension advice. 
Mr P then asked AJH for advice. It met with him in December 2017 and January 2018. In 
February 2018 it sent Mr P its financial planning report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It recommended that Mr P should transfer his DB funds to a named 
personal pension. In short it said that by doing so, amongst other things, Mr P would be able 
to retire early and his wife would benefit from enhanced death benefits if he should die 
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
before her. Mr P accepted AJHs advice and transferred his DB funds to the named personal 
pension.
In November 2021 Mr P complained, via this Service, that AJHs advice to transfer out of the 
DB scheme wasn't suitable for him. AJH didnt think it had done anything wrong so in 
February 2022 Mr P asked us to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators looked into 
it. He didn't think AJH had dealt with Mr P fairly. In short he didnt think AJHs advice was 
suitable and said it should have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2. The Investigator said 
AJH should calculate if Mr P had suffered a loss because of its advice to transfer. The 
Investigator also recommended that AJH should pay Mr P £300 to address the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of learning that AJH had given unsuitable advice. 
AJH didnt initially agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. So it was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
While the case was awaiting an ombudsmans attention, in August 2022 the FCA launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress method guidance. In October 2022, our 
Investigator wrote to Mr P and AJH. He said the FCA was consulting on the method for 
calculating redress in DB transfer cases, which would come into effect from 2023. He said 
he was giving Mr P the option of choosing which method of redress calculation he preferred, 
either:
using the existing guidance; or 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
The Investigator added that if Mr Ps complaint still hadn't been settled by the time the new 
method came into effect he would expect AJH to use the updated calculation method. Mr P 
replied to say he would like his redress calculated under the existing rule.
In April 2023 the FCAs new rules for calculating redress in DB transfer cases came into 
effect. From that date forward the previous method of calculating redress no longer applied. 
In June 2023 AJH told us that in an effort to resolve that matter it had done a calculation, 
using the regulators BSPS specific calculator, to establish if Mr P had suffered a financial 
loss as a result of its advice. It said Mr P hadn't suffered a loss. For technical reasons, this 
service was unable to check the figures. In August 2023 AJH ran the calculation again using 
the regulators most recent assumptions. It still showed no loss.
We advised Mr P about AJHs calculation. Mr P said AJH hadn't told him that it was 
calculating a loss. He also said that any loss should be calculated at the time of claim 
rather than using up-to-date figures.
The complaint has since been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand AJH is still disputing that it gave Mr P unsuitable advice. But, nonetheless in 
order to conclude the matter its already carried out loss calculations. So I dont see the need 
to address the suitability of its advice to Mr P in detail. 
That said, I will comment that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for broadly similar reasons. In particular Ive been mindful that the FCAs guidance for advising firms is that they should assume that a transfer from a DB scheme is 
unsuitable and they should only recommend one where they can clearly show that it was in 
the consumers best interests. I dont think that was the case for Mr P. Thats because, 
amongst other things:
The growth rates required to match the benefits from the DB scheme, particularly if 
Mr P were to take early retirement, seem too high to ensure he would be financially 
better off by transferring out of the DB scheme.
The difference in death benefits from a personal pension wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees offered by the DB scheme for. Thats especially the case as both the 
BSPS2 and PPFs own death benefits were guaranteed and didnt rely on investment 
growth or how much was left in his pension pot at the date of his death. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Ps best interest to give up his DB 
scheme guarantees. 
I also agreed with our Investigator that learning that he might have put his security in 
retirement at risk unnecessarily would have been a source of distress and inconvenience for 
Mr P. To address that I think its fair that AJH pays him £300 compensation.
Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr P back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the BSPS. AJH carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS calculator 
provided by the FCA which is what I would expect it to do in the circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out by an insurance company), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.I have checked the inputs that AJH entered which are personal to Mr P. These include 
Mr Ps personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the scheme 
and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had not been 
advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the BSPS2 and that 
he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
I understand that AJH didnt tell Mr P that it was intending to make the calculation before it 
did so. But I dont think it needed to. As the firm that provides him with ongoing financial 
advice it had access to his up-to-date personal pension details. So it didnt need to make an 
enquiry of him to establish those figures. And AJH told us that it wanted to show us the 
calculation before giving it to Mr P in order to give him the reassurance it had undertaken the 
calculation correctly. I think that was reasonable.
Mr P also said that, while the calculator has appropriately allowed for the fees his current 
personal pension provider charges, he changed provider last year and his previous 
providers charges were higher than those allowed by the calculator. However, those higher 
charges would have been allowed for in the calculation. Ill explain that, in essence, the 
calculator looks at what Mr Ps current personal pension is valued at, and compares that with 
how much he would need to buy a pension of equal value to his DB scheme benefits. And 
the higher charges Mr P has paid in the past would have reduced the value of his pension 
pot before he moved it to his new provider. So any previous reduction in value affects its 
current value which is used in the calculation.
Further, Mr P said AJH should calculate any loss as at the time of claim. But I dont 
think that would be fair. As I've said above the FCA altered its method of calculating 
redress and developed the BSPS calculator in order for a consumer like Mr P to be able 
to secure today equivalent benefits available from the DB scheme had he remained in it. 
And, as the precise amount required will be affected by things like annuity and interest 
rates, that amount will fluctuate over time. The FCA has recognised this when it designed 
the calculator. So calculations factor in assumptions about future market conditions 
including things like inflation, interest rates and investment returns. The FCA updates 
these on a regular basis to ensure they are as accurate as possible. They are 
programmed into the BSPS redress calculator which firms are required to use. So 
applying a retrospective date to the calculation now wouldn't provide fair results. 
Also we let Mr P know when we wrote to him in October 2022, if AJH hadn't made a 
potential loss calculation by the time the new method for doing so came into effect then 
we would expect AJH to use that new method. That's what its done in this instance. I 
think that's fair. 
I think the calculation AJH carried out is appropriate in the circumstances and no redress for 
financial loss is due to Mr P. However, I think AJH should pay him £300 to address the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of its unsuitable advice.
My final decision
For the reasons given I require AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr P £300 compensation 
for his distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman