DRN-2636216
The complaint
 Mr K is unhappy that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) said he was in persistent 
debt on his credit card account and would not allow him to repay his balance over 48 months 
and continue to use his card. 
He is also unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc gave him invalid contact details in its 
response to his complaint. 
What happened
 Mr K had held a credit card account with NatWest for several years. He was contacted by  
NatWest, saying hed been in persistent debt and so it would be closing his account.
He was unhappy because he said hed been a loyal customer and never missed any 
payments. He said he felt bullied and harassed by NatWests actions and had not been 
treated fairly. He was also unhappy because NatWest provided him with invalid contact 
details in its complaint response. Mr K wanted NatWest to reinstate his account and 
compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
NatWest explained that it had decided to close Mr Ks account because Mr K was in 
persistent debt and did not agree to any of the payment plan options it offered. It explained 
that the purpose of its process was to offer help and support with a range of options to avoid 
long term credit card debt. It said it had acted correctly, but it offered £50 to compensate for 
the error in relation to the contact details. Mr K was unhappy with this and brought his case 
to our service.
Our investigator explained what persistent debt means, and that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had introduced rules to tackle the problem, which banks had to comply 
with. He explained that NatWest had complied with the rules and sent the letters it needed 
to. Our investigator noted that Mr K said he hadnt received some of these letters but could 
see that NatWest had sent them.
In the circumstances, our investigator didnt think NatWest had acted unreasonably, and that 
the £50 compensation offered in relation to the contact details error was fair.
She didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He was unhappy with this, and so the case has come to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I will start by explaining about persistent debt, which is a term defined by the FCA. I can 
understand that Mr K felt that it implied he had not been making payments but being in 
persistent debt means that someone has paid more in interest, fees and charges than 
theyve paid towards what theyve borrowed over a period of 18 months. The result is that 
the amount they owe is increasing, even though they may be making the payments they 
have to under their agreement. In order to tackle high levels of persistent debt the FCA 
implemented rules that banks must comply with. 
Id like to re-assure Mr K that receiving a letter about persistent debt didnt mean that the 
bank thought hed done anything wrong, but it needed to act in line with the rules here and 
give him options to increase his payments so he could repay his balance within a specific 
period of time.    
Having reviewed Mr Ks statements, I am satisfied that NatWest correctly identified him as 
being in persistent debt and then sent a number of letters to comply with the FCA rules. Mr K 
says he didnt receive these  only the account closure notice. I appreciate that this must 
have come as a shock, but I cant hold the bank responsible for any issues with the postal 
service as NatWest has shown that it sent the letters and they werent returned for any 
reason.
But in any event, the letter that Mr K did receive in September 2020 repeated the potential 
options contained in the letter sent in May, and told Mr K he needed to get in touch to 
discuss his options or his account would be closed:
Option 1 If you repay the balance of £xx within the next 6 months we may be able to keep 
your credit card open for further spending, depending on your individual circumstances
Option 2 If you repay the balance of £xx over a longer term of up to 48 months (via a pay 
down plan) you will no longer be able to use your card and your account is likely to be 
closed
The letter went on to give examples of repayments that would be needed over 12, 24, 36 
and 48 months.
Mr K said that he could pay off his balance over 48 months but wanted to be able to carry on 
using his card. NatWest said he couldnt do this. I dont think this was unreasonable as I can 
see that if Mr K continued to use his card, he wouldve had to pay the increased fixed 
monthly amount he offered, which was already more than he had regularly been paying, plus 
a further amount in respect of any additional borrowing and interest. This couldve led to him 
continuing to hold long term expensive debt on his card, which is what the new rules aim to 
resolve. So, although I can see why Mr K was upset that he couldnt carry on using his card 
in these circumstances, I dont think NatWest offered an unfair or unreasonable option here.  
As Mr K didnt agree to any of the options proposed by NatWest, NatWest closed Mr Ks 
account, as it was allowed to under the FCA rules and its terms and conditions. NatWest had 
also warned Mr K that this would happen in the letters it had sent. Although Mr K says he 
didnt receive these letters, I can see that NatWest sent them, so I cant say that NatWest 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the course of closing Mr Ks account. 
That will have been upsetting for him, especially given the way the relevant letters are 
worded. But those are important letters sent to explain things clearly to customers. So these 
are actions NatWest was ultimately entitled to take here. And Im satisfied it did so fairly. 
NatWest has assured Mr K that it had no intention to cause any distress, and I am satisfied 
that this was the case.
Ive seen a copy of the closure notice and I can appreciate why Mr K feels hes been 
harassed. However, given the FCA requirements for banks to get in touch with customers to 
discuss their accounts and put actions in place to help reduce the cost of their borrowings, 
the letter needed to explain the position. So, based on this, I cant say that NatWest has 
acted unreasonably. Its worth noting that the decision to close Mr Ks account wont leave an adverse mark on 
credit file, and he is free to apply for credit elsewhere, or to apply to transfer his balance.
Putting things right
Regarding the issue of the incorrect contact numbers - I can understand that this would have 
added to Mr Ks frustration, but I am satisfied that NatWests offer of £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience is a fair and reasonable offer to put things right.
Overall, I appreciate the matter has been very frustrating for Mr K but for the reasons 
explained above, I wont be asking NatWest to do anymore.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint that National Westminster Bank plc provided 
incorrect contact details and require National Westminster Bank plc to pay Mr K £50, as it 
has already offered to do.
I dont uphold the remainder of the complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman