DRN-4056632
The complaint
Ms J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) declined to refund money she lost after
being scammed.
What happened
What Ms J says
Ms J met someone through a social media platform who, over a couple of months,
persuaded her to invest in cryptocurrency (crypto). This person told Ms J that theyd made
money investing with a crypto investment merchant Ill refer to as B.
Ms J was given a link to open an account with B who were based overseas. Ms J was also
told to open an account with an online currency exchange merchant who Ill refer to as V. V
used a UK based currency processor to deal with their payments who Ill refer to as M.
Ms J was told that the more funds she invested, the higher her return would be. She was
given access to a trading account which showed the movement of funds shed invested in.
Ms J was able to access this through a dedicated app provided by B.
The following is a table of relevant payments made to V through the services provided by M.
Ms J believed these payments were then channelled to B:
Date Amount Note
26/10/2020 £1,314
27/10/2020 £7,000
30/10/2020 £1,584.99 Profit received
02/11/2020 £2,000
02/11/2020 £5,000
04/11/2020 
06/11/2020£7,444 Failed payment &
then resent.
09/11/2020 £12,200 Tax
After the first payment, Ms J was informed shed already made some immediate gains and
decided to make a further payment before receiving this profit. Ms J went on to make
several additional payments to B, some to different account names held with V. Ms J said
that the change in account names was explained to her that different opportunities to invest
required her to send the money to these different accounts. She didnt think this was
suspicious at the time.
By early November 2020, Ms J wanted to release some of her profit and was told that she
needed to pay tax on her investment. Ms J then made the final payment of £12,200, after
which she faced delays and excuses about why she couldnt get her funds out of the
account. She was told that if she paid more, the process of returning her funds could be
expedited, but she refused. Eventually she realised shed been the victim of a scam and
approached HSBC about the loss. Ms J was told to go to M about the payments but got no
further with her enquiries, eventually going back to HSBC who declined to refund her.
What HSBC have said
Initially, HSBC questioned why Ms J had waited for so long before contacting them about her
loss. They didnt think that Ms J had spoken to them about the issue until around March
2021. It was later discovered that Ms J had contacted HSBC around the end of November
2020 when shed been told to go to M about her losses.
HSBC approached M who told them that the account the scammed funds had been sent to
was no longer open (V), so nothing further could be done.
HSBC attempted to retrieve Ms Js investments but were unsuccessful and declined to make
any refund to her. HSBC told Ms J that they couldnt offer a refund because the payments
were made to an overseas account and HSBC couldnt consider them under the Contingent
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). HSBC repeated their advice for Ms J to approach
M about her losses.
The investigation so far
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Ms J brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
Further evidence was sought from both parties and Ms J was asked about the background to
the investment in more detail. She was able to confirm that shed researched M, who were
based in the UK, but hadnt looked into the investment firm themselves (B).
HSBC provided details of their efforts to retrieve the funds which were unsuccessful. They
also sent additional information about the account, including statements.
After considering the complaint, the investigator upheld it and recommended that HSBC
make a refund to Ms J of all but the first payment including adding interest at 8% on the
money she lost. She didnt think HSBC should have noticed the first one as it was only for
£1,314 and wouldnt have seemed unusual based on how Ms J normally operated her
account. The investigator believed that HSBC should have noticed the unusual nature of the
payments when Ms J made the second payment for £7,000.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators outcome and argued that Ms J should bear some of
the responsibility herself for her losses. HSBC argued that they should only refund 50% of
the money lost because:
Ms J failed to carry out sufficient due diligence, particularly in regard to B.
They were never informed about B when Ms J spoke to them.
There was limited information about the background to the investment given to them.
M are a legitimate payment processor so Ms Js payments would appear as a
genuine investment.
HSBC didnt believe a conversation (if theyd had one) with Ms J would have
dissuaded her from investing with B.HSBC thought it noteworthy that there was a delay in notifying them about the scam
 (which was later found to be an incorrect assessment of the facts).
HSBC referred to various regulations requiring the account holder to be responsible
for their decisions when making payments.
HSBC believed it wasnt reasonable (for Ms J) to make these payments over such a
short period of time without further checks on whether the investment was legitimate.
After reviewing the comments made by HSBC, the investigator maintained that Ms J
shouldnt be responsible for any of her losses. HSBC asked for a further review of the
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
I asked for further clarification about some of the background to the situation and Ms J was
able to say:
The investment was similar to how the stock market operated when investments
were made.
She wasnt given any terms or conditions for the investment scheme.
Ms J believed the investment was legitimate because she was sending money to a
UK based company (M).
Ms J was never contacted about any of the payments by HSBC.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Ms Js complaint on 20 February 2023. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Ms Js complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J accepts that she herself authorised these payments, so in the first instance shes held
responsible for them, but HSBC are expected to protect Ms J from financial harm where the
circumstances are sufficiently unusual or suspicious. At this point of the complaint, HSBC
have already agreed to repay 50% of the lost investment.
To simplify the complaint, I dont intend to go into substantial detail about HSBCs failure to
intervene. As they accept they have to make some form of refund, it follows that they accept
they should have intervened at some point.
I agree with the investigators assessment of this, which is that the £7,000 payment should
have triggered that intervention. But I dont accept HSBCs reasoning that it wouldnt have
made a difference, and Ill explain why.
This situation had the hallmarks of a crypto investment scam which was, or should have
been, well known to HSBC at the time because:
Ms J was approached via a social media platform and over a period of time
persuaded to invest in this scheme.
She was provided with an app
She was instructed to open multiple accounts.
There were no agreements about the investment.
Shed been told she was to receive an immediate payment from her initialinvestment.
Ms J was given access to an online trading screen showing her investment
increasing substantially.
The manner of channelling the payments themselves seems suspicious on its own. If it was
a legitimate crypto investment, there seems little use for payments to be sent to a currency
exchange account (V) first. Thats because crypto can generally be purchased in most major
currencies. Also, there doesnt seem to be a legitimate crypto merchant involved here, which
is a departure from the usual scam and another red flag. Essentially, Ms J was asked to
open a currency account with V and send money to the scammers  everything else was
window dressing to convince her to part with her savings.
Ms J hasnt said she was asked to lie to her bank by the scammers at any point, so I think if
HSBC had spoken to her, HSBC could have established a reasonably accurate picture of the
arrangements as far as Ms J was aware. I think its then likely to have yielded enough
information about the situation for HSBC to warn Ms J about the likelihood she was being
scammed. So, I do think that a conversation would have made a difference, but I also have
to consider if Ms J should be held liable for some of the loss herself.
Should Ms J bear some of the loss herself?
Ms J can only be held liable for some of the loss if she acted unreasonably when she was
involved in the scheme. This is known as contributory negligence, and its generally defined
as . a lack of care on the consumers part that goes beyond what we would expect from a
reasonable person.
So here, the question I have to consider is did Ms Js actions fall below that standard? Its
apparent that Ms J is an inexperienced investor, so I wouldnt expect her to approach this
situation with a deep understanding of crypto investing or the risks associated with it. From
her submissions, she was brought into this through her interaction with an individual on an
unrelated social media website. Its difficult to understand the level of persuasion carried out
by them because the detailed conversations are no longer available, but I think its
reasonable to assume that Ms J developed some level of trust in this person because she
was willing to commit considerable funds to the scheme on their recommendation.
That in itself would likely remove some of the doubts a person might have to making such an
investment, particularly if Ms J had built a rapport with this person over the months she was
interacting with them. Shed also been persuaded that large profits had been made as a
result of investing with B.
It doesnt appear that Ms J queried who B were or attempted to check that they were
legitimate, although when I looked, I couldnt find much about B during the time Ms J was
investing. So, even If Ms J had checked into B, I dont think there was much she would have
found that would have indicated she was being scammed.
She did check who M were, but theres no information that Ms J looked into V  who were
operating the accounts that received her funds. It seems that V were being used to channel
the funds to the scammers as a currency exchange platform, so I dont think there was much
for Ms J to find here even if shed looked.
But, once Ms J had made a small investment, a few days later she received a payment into
her account, which she was told was her profit from the investments. I think this likely
provided confidence to Ms J that she was involved in a legitimate investment scheme, which
would no doubt help to banish any remaining doubts she may have had about sending them
money.Ms J continued to send payments to B until shed built up her investment which she was able
to view via her app on the trading portal. Once she asked to remove funds, she was asked to
make a payment of 20% to account for the tax. I dont think a reasonable person in the
same position as Ms J would necessarily question this payment, particularly as international
taxation matters can be extremely complex. Up till that point, Ms J had no doubts about the
scheme, so wasnt approaching the request for tax with any particular distrust or suspicion.
There are some factors here that I think Ms J could have been a little more sceptical about,
but it also appears shed gained a level of trust in the person who directed her to B, so I think
this would have given her confidence that she was sending her money to a legitimate
investment broker.
HSBC made other points about why they think Ms J should be responsible for some of the
loss including the lack of information given to them by Ms J. But, by the time Ms J spoke to
HSBC about the issue, shed already lost the funds and had been effectively turned away by
them in November when she first raised the issue of the scam.
HSBC also argued that M are a legitimate investment company, so these payments wouldnt
appear suspicious to them. If M were a legitimate investment company then the same
reasoning would also apply to Ms J. But, as far as Im aware, M arent an investment
company, rather a currency processor who operated an account on behalf of V. So, either
way I think HSBC should have identified these unusual payments and intervened.
HSBC are correct in that legitimate instructions given to them should generally be carried out
and theres a level of responsibility on the account holder regarding the payments they
make, but similarly theres an obligation on HSBC to protect Ms J from fraud or financial
harm where there are grounds to establish the payments were out of the ordinary which they
were here.
HSBC have argued that Ms J should shoulder some of the loss herself, but on balance, and
based on all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think her actions were noticeably different to
what Id expect from an inexperienced investor who was lured into a crypto investment
scheme. This scam was sophisticated in nature, including trading screens and access to a
specific app. Both of these would, Im sure, give a sense of legitimacy to the whole process.
So, I currently dont think that Ms J should bear any of the loss herself apart from the first
payment.
Redress
Ive also thought about the way HSBC dealt with Ms J in the first instance when she brought
her scam to them. At the time, they told her to go to M and effectively ignored her issue. I
dont think this was a fair way for HSBC to act when it was apparent that shed lost large
sums of money and was looking towards her bank to help her. I do recognise that the
scammers were the ones who stole her money, but Ive little doubt that the extra time it took
to register the issue with HSBC caused Ms J additional unnecessary stress. Im currently
thinking about recommending an additional award and I think a payment of £250 is
appropriate.
My provisional decision
Im intending to recommend HSBC make a refund. Ive calculated that Ms Js total loss was
£34,958 and the scammers returned £1,584.99. Im not including the first payment of £1,314
so the total Im recommending HSBC refund is £32,059.01. These funds originally came
from her savings account and Ms J has confirmed she wouldnt have used them for other
investments. So, I think the rate of interest applicable to the losses should be the appropriateaccount rate from where the money originated, calculated from the payment dates to the
date of settlement. Im also intending to recommend a payment of £250 for the way HSBC 
handled the initial contact by Ms J.
I invited Ms J and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Ms J didnt have anything further to add about her 
complaint and HSBC, in summary said:
To clarify that the payees were to different companies/ individuals rather than M.
The payments were made internationally to payees not based in the UK, 
contradicting Ms Js assertion that she carried out research and the merchant was 
legitimate.
Meeting someone in a social relationship which turned into an investment one was 
suspicious. 
HSBC believe that the absence of negative information (about B) doesnt absolve Ms 
J from all responsibility.
The profit she received was too good to be true when considering the short period of 
time and the annual return rate  calculated by HSBC as 2,132% annually.
Our services has general approach to payments for tax is that its implausible and 
not part of a general investment arrangement. 
Its noteworthy that Ms Js refused to pay a second amount.
Ms J thought she was dealing with a UK company  so why would this be an 
international taxation matter?
HSBC expected some due diligence from Ms J when receiving this request (for tax).
HSBC dont concede responsibility for Ms Js loss.
If its found that HSBC acted in error but a warning wouldnt have made a difference 
then it should follow that Ms J should not receive a refund.
HSBC argue that the rapport built up with the scammer would have influenced how 
Ms J reacted to a warning from the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC made a number of points which Ive considered in relation to the evidence and my 
thoughts set out in the provisional decision. Overall, I wont be changing my position, but will 
explain my thoughts based on the additional comments made by them.
In my provisional decision I explained the basis for the arrangement Ms J was involved in 
and I dont intend to repeat that in detail here. The main points worth reiterating are:
Ms J looked into a UK company used in the payment journey for her investments 
(M)  who are a legitimate UK based company.
M operated a platform which (V) used to receive funds that were paid to various 
companies and individuals.
Ms J has already explained the reasons for making payments to different entities.
Theres no detailed evidence available regarding the interaction between Ms J and 
the scammer on the social media platform, but its apparent that shed developed 
some level of trust with that person  no doubt allaying some of her suspicions.
This was pitched as a crypto investment which was (and still is) a volatile market, so 
its not inconceivable that large profits could be made in short periods of time. I think it would be unusual to say that international taxation is anything but 
complicated and whilst it may be implausible in some situations to think that a person 
may have to pay it, my considerations relate to the specific aspects of Ms Js 
situation. As mentioned, Ms J wasnt suspicious at this time and thought the request 
was a legitimate one.
Ms Js refusal to pay a further amount related to an attempt to get further funds to 
expedite her investment payment rather than more tax which I think Ms J was 
wary of and she then realised shed probably been scammed when she failed to 
receive any funds. 
Ms J has said she was making payments to a UK based company  but her 
investment app was in a foreign language, so I dont think she thought the investment 
was being carried out from the UK.
I understand HSBC now dont concede responsibility for her loss, but they earlier 
argued that they should only have to pay 50% of the losses. Its my determination 
here that HSBC should have intervened. and it would likely have made a difference 
due to the factors Ive already set out, so it follows that theyre liable for these losses 
as set out in my provisional decision.
Its evidence that Ms J was influenced by the scammer, but she also said she took 
confidence from HSBCs lack of intervention ( believing if it was a scam then they 
would have contacted her). If theyd intervened at the second payment, then I think 
its likely that Ms J would have listened to HSBC and took their warnings seriously, 
preventing any further loss.
So, the findings I made in my provisional decision are adopted as my final decision. Overall, 
HSBCs failure to intervene led to the losses made by Ms J (apart from those already 
identified). Im satisfied there was ample evidence that the transactions were unusual, and 
HSBCs intervention would likely have made a difference. I realise HSBC themselves didnt 
cause the loss, but they were in a position to prevent most of them.
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, HSBC should now make a refund. Ive calculated that Ms Js 
total loss was £34,958 and the scammers returned £1,584.99. Im not including the first 
payment of £1,314, so the total Im recommending HSBC refund is £32,059.01. These funds 
originally came from her savings account and Ms J has confirmed she wouldnt have used 
them for other investments. So, I think the rate of interest applicable to the losses should be 
the appropriate account rate from where the money originated, calculated from the payment 
dates to the date of settlement. HSBC should also pay £250 for the way HSBC handled the 
initial contact by Ms J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct them 
to settle it as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman