DRN-3466617
The complaint
Miss T complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) terminated her 
income protection claim.
What happened
Miss T is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to pay benefit in the event she cant work because of illness or injury.
In May 2017, Miss T stopped work due to illness. After having surgery, Miss T returned to 
work on reduced hours in November 2017. A claim was made under the scheme, which L&G 
accepted. L&G paid Miss T partial benefit to recognise her earnings had reduced because of 
her illness. 
In September 2020, L&G concluded that Miss T was fit enough to return to work full-time. It 
therefore terminated the claim as of November 2020. Unhappy with this, Miss T brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the medical evidence 
supported that Miss T couldnt return to work on a full-time basis. She recommended that 
L&G reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit. She also recommended L&G pay Miss T 
£300 compensation for the distress caused by its decision to terminate the claim. 
L&G didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has own occupation cover under the scheme for the first 60 months. The scheme 
terms explain this means:
the insured memberis incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or injury which 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of the job he carried out under his contract 
of employment immediately before the start of the deferred period...
The terms and conditions say the following about partial benefit:
A disabled member who, on or at any time after benefit start date, either
(i) returns to his occupation on a part-time basis, or
(ii) takes up another occupation
but, as a direct result of the illness or injury giving rise to the incapacity at the start of the 
deferred period, suffers a loss of earnings compared to when he was following his 
occupation will continue to be regarded as a disabled member. In this case partial members 
benefit and partial additional benefit, if any, will be payable.
Before Miss T stopped work, she worked 35 hours a week. After she returned to work 
following her surgery, she reduced her hours to 28 hours a week. 
As our investigator has explained, in terminating the claim for partial benefit, the onus is on 
L&G to show that Miss T could work full-time as of November 2020.
Miss T says she continues to suffer with post-surgery issues, namely fatigue, chronic 
abdominal discomfort, and poor sleeping. She says her cognitive function has been 
impacted due to this, which has in turn affected her work performance leading to depression. 
Miss T has explained that having one day off a week has been essential for her, as she says 
it allows her to recover from working.
Ive looked at the medical evidence to see if L&Gs decision to terminate the claim was 
reasonable.
In May 2020, L&Gs rehabilitation specialist spoke with Miss T over the phone. Although 
Miss T continued to report ongoing physical and mental fatigue, they thought she described 
an active lifestyle working and exercising. They therefore concluded that Miss Ts level of 
functioning had improved, and thought she should be able to return to full-time work 
(increasing her hours by half a day initially).
In June 2020, Miss T was reviewed by her treating consultant surgeon (Ms P). Ms P has 
been Miss Ts treating consultant since 2017 and had performed Miss Ts surgery. Ms P 
noted said that Miss T was experiencing insomnia. She said that Miss T was still working 
four days a week, and commented that she thought this was the right thing for her to do. 
That was because, following Miss Ts surgery, she was suffering from depression and 
anxiety, and hadnt gained back her strength.
After L&G decided to terminate Miss Ts claim, Ms P provided her view on the matter in 
October 2020. Ms P said that Miss T hadnt completely recovered from her surgery and 
continued to experience symptoms (including diarrhoea, memory loss and fatigue). Ms P 
was of the view that Miss T wasnt fit enough to be working full-time for five days a week. 
Ms P then had a consultation with Miss T in December 2020, a few weeks after L&G had 
terminated the claim. She noted that Miss T continued to have difficulties with sleep as well 
as difficulty focusing and suffered with memory loss. She said that Miss Ts digestive 
problems also continued, which increased her fatigue.
L&Gs medical officer (MO), who is a GP and occupational physician, was of the view that 
Miss T could return to work full-time. He said that, as Miss T was performing her role for four 
days a week with no employer concerns, this would suggest that her memory and 
concentration issues were sufficiently resolved. 
Miss T provided additional medical information to this service which L&G hasnt seen. I note 
that L&G was aware it had been provided to us, but didnt ask to see it. It therefore might be 
helpful if I explain that in July 2021, Miss Ts employer arranged for her to be assessed by 
occupational health. The reason for that was because Miss Ts employer said her 
performance had fallen below the companys expectations, and there were a series of 
specific areas of concern. Whilst I recognise that this was some months after L&G 
terminated the claim, it does suggest that Miss T hadnt been able to perform her role for 
four days a week without employer concerns. Though even if I were to disregard this information (given that it was provided after Miss Ts 
claim had been terminated), I think the available evidence from Ms P does support that 
Miss T wasnt fit enough to return to work full-time. Ms P explained that Miss T continued to 
experience digestive problems, difficulty sleeping, and fatigue. Its apparent that Ms P 
thought Miss T couldnt work full-time, and was supportive of her continuing to work reduced 
hours.
I recognise that L&Gs MO has a different opinion to Ms P. In cases where there is a 
difference in medical opinions, this service generally places greater weight on the opinion of 
the treating specialist over a practitioner who hasnt met the insured. That being the case, I 
think its reasonable to rely on Ms Ps view in this matter. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that it wasnt reasonable for L&G to terminate the 
claim. I require it to reinstate the claim and pay backdated partial benefit due to Miss T. 
Miss T has explained that L&Gs decision to terminate her claim put financial pressure on 
her and caused her anxiety. I think an additional compensation payment would be fair to 
recognise this. I agree with our investigator that £300 would be an appropriate amount in the 
circumstances, and adequately reflects the inconvenience and worry that Miss T was 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to reinstate the claim and pay backdated partial benefit due, in line with the 
scheme terms and conditions. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each benefit 
payment was due to the date of settlement*.
L&G should also pay Miss T £300 compensation.
*If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman