DRN-3013060
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was mis-sold and was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 17 January 2019, Mr B was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement was for £40,999 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of 
£573.52 and a final payment of £20,293.75 if he wanted to keep the car at the end of the 
agreement. At the time the car was over three years old and had done 14,655 miles.
Mr B said hed discussed the cars depreciation with the supplying dealership, and hed been 
told that it would retain its value, and thered be no issues if he wanted to sell or upgrade it 
within the first year. But, 14-months later, Mr B contacted the dealership to discuss his 
options to return the car. And hes said they told him the car was worth less than the amount 
he owed to VWFS. So, he feels he was misled into acquiring the car.
Mr B was also unhappy with the quality of the car. Hes said hed had to return the car to the 
dealership to have a rattle fixed, and that there was a further fault with the headlight controls. 
Hes also said that he was told that the tyre tread was above the legal limit, and he had 
several months before they would need replacing. However, he was told by an independent 
tyre fitter that the tyres had insufficient tread and would need replacing sooner.
Mr B complained to VWFS, who said the dealership were unable to replicate the headlight 
fault. They also said that, having spoken to the dealership, there was no evidence to show 
Mr B had been told the car wouldnt depreciate in value. So they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr B wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said shed spoken to the supplying dealership and theyd said its impossible 
for them to predict any future value of a car, because it depends on factors such as mileage 
and condition, as well as general market forces at the time. Which is why they dont discuss 
this with customers. Instead, they refer to the Guaranteed Minimum Future Value (GMFV). 
The investigator said that Mr B was provided with documentation showing the GMFV to be 
£20,293.75, which shows a depreciation of around £20,000 over the term of the agreement.
Because of this, the investigator said Mr B was provided with sufficient information, before 
he entered the agreement, to show that the car would depreciate in value. So she didnt 
think the agreement had been misrepresented or mis-sold.
The investigator also said that a rattle on the car was repaired on 28 March 2019, at no cost 
to Mr B. And there were further issues with the parcel shelf on May 2019, and a level sensor 
in August 2019. She thought these were wear and tear issues and didnt mean the car was 
of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied. She also said shed seen no evidence of an issue 
with the headlamp control, and that Mr B didnt need to replace the tyres until almost a year 
after taking possession of the car.
Because of this, the investigator didnt think Mr B should be allowed to reject the car. But she 
did think VWRS should pay him £100 for the trouble and upset hed been caused by having 
to return the car for repair on a number of occasions.
VWFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr B didnt. And hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the first 
six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Mr B has also made a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering 
misrepresentation, Im looking at two things; whether there was a false statement of fact and, 
if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr C to choose the car.
Mr B has said that the supplying dealership verbally told him the car wouldnt depreciate in 
value. And its not disputed that theres no evidence to show what Mr B was or wasnt told.
While I appreciate Mr B wanted a car that wouldnt reduce in value, because of factors such 
as age, condition, and mileage, its extremely rare that a car wouldnt depreciate in value 
over time. And, where this is the case, its also reasonable to expect that the car is insured 
for a fixed value, rather than a general market value which is normally the case.The pre-contract information from VWFS explains how the GMFV is fixed, which protects the 
customer against depreciation. So, if the true value of the car is lower than the GMFV, then 
the GMFV would be used to value the car. And Ive seen that, on 17 January 2019, Mr B 
signed to say hed received and read this information.
Ive also reviewed the agreement. While it doesnt specifically mention a GMFV, it also 
doesnt give any other guarantees about depreciation and the future value of the car. And 
the final optional payment is the same as the GMFV of the car.
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Mr B insured the car for a fixed value. 
And, when he looked to return the car to the dealership, the price he was quoted was the 
trade value of the car, which is usually lower than the retail value that could be achieved on 
a private sale.
Taking all of the above into consideration, on the balance of probabilities Im satisfied its 
more likely than not that Mr B wasnt told the car wouldnt depreciate in value. Because of 
this, I dont consider there was any false statement of fact, and that the future value of the 
car wasnt misrepresented to Mr B.
Turning to the car itself, Ive seen that Mr B first raised an issue with the car on 29 January 
2019, as he didnt find the seats comfortable or supportive. However, at this time, he didnt 
raise any other issues with the car. 
The service record for the car shows that, on 28 March 2019, the dealership fixed a rattle in 
the roof pan and replaced a battery in the key. At the time, the car had done 16,827 miles  
2,217 more than when it was supplied to Mr B.
On 9 May 2019, the dealership fixed some damage to the parcel shelf that was causing 
another rattle. At this point, the car had done 18,394 miles  3,789 since supply. And, on 29 
August 2019, when the car had done 22,413 miles (8,758 since supply), a level sensor was 
replaced. The car was then serviced on 25 October 2019, with no further work done.
It's clear from this that Mr B suffered a few faults with the car. But, as none of these faults 
reoccurred after the dealership attempted repair, its reasonable for me to say that the 
repairs were successful. And, as Mr B didnt complain about these faults in his January 2019 
email, its also reasonable for me to say these issues werent present when the car was 
supplied to him.
If these faults made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied, then the CRA allows 
VWFS the chance at repair. And, as these faults were repaired at no cost to Mr B, the CRA 
doesnt give Mr B the right to reject the car. So, if I thought these faults made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality, as they were successfully repaired, I wouldnt ask VWFS to allow Mr B 
to reject the car.
Mr B has also complained of a fault with the headlight control. The service record shows the 
dealership investigated this but couldnt find or replicate the fault. And I havent seen any 
independent evidence of any headlight control fault. So Im not satisfied this fault exists. And 
I wont be asking VWFS to do anything more.
Finally, Mr B has complained about the condition of the tyres, and hes said he was told the 
tyres wouldnt need replacing for several months. Ive seen the invoice for the replacement 
tyres, and this shows Mr B had them replaced on 23 December 2019  more than 11 months 
after the car was supplied, and after itd done an additional 12,615 miles. This is in line with 
what Mr B says he was told. So, I also dont think VWFS need to take any further action.Putting things right
The investigator acknowledged that Mr B had suffered some inconvenience in having to take 
the car in for repair, for several different issues, during the first few months of being in 
possession of it. And she recommended VWFS pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble 
and inconvenience hed been caused. VWFS agreed with this recommendation.
Im satisfied the investigators recommendation is in line with what Id award in similar 
circumstances, and I see no compelling reason to change this. So, VWFS should pay Mr B 
the £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman