DRN-2911260
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) dealt with his loan application.
What happened
Mr K applied for a loan for £11,500 with BoI in August 2020 which he says was approved. 
He says he didnt receive the loan agreement and says he asked BoI what had taken place. 
Mr K says BoI then told him it carried out a further credit check and refused his application. 
He says the delay and the decision meant he paid an extra two months interest on his credit 
card debt which he intended to repay using the loan. Mr K also says he has been caused 
anxiety and distress and would like compensation for what took place and for the extra 
interest he paid. He also says BoI carried out two searches on his credit file.
BoI says it approved Mr Ks application in principle but made clear that further checks would 
be carried out when Mr K signed the application. It says it sent Mr K the documents and it 
isnt responsible for the safe delivery of mail. BoI says it carried out one search on Mr Ks 
credit file and didnt penalise Mr K for the delay in returning the documents. It says it doesnt 
provide a reason for a refusal to lend and told Mr K in an e-mail on 17 August 2020 that his 
application would be reviewed.
Mr K says he made a Subject Access Request and says BoI refers to suspicious activity and 
question how many other customers have been affected by BoIs decisions. He brought his 
complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator thought that BoI told Mr 
K that it approved his loan application in principle but made clear further checks would be 
carried out. The investigator thought BoI wasnt responsible for the mail not being received 
and wasnt obliged to tell Mr K the reasons for rejecting his application. The investigator 
didnt think there was any evidence that BoI carried out more than one credit search.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and in summary says BoI could have sent him the documents 
by recorded delivery and says he didnt receive its e-mail on 17 August 2020. He says he 
believed the application was approved and questions why checks couldnt be carried out 
before offering a loan. Mr K would like copies of BoLs customer journey and further 
information about the information he received from it and he also questions where the e-mail 
went.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I also 
make clear to Mr K that we are not BoIs regulator and its not our role to order it to provide 
the documents and explanations he would like, such as the customer journey document.
I have looked at the documents and information Mr K would have seen when he applied for 
the BoI loan. Im satisfied that BoI made clear that it approved the loan application in 
principle and that it would review it when it received the signed agreement. I appreciate Mr K 
may not have realised that but that is not something I can fairly hold BoI responsible for. I 
have looked at BoIs e-mail dated 17 August 2020 and Im satisfied it repeated that 
information. I dont think its clear why Mr K didnt receive that, but I think that information is 
made clear during the application process in any event.
Im satisfied its up to BoI when exercising its commercial judgement to decide to whom it 
lends to and isnt obliged to provide customers with information about why it may choose not 
to lend. I also cant comment on what Mr K says about other customers in similar positions to 
his.
I appreciate Mr K says he didnt receive the documents from BoI. I cant fairly hold BoI 
responsible for that as it has no control over the safe delivery of mail, and I find its up to it to 
decide how such documents are sent.
I also appreciate Mr K says two searches were carried out on his credit file. I have not seen 
any evidence of that and would have expected Mr K to have provided us with evidence from 
his credit file if that was the position. 
Overall, Im satisfied that BoI didnt guarantee Mr Ks loan application was successful rather 
it said it was approved subject to further review when it received the completed documents. I 
dont think BoI has misled Mr K or given him any guarantees. I also think such information 
was available online and in the correspondence Mr K was sent. For those reasons I cant 
fairly order BoI pay any compensation or for the extra interest Mr K says he paid. I find this 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do and also make 
clear that I have considered all of Mr Ks representations but have commented on his main 
complaint points.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman