DRN-1778839
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under a group income protection 
insurance policy which she had the benefit of.
What happened
In September 2018, Miss S became absent from work, and was signed off by her GP with 
work related depression. She had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the 
policy) through her employer, which can pay out a portion of her income after shed been off 
work sick for 26 weeks (the deferred period). 
Miss S remained signed off sick by her GP at the end of the deferred period and a claim was 
submitted under the policy to pay the monthly benefit under the policy. 
Unum declined that claim in May 2019. It didnt think Miss S met the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period. Miss S didnt think that was fair, so she appealed 
the decision. Unum concluded that it was right to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Miss S complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. As 
Miss S disagreed, her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Unum has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably decline 
a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy, a member is incapacitated:
For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred 
period, if:
Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and
the member is not following any occupation
Material and substantial duties are defined as those duties that are normally required for the:
performance of the members insured occupation, and which cannot reasonably be 
omitted or modified by the member or the employer
Insured occupation means: 
the gainful occupation that the member was actively undertaking for the employer 
immediately prior to incapacity.
So, the focus is very much on whether Miss S was unable to perform the role she was doing 
because of illness. And it is for Miss S to show that she met the policy definition of 
incapacity under the policy.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Unum has unfairly declined Miss Ss claim. 
Unum has said the medical evidence appears to relate to perceived workplace issues which 
hadnt been resolved by the time Miss S was signed off work by her GP in September 2018. 
And that the medical evidence didnt support Miss S having a significant medical condition 
which would impact her function on a sustained basis.
When Miss S was signed off work by her GP, in September 2018, the GP notes reflect that 
she had an ongoing grievance at work and there was no outcome yet. This was causing 
further detriment to health and she was experiencing panic attacks. 
The claim form Miss S completed dated March 2019 reflects that she was experiencing 
depression due to disability discrimination at work pending two grievances. And that she 
was unable to sleep, cook, leave home, go shopping or socialise. Miss S also said she 
experienced regular panic attacks and anxiety when she thought about how her employer 
had treated her. 
Theres little else reflected in Miss Ss GP notes about the impact depression was having on 
Miss S. Theres reference in November 2018 to Miss S feeling stable at present and in 
April 2019 - so after the end of the deferred period - theres mention of her experiencing 
panic attacks as there had been structural changes at work which mightve resulted in a 
change of management, but her mood was objectively euthymic. 
During the period Miss S was signed off work sick, she was prescribed anti-depressant 
medication. But her symptoms are largely self-reported, and I dont think Unum has acted 
unreasonably by concluding that she was unable, by reason of her illness, to perform the 
material and substantial duties of the role she was doing immediately before being signed off 
work sick. 
Also, most of the medical evidence suggests that the mental health issues reported by 
Miss S during the deferred period were caused by work-related issues. Although theres also 
mention of other medical conditions that she was living with at the time, Im satisfied that the 
overall evidence indicates that it was work related depression that was the main reason she 
was unable to work and thats the reason for her being unable to work on her GP sickness 
certificates during the deferred period. 
Im also satisfied that Unum has fairly concluded that it was work-related issues which were 
the main trigger for her symptoms. Theres mention of work-related issues in her GP notes 
leading up to the period she was signed off work in September 2018. 
Further, work related issues are mentioned in the occupation health reports during the 
deferred period. Its also reflected that a conclusion of the grievance process, and a 
resolution of her work concerns, would help assist Miss Ss recovery and facilitate a return to 
work. A report dated 21 February 2019 says Miss S still feels the main barrier to her return to work is her work concerns. And that Miss S didnt feel there has been any resolution of 
her work concerns which may have been helpful to assist recovery and facilitate her return to 
work.
So, although Miss S had been signed off work by her GP, and not capable of working  
which was supported by the opinion of occupational health - all in all the evidence supports 
that the barrier to Miss Ss return to work during the deferred period was the work-related 
issues discussed in her GP records/ occupational reports. And its unlikely the underlying 
issues she says was causing her to be off work sick wouldve existed if she was doing the 
same role at a different employer.
Im therefore satisfied Unum has reasonably concluded that she wasnt incapacitated, as 
defined by the policy, throughout the deferred period. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account the more recent medical evidence Miss S 
submitted in support of her claim including a letter from her medical practice dated October 
2019. Its reflected that Miss S had presented with symptoms of severe mixed depression
and anxiety triggered by work-related stress before she was signed off work in September 
2018. Further: her mixed depression and anxiety would have had led to a reduction in her 
level of functioning and impacted her abilities to carry out her daily duties. I am of the opinion 
that the stress that she experienced at work has triggered and exacerbated her mixed 
depression.
However, Ive placed less weight on this medical evidence as its from after the deferred 
period and Im more persuaded by the what was written in the GP notes  and occupational 
health reports  during the deferred period.
Ive also considered all other points raised by Miss S, including that Unum didnt obtain 
medical reports from her other medical professionals before declining her claim. Thats not 
unusual and, in this case, I dont think Unum acted unreasonably. Miss Ss GP records set 
out the entries made by her GP at the time Miss S contacted them, the symptoms Miss S 
was reporting and the medical advice / treatment shed received. It also had her occupation 
health reports.  So, for those reasons  and because Im considering whether Unum acted 
fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances at the time it made the decision to decline the 
claim - I havent requested any further medical evidence from Miss Ss medical professionals 
as shes asked.  Im satisfied that isnt necessary.  
Miss S also says she wasnt assessed by Unums doctor. But I can see that her claim  
along with the medical evidence  was referred to its medical team for review and they 
provided their input from a medical perspective before the claim, and subsequent appeal, 
was declined. I dont think that was unreasonable or that, in this case, it acted unfairly by its 
medical team not meeting Miss S to carry out a medical assessment in person; instead 
relying on the medical evidence it had.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman