DRN-1285284
 
The complaint
 Miss S says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy, which started in 1997, helped protect Miss S mortgage payments if she couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss S disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss S case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont have all of the information from the time of the sale in 
this case. For example, we dont have a copy of the mortgage or PPI application forms 
Miss S signed. None of this is surprising given the sale took place so long ago. That said, 
Ive still reached a conclusion taking into account the available evidence, and knowledge and 
experience of these types of sales.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
As theres little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant say for sure what Miss S was told 
or that it was made clear the PPI was optional. Equally, Ive seen no evidence to support 
what shes said about HSBC not mentioning PPI to her or making it clear this was optional. 
Taking everything into account, I think its just as likely Miss S was told about the PPI, that it 
was optional and that she agreed for it to be added. I can understand if she doesnt recall 
any of that now, so many years later.
So, I dont have enough evidence to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Looking at other aspects of the sale, its possible HSBC recommended the PPI to Miss S. If 
so, HSBC needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for her. I cant be sure it took 
those steps, although I think the PPI was probably right for her in any case. 
For example, Miss S would have been eligible for the cover. While the PPI included 
restrictions on the cover, such as for claims for pre-existing medical conditions, I cant see 
that Miss S would have been affected by them. 
Miss S says, if she fell ill, shed have received only limited sick pay. She also says she had 
some savings but it appears they would only have kept her going for a few months. The PPI benefits, on the other hand, would have paid out on top of that, and for up to 12 months per 
disability or unemployment claim. 
Given Miss S had arranged a mortgage  an important, long-term, financial commitment that 
was secured against her home  I think the cover provided her with worthwhile extra 
security. 
In saying that, Ive thought about everything Miss S has told us, including that she held 
alternative insurance that meant she didnt also need PPI. But, the policy schedule shes 
sent in indicates that particular policy didnt start until 2008  more than ten years after she 
was sold PPI by HSBC. Her broker also mentions another policy, although theyve only 
confirmed that cover started sometime prior to 2002 and ended in 2003. 
As such, Im not persuaded on balance that Miss S held any other relevant insurances in 
1997.
It was also for HSBC to give Miss S enough information about the PPI so she could make an 
informed choice about whether it was right for her. I dont know exactly what information 
Miss S got during the sale. But, for the same reasons I think PPI was right for her and was 
affordable, I dont think better information about it would have put her off buying it.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Miss S has lost out because of how HSBC 
sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman