DRN-3891739
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
that was made on her motor insurance policy by a third party. 
What happened
Mrs W had a car insurance policy with Advantage. In April 2022 she was involved in a 
collision with a cyclist. Mrs W reported the incident to the police and to Advantage, but she 
didnt make a claim. As she didnt hear anything more, she assumed nothing had come of it. 
About two months later Advantage told her the cyclist had made a claim for injury on her 
policy and it was unable to prove the other party was responsible for the incident. So, it had 
decided to settle the claim as a fault claim against her policy. Mrs W denied being 
responsible for the accident and complained about the way Advantage had handled the 
matter. She said it hadnt contacted the witness shed told them about and hadnt considered 
all the information shed provided.
Advantage said it had tried to contact the witness Mrs W had given details about, but it 
hadnt been successful. It said the cyclist had said Mrs W hadnt indicated before pulling into 
the side road across his path and hadnt given him time to avoid the accident. Advantage 
said that if the case went to court, it believed the judge would rule that Mrs W had a 
responsibility to check it was safe to make the manoeuvre before pulling into the side road. 
Advantage concluded it hadnt been safe for her to do that. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Advantage to record a fault claim against 
Mrs Ws policy. They thought Advantage could have made more attempts to contact the 
witness but they didnt think that would have changed how fault was recorded. They noted 
that the cyclist wasnt insured and so fault was always likely to be recorded against Mrs W 
anyway. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Advantage to record the claim as 
fault against Mrs Ws policy and to consider the cyclists injury claim. 
As Mrs W didnt agree, her complaint has been forwarded to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about whats happened, as in this case, I base my decision on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence available. Youll note 
that I havent commented in this decision on all the evidence provided but I have carefully 
considered it.
I recognise that Mrs W feels frustrated shes been held at fault when she believes the cyclist 
was at fault for the collision. I should explain that its not our role at this service to decide 
who was responsible for causing the accident. That is the role of the courts. Instead, our role 
in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to 
settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy? And has it treated Mrs W the same as someone else in her position. 
Mrs Ws policy, in common with many car insurance policies, contains whats known as a 
subrogation clause. The condition allows an insurer to agree liability for incidents with third 
parties without the agreement of the policyholder. The terms and conditions of Mrs Ws 
policy include the following: 
Your insurer has the right to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
under the Policy for its own benefit. This includes taking proceedings in your name, or in the 
name of any other person claiming under the Policy, at its own expense.
And 
If they feel its appropriate, your Insurer will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs 
covered under this Policy on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity under the 
Policy.
These are common terms in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them unusual. 
Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether or not its reasonable to 
contest a third-party claim. And I think it's fair for Advantage to say itll only proceed to take a 
liability dispute to court, and potentially incur significant costs, if its confident on the 
evidence available that it would be successful. It has no obligation to pursue a matter to 
court simply because a policyholder says the other party was at fault.
That said, we expect an insurer to investigate a claim fairly and reasonably and consider the 
evidence available before making its decision on liability. One of Mrs Ws concerns is that 
Advantage didnt do that. She said it didnt get evidence from the witness and it didnt 
consider all of her evidence before reaching its decision. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs W was given an opportunity to provide evidence and 
that this was then considered by Advantage. I can see that Advantage made its initial 
decision before Mrs W provided a full written account of what happened, including 
photographs shed taken in support of her account. But it had spoken to her about the 
accident over the phone beforehand. And Advantage then considered the further evidence 
she provided, and the evidence provided by the cyclist, before it issued its final response to 
her complaint.
As for the witness, Advantage said it tried to contact him but it was unsuccessful. So, I think 
Advantage acted fairly by trying to contact the witness. It could perhaps have tried contacting 
the witness again. But, on balance, I dont think it would have made a difference to the 
outcome. Mrs W had already told Advantage what the witness had said - that the cyclist had 
come out of nowhere and crashed straight into the side of her car. It was for Advantage to 
decide whether to pursue the matter further and in this case I think it was reasonable for it to 
decide not to. Let me explain why.
The circumstances of the incident are that Mrs W turned right from the main road into a side 
road which led to a car park, and the cyclist rode into the side of her car as she entered the 
side road. Mrs W says she didnt see the cyclist, and the witness said the cyclist had come 
out of nowhere. For his part, the cyclist says he was aware of Mrs Ws car coming along the 
main road but he says she didnt indicate before she turned right and even though he 
shouted, it was too late to avoid an impact. 
Advantage referred to the Highway Code and said that as Mrs W was making the 
manoeuvre to turn right, she had a responsibility to ensure it was safe to do so. That 
included looking out for other road users, including cyclists. And based on what Mrs W and the cyclist had said, it concluded that it hadnt been safe for her to carry out the manoeuvre. 
The Highway Code says motorists should take extra care at junctions and they should watch 
out for cyclists as they are not always easy to see. In this case, Mrs W said she didnt see 
the cyclist until he collided with her car. That might be because the cyclist was on an electric 
bike and he was travelling so fast that Mrs W hadnt seen him. That would also tally with 
what the witness said about the cyclist coming out of nowhere. But the impact itself doesnt 
appear to have been significant  it resulted in limited damage to her car  and that might 
indicate the cyclist wasnt travelling particularly fast, at least when they collided. Its also a 
possibility that Mrs W didnt see the cyclist because she hadnt checked to see if it was safe 
for her to make the right turn. 
Mrs W has also pointed out that the cyclist was riding his bike on the pavement and the 
Highway Code says that cyclists must not cycle on pavements. I think thats a significant 
point. But, on balance, I dont think the cyclist riding on the pavement negates Mrs Ws 
responsibility to make sure its safe to turn into the side road. 
Advantage also had to take account of the cyclists version of events and that included his 
statement that Mrs W didnt indicate before she turned right. That is also a significant point 
that it couldnt overlook.
Advantage will have experience of how courts view such matters (motorist and cyclist 
accidents), and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. And, taking all of these 
points together, I think it was fair for Advantage not to take that route and to hold Mrs W at 
fault.
I understand Mrs W feels strongly about this but, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law 
to decide liability. Advantage considered the evidence and reached the conclusion that 
Mrs W was at fault. What Ive looked at is whether Advantage has followed the policy terms 
and exercised its discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the case as it has 
done here. And Im satisfied it has. So, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything to put 
things right in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman