DRN-2187974
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the repairs carried out to her laptop computer by Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) following a claim under her contents insurance policy.
What happened
A claim was made to Lloyds by Miss L for damage to three laptop computers. Whilst in use, 
they had fallen, and each had suffered damage. 
The claim was accepted by Lloyds as covered under the accidental damage section of 
Miss Ls policy. Two laptops were beyond repair and a cash settlement was made. One 
laptop was deemed repairable, and Lloyds supplier carried out the repairs.
When the laptop was returned to Miss L, she complained that the battery no longer charged 
and the laptop was considerably heavier and was no longer portable. Miss L also said the 
base and software were different.
Lloyds contacted their supplier who carried out the repairs. They said they only replaced the 
screen and hadnt done any further repairs to the laptop. They also said the battery had 
come to the end of its life, which theyd noted when they received the laptop for repair. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint and she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He looked at all the 
information but didnt conclude Lloyds was responsible for making the laptop heavier, 
changing the base or software, or damaging the battery. 
Miss L didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss L says the laptop is heavier, the battery no longer charges, and the software and base 
have been changed. Lloyds supplier says that they arent responsible for this, as they only 
replaced the screen and didnt carry out any further repairs. Where there are conflicting 
positions, Ive considered what is more likely to have happened, based on all the evidence 
that is available. 
The laptop in question was inspected by Lloyds and it was determined that a repair was 
possible, so Lloyds appointed its supplier. 
Lloyds supplier completed a report upon receipt of the damaged laptop. They carried out 
diagnostic tests which were passed, and concluded that a new screen was required. They 
also noted, amongst other things, that the laptop had general wear and tear and the battery 
had reached end of life and no longer charged.
On balance, this would indicate that the battery was suffering issues before Lloyds supplier 
carried out repairs and returned the laptop to Miss L. So, based on all the information, Im 
unable to conclude the battery problem has solely happened because of the repair by 
Lloyds supplier.
Miss L says that the laptop is now much heavier, and the base has been replaced, along 
with the software. She says the laptop is so heavy its no longer portable. Miss L says that a 
relative used the laptop before it was sent for repair, and they agree with her. So she says 
this shows Lloyds is responsible. However, the repairer has confirmed they only replaced the 
screen. Theyve said they havent replaced the base or carried out any other repairs.
Miss L has said Lloyds mentioned it must have been her who changed it. And Miss L has 
questioned why she would do this as it makes no sense. But Im not deciding here who it 
was specifically, beyond whether there is enough for me to conclude that Lloyds (or their 
supplier) was responsible for this.
So I have two conflicting versions of what has happened. Miss L says the supplier did, and 
the supplier says they didnt. In the absence of any other independent reports which show 
this either way, Ive considered what is more likely to have happened based on the 
information I have. 
It was only the screen which needed replacing, and the supplier wasnt asked to change the 
base or software by Lloyds, and didnt need to do so in order to carry out a repair. So, Im 
unable to conclude on balance, based on all the information provided, that its more likely 
than not that the supplier has changed the base or the software, as there appears to be no 
reason for them to do so.
And as Ive mentioned above, the report also indicates the laptop was suffering with battery 
problems prior to the repairs being carried out. So on balance, Im not able to hold Lloyds 
responsible for this either.
So with this in mind, Im not going to direct Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman