DRN-3711790
Complaint
Miss H has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George Banco.com) 
unfairly accepted her as a guarantor on a guarantor loan. She says that she was pressured 
by the borrower into being a guarantor and there was no way shed be able to make the 
payments.
Background
Miss H became the guarantor on a loan of £3,552.00 provided to the borrower in October 
2017. The loan was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was due 
to be repaid in 60 instalments of £129.06. The total amount to be repaid was £7,743.60.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that George Banco hadnt 
carried out proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than 
not have shown George Banco, Miss H would not have been able to sustainably repay the 
loan in the event she had to. George Banco disagreed with our investigator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review this complaint.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice related to guarantor loans - on 
our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Miss Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations in place when George Banco lent to the borrower required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
this loan in a sustainable manner. The existence of a guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and the potential for George Banco to pursue Miss H, instead of the borrower, for the loan 
payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
As the borrower isnt a party to this complaint, I dont have any evidence of the checks that 
George Banco carried out, or the depth that they went into, before it agreed to lend to the 
borrower. But the lack of information from both George Banco and the borrower on this 
matter doesnt lessen the problem here, as George Banco is seeking to enforce the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement. And Miss H has been called upon to make the 
payments. 
In any event, notwithstanding the conclusions reached by our investigator and for reasons Ill 
go on to explain further on, I dont think that this matters too much in this case. And as this is 
the case, I dont think that its necessary for me to make a finding on whether the checks 
George Banco carried out on the borrower were proportionate. I say this despite the 
considerable weight of information Miss H has provided about the borrower and George 
Banco is seeking to enforce the guarantee against Miss H. And both of these factors are 
indications that the monthly loan payments may have been unaffordable for the borrower in 
the first place. 
The reason I dont consider it necessary to make a finding on whether the borrower should 
have been provided with the loan is because Im satisfied that Miss H should never have 
been accepted as a guarantor on this loan. I say this because as well as carrying out 
reasonable checks to establish that the borrower could afford to make the repayments, 
George Banco also needed to carry out similar enquiries into Miss Hs circumstances to 
check that shed be able to make the payments to this loan in the event she had to.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check on 
Miss H before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss H was already 
significantly indebted. George Banco says that all bar four of Miss Hs accounts were taken 
more than a year before this loan and that shed maintained her payments. But making 
payments on previous credit doesnt in itself mean that a prospective guarantor will be able 
to repay a loan for someone else.
Im also mindful that George Bancos own checks showed that, at best, if Miss H had to 
make the payments to this loan these would take her right towards the margin of her income. 
And this was with the use of estimated expenditure even though Miss H had a dependent. 
Furthermore, this was in circumstances where Miss H was already using most of the credit 
available to her.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Miss H has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position herself at the time. And in these circumstances, I think that George Banco 
ought to have realised that Miss H simply wasnt in a position to act as a guarantor on this 
loan. As this is the case, I think that George Bancos failure to properly look into Miss Hs 
circumstances meant that unfairly accepted her as the guarantor for this loan.      
As Miss H is, at least, still being expected to make payments to a loan that she shouldnt 
have been accepted as a guarantor on, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
George Banco did wrong. And Im satisfied that George Banco needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Miss H
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for George Banco to put things right by:
releasing Miss H from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it;
refunding any loan payments that Miss H may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Miss H, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Miss Hs credit file as a result of this loan;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give  Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right for Miss H in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman