DRN-1529906
 
The complaint
Mr B complains of the poor administration of his policy by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited. He says he wasn't notified of his motor insurance policy being cancelled and he is 
being charged costs as a result.
Reference to Advantage in this decision includes those acting on its behalf.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B's direct debit failed to collect his monthly insurance premium. He was 
written to, at his correct address, to notify him of this and that another attempt would be 
made. The second attempt also failed and so Mr B was written to a second time; he was told 
his outstanding balance and informed that if it wasn't paid by 25 April 2019 his policy would 
be cancelled.
Mr B didn't bring his account up to date. Advantage wrote to him on 26 April and again on 3 
May 2019 to inform him the policy had been cancelled and that there was still an outstanding 
balance owed. Towards the end of May 2019, Mr B was involved in an accident. He 
phoned Advantage to notify it of his claim. The out of hours claim team didn't have full 
access to realise his policy was cancelled. And so it wasn't until a few days later, and after 
his car had already been recovered to storage, that Mr B was informed he didn't have cover 
and so he would need to reimburse the costs incurred by Advantage.
Mr B complained as he said he hadn't been notified of the cancellation. He was unhappy 
about being unable his properly access the policy portal and that he was being asked to 
reimburse costs. Advantage upheld his complaint in part; it was satisfied it had correctly 
notified him of the failed direct debit and so it was satisfied Mr B should be liable for recovery 
and storage costs, but it did agree it shouldn't have logged the claim and so offered Mr B 
£50 for the inconvenience.
After sending its file Advantage clarified that it was only seeking the reimbursement of two 
recoveries; one to the storage yard and another from it, after Mr B had failed to arrange his 
own recovery. This totalled £450 inclusive of VAT. Mr B provided evidence to show he could 
have arranged recovery of his vehicle from the scene for £40.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He didn't think it fair that Mr B should 
reimburse Advantage for the initial recovery of his vehicle as he would have been able to 
arrange that had he been told he didn't have cover. But as Mr B had been provided with an 
opportunity to arrange collection of his vehicle from storage but hadn't, he felt it fair for 
Advantage to ask for reimbursement of the remainder.
Advantage agreed, but Mr B didn't. He said he tried to arrange collection of his vehicle but 
was messed around by Advantage and the original recovery agent. He said he had email 
evidence of this. We asked for a copy, but Mr B hasn't been able to provide anything 
showing this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm satisfied from the evidence provided that Mr B was notified both of the direct debit failure 
and of the policy being cancelled, and that he had been provided sufficient opportunity to 
rectify that.
Advantage accepts that it shouldn't have allowed a claim to be registered when there was no 
longer any cover being provided. It rightly offered Mr B compensation for that - £50 -  which I 
understand it has already paid. And it has accepted that Mr B would have been able to 
arrange recovery from the scene, had it reminded him he didn't have cover. So it agreed with 
the investigator's findings about that.
That leaves £225 to cover the cost of removing the vehicle from storage to a place of Mr B's 
choosing. I have considered that Mr B's vehicle wouldn't have been in storage, and so 
wouldn't have needed further transporting, had the claim not been set up. But its right that I 
take into account that Mr B ought to have been aware he wasn't insured and that he was 
provided with sufficient time to arrange his own transportation, having been informed of the 
storage whereabouts on 4 June but the vehicle still not having been removed by 14 June. 
Indeed, Advantage's notes suggest Mr B agreed for Advantage to arrange transportation of 
his vehicle as he couldn't afford the cost immediately, and that he would reimburse it later.
I have considered Mr B's submissions about being messed around by the parties involved. 
But he hasn't provided persuasive evidence in support of this, despite saying he had it. And 
this isn't borne out by Advantage's notes. Overall, I'm satisfied Mr B was given sufficient 
opportunity to arrange his own transportation and that Advantage is entitled to seek 
reimbursement of £225.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to reduce the amount it is seeking from Mr B to 
£225. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman