DRN-4346436
The complaint
Mr G complains about the price charged by Covea Insurance plc (Covea) to renew his car 
insurance policy. Hes also concerned about a claim recorded against his policy.   
What happened
Mr G says he was involved in a minor accident  while reversing his car, he brushed against 
the third partys car. Mr G says the third party decided not to pursue this at the time. Mr G 
says he then received a letter from Covea around nine months later to say the third party 
was claiming for damage caused to their car. Mr G says he spoke with Covea and they 
assured him he didnt need to worry about this and the matter was closed. Mr G then 
received a renewal invite and noticed the price hed been quoted was significantly higher 
than what hed paid the previous year. Mr G complained about this and about being given an 
assurance that he didnt need to worry about the claim. Covea responded and explained the 
incident had been treated as a fault claim and this had affected the price. Covea said they 
received notification of the claim, so they had to deal with this  and they found Mr G was at 
fault, so it had been recorded accurately. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He thought Covea hadnt treated Mr G unfairly 
in relation to his renewal price. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Complaint about pricing 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr G paid a premium of £472.15 in 2022 but then received a quote for £1,117.55 
in 2023. This quote is significantly higher than what Mr G paid the previous year  so I 
understand why Mr G is concerned. Covea have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mr Gs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im 
satisfied the price he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no 
evidence that other Covea customers in Mr Gs position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr G would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. I cant provide specific detail about Coveas 
risk model, but Ive seen the rating factors and loadings applied by Covea. This shows the 
claim did affect the price increase. I acknowledge Mr G feels this is unfair as the third partys 
car sustained no damage, and even if it did, it was no more than very minor scratches. But 
theres no dispute about there being an incident for which Mr G was at fault. Its for a 
business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to 
those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. In this case, I can see the price 
charged by Covea has taken into account the claim. I acknowledge this has had the effect of 
increasing Mr Gs premium considerably above the price he paid the previous year. But I 
cant say theyve acted unfairly in applying any additional loading to any rating factors 
affected by the fault claim. So, I cant say Mr G has been treated differently or unfairly by 
Covea in taking this approach. 
Complaint about the third partys claim 
Mr G queries what evidence the third party have provided in relation to the claim and he 
says he hasnt seen any information of the costs paid out. At the time of the calls between 
Mr G and Covea, I cant see the third party had submitted any claim for repair costs  and 
Covea do explain this to Mr G. I think its important here to make clear, the increase in 
premium hasnt been directly affected by any costs paid out, but by the fault claim now 
appearing against Mr Gs policy. At the point the renewal was calculated, this open claim 
was recorded against Mr Gs policy. So, even though no repair costs appear to have been 
paid out at that point, it wasnt unfair for the open claim to still be recorded.   
I understand Mr G is concerned the third party left it nine months before making a claim.    
Mr G says the third party clearly didnt want to make a claim at the time of the incident and 
they acknowledged there hadnt been any damage so they shouldnt be allowed to change 
their mind. I do acknowledge Mr Gs frustration, but I cant say Covea have acted 
unreasonably in dealing with the claim. During calls with Mr G, Covea explain they have a 
legal obligation to deal with the claim, particularly as they were then made aware by Mr G 
that an incident did occur. 
I understand Mr G feels Covea shouldve queried with the third party why they decided to 
leave it nine months to make a claim. Looking at the information provided, it appears the 
third party first notified Covea of the claim around a month after the incident. It appears 
Covea didnt receive this letter and they then respond, and notify Mr G, when the third 
partys insurer chases for a response in April the following year. So, it doesnt appear the 
third party delayed in providing notification of the claim  instead it appears the original 
notification wasnt received. I acknowledge the third partys insurer then didnt chase until 
eight months later, but I cant say Covea are responsible for any delay here. And I can see 
Covea did then take action once they received the further communication.  
Complaint about the phone call with Covea 
Mr G says, during a call with Covea in April 2023, he was informed he didnt need to worry 
about the claim, and he didnt need to do anything as the claim would be closed. Ive listened 
to this call, but I cant say the call handler suggested the claim would be closed. Covea sent 
a letter to Mr G explaining theyd received notification of a claim from a third party. Mr G then 
calls Covea and explains he doesnt understand what incident is referred to in the letter. The 
call handler queries whether Mr G is aware of any incident that mightve occurred. Mr G then describes an incident which occurred while he was reversing his car, but he says the third 
party decided not to take any action. The call handler then explains the third party had 
described the incident in the same way Mr G had. The call handler says, This will be 
recorded as a fault claim and theres nothing Mr G needs to do, and he doesnt need to 
pay anything. 
The call handler also explains that when it comes to Mr Gs renewal, there will be a claim 
showing on his policy. Mr G asks what he needs to do now, and the call handler explains he 
doesnt need to do anything unless he wants his car repaired. Mr G explains theres only a 
little paint off his bumper, so he wont be claiming. He then asks, Is that the end of it then? 
and the call handler says, In terms of anything you need to do, yes, you dont need to do 
anything else. All we do now is we will deal with the other partys claim The call handler 
again reassures Mr G he doesnt need to worry about anything and Covea will be dealing 
with the third partys claim. I acknowledge the call handler reassures Mr G a number of times 
that he doesnt need to worry, but I believe this was more in the context that he wont need 
to take any further action as Covea will handle the claim. I cant say Covea suggested at any 
point during the call that they wouldnt deal with the claim and would take steps to close it.     
I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman