DRN-2661892
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs T complain that NRAM Limited mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
In 2005, Mr C and Mrs T took out a mortgage with PPI.
The policy covered them both for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included 
some other cover but Im concentrating in my decision on their complaint that NRAM mis-
sold them the PPI. 
Mr C and Mrs T complained to NRAM that the policy had been added to their mortgage 
account without their knowledge or consent. When they werent able to settle their complaint 
directly with NRAM, Mr C and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr C and Mrs T didnt agree with this view and 
theyve asked for their case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Ts case.
After careful consideration, Ive reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator and Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr C and Mrs T to remember exactly what was 
discussed when they took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what they 
say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. Where theres only 
limited information I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether NRAM gave Mr C and Mrs T a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr C and Mrs T 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Mr C and Mrs T couldnt recall how the PPI was sold to them. NRAM says the policy was 
either sold to them in one of its branches or over the phone. Theres no recording of any call 
 but thats not surprising given that Im looking at events from over 15 years ago.
In any event, NRAM has provided a copy of the call script its agents used at the time of the 
sale. So I think its reasonable to assume this gives me a fair indication of whats likely to 
have been discussed. The script does suggest it was the usual sales process for the policy 
to be presented as optional.
Its also possible this PPI was sold to Mr C and Mrs T in a face to face meeting. I accept 
that however it was sold, I cant know exactly what was discussed about the PPI. 
But I've taken into account that PPI wasnt automatically required as part of their application 
for a mortgage. Mr C and Mrs T would've had to fill in a separate PPI application to take out 
PPI. And it seems they did that because I've seen the letter that NRAM sent them thanking 
them for their completed application. 
I've also seen a copy of Mr C and Mrs Ts mortgage offer. 
This clearly states that Mr C and Mrs T werent required to take out any insurance with 
NRAM - and that the only insurance they were required to take out with their mortgage 
wasnt PPI. 
And, under the heading, in bold print on Mr C and Mrs Ts mortgage offer, Optional 
Insurance you do not have to take out , it says: 
You have asked us to arrange Payment Protection Insurance providing you with a monthly 
benefit of £525.00.
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr C and Mrs Ts mortgage without their agreement. 
On balance, having taken into account the information I've seen and been told, I think that 
NRAM made Mr C and Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
I dont think that NRAM recommended the PPI to Mr C and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if 
it was suitable for them. But it did have to make sure Mr C and Mrs T got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. And if this didnt happen, then I need to 
consider if Mr C and Mrs T wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if clearer 
information had been provided. 
Mr C and Mrs T were both in work and contributing to the monthly mortgage repayments. 
So, I think it was appropriate for the policy to be taken out in both their names. It looks like 
they probably had a discussion about how to share the PPI and the benefit was split 
between them in the way that reflected their particular wishes at the time. And I can 
understand why they mightve felt PPI was useful for both of them to have. 
Only Mrs T was entitled to any sick pay  and she wasnt sure how much that wouldve been 
or how long it wouldve been paid for. 
The policy couldve protected Mr C and Mrs Ts mortgage monthly repayments for up to 
12 months per claim in the event either (or both of them) couldnt work as a result of an 
accident or illness. And it wouldve been paid in addition to Mrs Ts work benefits. 
So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit  especially if Mr C and Mrs T 
mightve had extra costs as a result of being off work due to illness or disability. 
As well as this, the policy also covered Mr C and Mrs T in the event they became 
unexpectedly unemployed.  Mr C and Mrs T havent sent me any details showing how they wouldve been able to make 
their mortgage monthly repayments if they werent able to work. So I think that having a 
monthly benefit that protected their mortgage repayments couldve been a useful benefit at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if theyd needed to claim.
There were some things the policy didnt cover  like paying out for absence from work for 
some pre-existing medical conditions. Mrs T told us she had a medical condition at the 
time. 
But I can see that NRAM highlighted this policy limitation and drew it specifically to 
Mr C and Mrs Ts attention when it wrote to them after they applied for the PPI. 
So Mr C and Mrs T wouldve been able to make an informed decision about whether or not 
they wanted to go ahead with the policy, knowing about this policy limitation. 
I've taken into account that at all times Mrs T would still have benefitted from all the other 
aspects of the policy. And it doesnt look like Mr C was affected by any of the policy 
limitations or exclusions. 
Given the problems that arise when mortgage payments arent kept up to date and bearing 
in mind Mr C and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, it still looks to me like the PPI was 
useful in their situation. So the fact that Mrs T had a pre-existing medical condition isnt 
enough of a reason for me to be able to uphold this complaint.
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr C and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Mr C and Mrs T chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to 
have it - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
The approximate amount they would have to pay each month for the PPI was set out on 
their mortgage offer  so they had an idea of the cost in advance. 
And the actual monthly cost was confirmed in a letter NRAM sent Mr C and Mrs T when 
their mortgage completed  several weeks before their first PPI payment was due to go 
out of their bank account. 
Mr C and Mrs T couldve cancelled the policy and got a full refund within the first 30 days  
and they couldve cancelled it at any time afterwards at no extra cost if they decided it 
wasnt something they wanted to pay for each month. 
So I think its fair and reasonable to say that it seems Mr C and Mrs T were happy at the time 
to pay for PPI. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered them, I think it unlikely Mr C and Mrs T 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover in the first place.
This means that I dont think Mr C and Mrs T lost out as a result of anything NRAM did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman