DRN-2569734
The complaint
Mr M complains about the performance of the with profits policy he had with Phoenix Life
Assurance Limited. He complains that no annual bonuses were credited to his policy after 
2002. 
He also complains that he has lost out financially because he was not sent annual 
statements between 1999 and 2015. He said had he received these, he wouldve 
transferred his policy away due to the lack of bonuses and low probability of a terminal 
bonus.
He further says that Phoenix Life misinformed him by not telling him that there was 
unlikely to be a terminal bonus.
What happened
In 1988, Mr M transferred his pension plan into a Section 32 policy
 with Phoenix Life, investing in a with-profits fund  the profit-sharing account. 
From 1988 to 1999 he received annual policy statements, which showed annual bonuses 
being added to his policy.
In May 2013, Mr M was sent a letter enclosing his annual statement for the year ended 31 
December 2011. The letter also included an apology, acknowledging that recent annual 
statements hadnt been sent due to a systems error. Mr M was told he could ask for the 
missing statements if he wanted them.
In November 2014, Phoenix Life sent Mr M details about his retirement options. It was 
explained that if any money remained in the fund as at his Normal Retirement Date (NRD) 
(May 2015) then these automatically would be switched into the capital account.
In June 2016, Mr M was sent his annual statement for the year ending 31 December 2015. 
He was informed that the capital account did not qualify for terminal bonuses.
In March 2019, Mr M asked for details of the benefits available under his policy. In 
September 2019, Mr M asked Phoenix Life about the annual bonuses applied to his policy 
throughout its full term. Upon obtaining this information, he complained to Phoenix Life.
Phoenix Life issued a final response letter in December 2019. It did not uphold his 
complaint about the performance of his with profits policy. But acknowledged that it had 
done something wrong, in that it had provided him with inaccurate bonus information and 
there had been some delay providing the correct information. It offered him £200 in total for 
the trouble and upset he had been caused by these shortcomings.  
Mr M complained also about the missing statements. In 2020, Phoenix Life offered him a 
further £100 for the trouble and upset caused by not receiving these annual statements for 
the period 1999 to 2012.
Mr M didnt accept Phoenix Lifes offer of settlement and complained to our service. Our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and did not uphold it. Mr M didnt accept our 
investigators recommendations and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr M doesnt think that £300 offered in total is sufficient to compensate him for 
his loss.
In August 2020, Mr M transferred his pension into a self-invested personal pension plan 
(SIPP). 
Mr Ms complaint now comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigators have pointed out - what needs to be decided here is whether Mr M has 
lost out financially because Phoenix Life didnt send him annual statements so that he 
could see how his fund was performing. Secondly, whether Phoenix Life has done anything 
wrong in the way it has dealt with the with profits fund he was invested in. Further whether 
it has miscommunicated his entitlement to a terminal bonus.
I have not looked at whether Mr M was given suitable advice to transfer into the section 32 
policy in the first place as Phoenix Life wasnt his adviser.
With Profits Policy
This services role is limited in relation to with-profits policies. The way in which a product 
provider manages investments and decides to pay a bonus is a matter for its own 
commercial judgment and the performance of a with-profits fund doesn't necessarily reflect 
the performance of the stock market. At the time this policy was taken out, much higher 
investment returns were expected than actually materialised in the financial markets. 
As explained by our adjudicator, the Financial Conduct Authority requires businesses 
to provide investors with details of its Principles and Practices of Financial 
Management, explaining how it manages its with-profits investments. This service has 
not been made aware of any concerns the FCA has about Phoenix Lifes 
management of its with profits fund. So, I cant fairly conclude that Phoenix Life acted 
unfairly by not paying these discretionary annual and terminal bonuses.
Missing statements
Up until 1999 annual bonuses were credited to Mr Ms policy.
Mr M said he did not receive any annual statements between 1999 and 2015. Clearly, he 
shouldve been sent these. Phoenix Life has accepted that there was a gap between 1999 
and 2012 when he wasnt sent these statements. So, I will go on to consider whether Mr M 
has lost out because of not receiving his annual statements.
However, whilst its clear that Phoenix Life did do something wrong, I think Mr M couldve 
possibly done more to reduce any financial loss that he may have experienced as a result 
of this. 
Ive seen Phoenix Lifes letter of 26 May 2013, addressed to Mr M at the address he was 
living at, at that time, and at which he received other correspondence from Phoenix Life, which he did respond to. I cant know if Mr M received this letter. But I think it more likely 
that he did, and he may not remember that now. So, I think he was sent the 2011 statement 
with this letter. 
Ive also taken into account, that Mr M didnt receive statements over quite an extended 
period. But, Ive not been told that he chased these up. I think it shouldve been apparent 
they werent being sent, given the time this went on for. Further, after I think he received 
the letter in May 2013, which told him he could ask for the missing statements, Ive not 
heard he asked for them.
The terminal bonus
Phoenix Life said that before Mr Ms policy was switched out of the profit-sharing account, 
into the capital account, any terminal bonus wouldve been added before switching. It said 
a terminal bonus was not added because over the period from 2010 to 2020 no terminal 
bonuses were paid. 
On the 2011 annual statement, included with the 2013 letter, there was a note 
about the profit-sharing account. It said As previously advised, our approach is 
not to add any new annual bonuses but to allocate additional returns by way of a 
final bonus instead. 
I think Mr M understood at the outset that bonuses were not guaranteed. I dont 
think what was said in the 2011 statement changed Mr Ms entitlement in any way 
or conveyed a definite intention to pay a terminal bonus. 
When Mr M reached NRD in 2015, his fund was transferred to the capital account. I can 
see that he was given advance notice that would happen if he still had funds in the with 
profits policy at NRD. I dont think Mr M was clearly told in the 2014 correspondence, that 
he would not be eligible for a terminal bonus in the capital account. This was confirmed in 
his June 2016 annual statement. 
However, I cant see hes lost out as a terminal bonus was not paid out in the with-profits 
policy at that time either, so its unlikely one wouldve been paid in the capital account he 
switched to, even if terminal bonuses applied to that account. Ive also noted that Mr M 
was receiving statements by this time, to monitor his policy.
Financial loss 
Our service looks to put consumers back in the same position they wouldve been in had an 
error not occurred. 
Mr M accepted that he was aware that annual bonuses were not guaranteed. 
Like our adjudicator, Im not persuaded that if Mr M been told at the time that annual 
bonuses were not being paid, and he may not get a terminal bonus, that he wouldve 
transferred his policy away from Phoenix Life prior to 2015. Ill explain why.
As well as being invested in the with-profits fund, Mr Ms policy also had a guaranteed 
assured sum available at NRD (in 2015). 
The transfer value of his policy as at 31 December 2011 was £9,585.36 (as set out in the 
May 2013 correspondence) The guaranteed value of the plan in May 2015 was £20,504.73. This was a guaranteed amount and not subject to investment risk or 
discretionary bonuses. Given the difference in values, and the time to retirement, I think it 
unlikely Mr M wouldve transferred his policy away before he reached NRD, as he wouldve 
lost this valuable guarantee. I say this taking into account from policy inception in 1988 to 
Mr Ms NRD, the investment return wouldve needed to be in the region of 6.5% per year to 
reach the level of the guarantee.
After May 2015, Mr M was receiving annual statements and was eligible to receive the 
guaranteed assured amount. So, I think it was up to Mr M to decide whether he wanted 
to transfer or not after that time.
Taking all of this into account, I cant see that Mr M has lost out financially as a result of 
Phoenix Lifes failure to send him the statements.
Non-financial loss
Its not in dispute that Phoenix Lifes shortcomings have caused Mr M some trouble and 
upset and on more than one occasion. But, I consider that overall, £300 is a fair amount to 
compensate him for this. I think this award is in line with other awards made by our service.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. If Phoenix Life has not done so already, it should pay Mr M 
£300 for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman