The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the decision of Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to decline 
his motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy underwritten by Watford Insurance. In August 2018, Mr G 
was involved in a road traffic accident, resulting in damage to his car and to two other 
vehicles that were parked adjacent to the road. As a result of the circumstances of the 
accident, Mr G was convicted of dangerous driving. 
Mr G claimed under the policy, but Watford Insurance declined the claim. Watford Insurance 
relied on a general exclusion in the policy that referred to exclusions contained in Mr G's 
certificate of insurance. The certificate provided that claims relating to the following were 
excluded from cover:
"Hiring, racing formally or informally against another motorist, pace-making, 
competitions, track days, rallies, trials or tests, speed trials or test, either on a road, 
track or at an off road 4x4 event."
The policy also contained similar exclusions specific to the relevant areas of cover, which 
said that claims under those sections will not be covered if:
"...Your Car is used on the Nrburgring Nordschleife, or for racing formally or 
informally against another motorist, pace-making, competitions, rallies, Track Days, 
trials or tests, speed trials or speed tests, either on a road, track, or at an off-road 4x4 
event."
Watford Insurance said that the police report from the incident clearly stated Mr G was 
racing. This part of the report says:
"U1 and U2 have been racing along [the road] both vehicles have over taken another 
vehicle and upon doing so have collided with each other causing U1 to veer 
across carriageway into parked cars"
Mr G complained, saying that he had not been racing and had just been overtaking the car in 
front, which had then pulled out across his path leading to the crash. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Watford Insurance provided us with CCTV footage of the incident. This clip shows the few 
seconds before the incident and the manoeuvre and crash itself. There has been some 
reference to further footage, but this appears to be a smaller version of the same footage.
DRN-1879814Watford insurance also provided a report from a specialist liability adjusting practice, which 
included a statement from Mr G about the accident. The report referred to the CCTV footage 
as showing two vehicles driving in an unsafe manner. And concluded that it could not be 
ruled out that the two vehicles were racing each other. But also gave other potential causes, 
such as it being an act of road rage or due to a history between the drivers of the two 
vehicles. 
Our investigator was not persuaded that it was fair or reasonable for Watford Insurance to 
decline Mr G's claim based on the evidence provided. She did not consider the 
CCTV footage was conclusive as to whether Mr G was racing at the time of the incident. And 
the report from Watford Insurance's expert offered a number of potential reasons for the 
accident. She also wasn't persuaded that the police officer's comments that the cars had 
been "racing along" were clear that the cars were "racing formally or informally against 
another motorist". 
Overall, our investigator was not persuaded that Watford Insurance had demonstrated that it 
was fair and reasonable to apply the exclusion it had. She recommended that Mr G's claim 
be upheld, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, and that 8% simple interest be added 
to the claim settlement from the date of loss to the date of settlement.  She also 
recommended that Watford Insurance pay Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by the unfair decline of his claim.
Watford Insurance did not agree. They said the CCTV footage showed the vehicles travelling 
at a considerable speed - clearly in excess of the 30-40mph Mr G had claimed he was 
travelling at. They said the damage caused to Mr G's car and the fact air bags were 
deployed also added weight to the speed being excessive. 
Watford Insurance also said that there was no cause for the overtaking manoeuvres and that 
Mr G had not mitigated the risk by pulling back from the manoeuvre. They referred to the fact 
he was convicted of dangerous driving, pointing out that racing is considered an element of 
dangerous driving. And indicated the penalty he received from the court added to there 
being a racing element. Watford Insurance also said that Mr G had not provided evidence 
from the police or the court to show he was not racing. 
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her mind though and so this complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
For the sake of clarity, I will add that Mr G obtained his car via a finance agreement. And, 
given the vehicle has been classed a total loss, we would expect Watford Insurance to fairly 
and reasonably take this into account when settling any claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not consider Mr G's testimony around the circumstances of the accident to be the most 
reliable. And I think it is clear that he was not driving as he should have been at the time. So 
I have some sympathy with Watford Insurance's decision to decline the claim. 
However, in the case of an insurance claim, it is the responsibility of the policyholder to show 
that an insured event has occurred. And then, if the underwriter intends to decline the claim, 
they will need to demonstrate that an appropriate exclusion applies to the circumstances. In this case, Mr G has shown that he was driving his car and it was involved in an accident 
which caused damage to his car and to the vehicles of third parties. And at the time he was 
covered by the relevant insurance policy. So, on these facts, an insured event has occurred. 
In order for Watford Insurance to fairly decline this claim, in the manner that they have, they 
need to demonstrate that it is reasonable to conclude Mr G was racing at the time of the 
incident (and that the accident can fairly be attributed to this).
The term "racing" is not defined within the policy. So I consider it appropriate to apply the 
normal definition of this word, in conjunction with the framing of this within the policy 
wording. There is limited relevant case law, but I've also given consideration to that which 
exists, including Pinn v Guo & ors (2014) Swansea County Court 11 Apri, Lawtel. 
The exclusion in the policy refers to "racing formally or informally". I think racing formally 
would involve an official organised event, and I don't think there is a suggestion that Mr G 
was involved in such an event here. So the question is whether he was racing informally. 
I consider that "racing informally" would need to involve more than merely engaging in the 
type of driving that many drivers do. I think there would need to be a competitive element 
involved. Otherwise, I consider this exclusion would be too broad to be considered fair, and I 
do not think it would be reasonable for an insurer to rely upon it anyway.
So, whilst an informal race may not involve an official starter or a set of regulations, I do 
think that there would need to be certain characteristics for an event to be seen as a 
race. The judge in Pinn v Guo commented that:
"the absence of a clear course or finishing point would lead a court to conclude it was 
not racing ".
And I have seen no evidence that Mr G was following a clear course or that there was an 
established finishing point. I do appreciate that this might be difficult for Watford Insurance to 
demonstrate, but it is for them to show that this is what the events most likely involved.
Watford Insurance has placed great emphasis on the police report referring to Mr G "racing 
along". But I agree with the investigator in that it isn't clear whether the officer was referring 
to Mr G engaging in a race, or that he was hurrying along. The judge in Pinn v Guo also 
commented that:
""racing home" was not racing at all. The word was being used in that context as a 
synonym for rushing or hurrying ".
Based on the limited reference in the police report, I consider a similar conclusion can be 
drawn to the comments here. Certainly, I do not consider that the police report is clear that 
Mr G was engaged in a race. 
Watford Insurance indicated that Mr G had not provided any evidence from the police or 
court to show that he was not racing. As above, it is for Watford Insurance to show that Mr G 
was most likely racing. Only at that point would it be reasonable to ask Mr G to provide 
evidence to the contrary. And I am not persuaded that Watford Insurance has shown that Mr 
G was most likely racing. 
But, I also note that, according to media reporting, when Mr G unsuccessfully appealed his 
dangerous driving conviction, the judge commented:"There may well have been an element of showing off. We suspect strongly he knew 
who [the other driver] was but do not go as far to say he was racing.
So, I don't consider the evidence from the police at the time is conclusive as to whether they 
thought Mr G was engaged in a race or whether he was hurrying along. And the conclusions 
of the court were that they could not say Mr G was racing. 
It is of course for Watford Insurance to reach its own conclusions as to whether the relevant 
exclusion applies. But I do not consider either the police statement or the findings of the 
court support a conclusion that it does apply. 
I've also thought about the conclusions offered by the expert employed by Watford 
Insurance. They did indicate that Mr G may have been engaged in a race. But they also 
offered other potential causes, including a history between the drivers - something the court 
above also apparently referenced. So whilst the possibility of Mr G having been racing was 
seen as a potential cause of the accident, I do not consider the expert suggested this was 
the most likely cause. 
Lastly, the CCTV footage is, as the investigator has commented, limited in its duration. It 
does seem evident that Mr G was engaged in a hazardous manoeuvre. It is also possible 
this manoeuvre took place at excessive speed - although I note that there is a lack of expert 
testimony or technical assessment as to the speed of the vehicles. However, this in itself 
does not confirm Mr G was engaged in racing.
Mr G likely performed a dangerous manoeuvre, possibly at an excessive speed. But I do not 
consider this to be the normal definition of racing. And driving dangerously is not in itself an 
exclusion that applies to the policy.
Ultimately, I am not persuaded Watford Insurance has shown that it fairly or reasonably 
concluded Mr G was most likely racing at the time of the accident. So I do not consider it 
was fair or reasonable for them to decline his claim by relying on this exclusion.
Putting things right
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited should put things right by:
Meeting Mr G's claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
Adding 8% simple interest to the claim settlement, from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. Watford Insurance may be entitled to deduct tax from this interest, but if it 
does so it should tell Mr G and provide him with a certificate showing this if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim this tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Paying Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
by declining his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman