DRN-3758079
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have unfairly refused to refund £9,000 
he lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr T authorised the disputed payments he made to Coinbase from 
his Santander debit card and online account (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer Cinda Securities from his crypto wallet). The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr T 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
The first payment Mr T made for £1,000 would not have appeared particularly out of 
character when compared with the pattern of spending usually associated with his 
account. However, it isnt in dispute that the next payment of £8,000 Mr T made on 
19 January 2021 was unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention 
systems and was automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a 
question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that 
intervention.
Santander called Mr T on 19 January 2021 and warned him that there is a high risk of 
fraud and scams connected with cryptocurrency investments. They asked if anybody had 
talked him into making the investment, to which he said that they hadnt and that he had 
decided to this himself. Mr T confirmed that everything was genuine and confirmed that 
nobody had asked him to make the payments, and said he was happy to proceed with 
the payment.
Having considered the questions Santander asked during their intervention  as well as 
the responses given by Mr T  Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank 
could have done to have prevented the scam from unfolding. Mr T said that he had not 
been instructed to make the payment and had not been cold called, which was incorrect 
as he had been approached out of the blue by Cinda Securities, who had talked him into 
investing. Santander also asked him a second time Are you sure that nobody has talked 
you into doing this, to which he confirmed that they hadnt.
It isnt clear why Mr T wasnt upfront with Santander in explaining what had happened. 
But it was based upon the answers he gave that the bank was satisfied the payment 
wasnt likely being made as part of a scam. I think Santander asked appropriate 
questions of Mr T, which were ultimately led by the answers he gave. If he had answered 
the questions accurately and said he was in contact with a third-party broker, then I 
accept it would have been incumbent on Santander to maintain suspicion about the 
payment and probe further into the circumstances. But seeing as Mr T was not 
forthcoming with these details, I dont think there was any failing on the banks part to 
probe any further into how he came to be making the investment in the first place, as he 
had confirmed on more than one occasion that he had just decided to do this himself. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Santander liable for Mr Ts loss, because it seems more likely than not that he would 
have always made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any intervention made 
by the bank. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr T reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr T used his 
debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim for his card payment in these circumstances because the 
company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Santander were under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback for Mr T either.
Santander were also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr T under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to 
payments which the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been 
the case here given the payment was made to Mr Ts crypto wallet with Coinbase before 
being moved on to the scammer). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr T, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman