DRN-3216185
The complaint
T complains about the decision of AXA Insurance UK Plc to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the main events relating to this complaint. 
T is represented in this complaint, and the events have also included the involvement of 
other third parties. But for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to T and AXA.
T operates as a restaurant and held a retail insurance policy underwritten by AXA. In 
March 2020, T was forced to close its premises as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
contacted AXA to claim for its losses. 
AXA declined the claim. AXA said it was not persuaded that T had demonstrated that there 
had been an occurrence of COVID-19 on its premises. AXA also did not think there was any 
cover, from the other parts of the policy, in the circumstances of the claim. 
Unhappy with this outcome, T ultimately brought its complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator was also not persuaded that the evidence T had provided had demonstrated 
that it was more likely than not that there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 at the 
premises prior to them being closed. 
Our Investigator also did not think COVID-19 had caused damage as required by the 
policy, or that the restrictions imposed on T by the Government regulations introduced to 
control the spread of COVID-19 were due to defects in Ts sanitary arrangements. 
As T remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on T, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
T is represented in this complaint. Ts representative has submitted detailed arguments as to 
why it feels Ts claim should be met and the complaint upheld. The arguments submitted and 
pursued by Ts representative, are largely the same arguments that it has submitted on other 
complaints from other policyholders.
The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that 
similar conclusions will be reached. Ts representative has had this services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, it should 
be aware that the same approach will be applied to this case. 
However, for the benefit of T, I will set out in this decision why its representatives arguments 
have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint. 
The three issues are essentially whether there is a claim relating to damage, to sanitary 
arrangements, and to disease at the premises. 
Damage
The type of cover T is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy T took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ts policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured resulting from Damage to property. Damage is defined within the policy as: Physical 
loss destruction or damage.
A couple of the extensions do not require the Damage to occur to property at the insured 
premises, but still require it to occur to property. With all the relevant areas of cover, the 
Damage also needs to have been caused by one of the perils insured by the material 
damage section of the policy. And one of these perils is Accidental damage. 
Ts representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, were 
damage. It has argued that because the policy covers accidental damage, this means that, 
unless specifically excluded, any cause of Damage is covered and that this would include 
COVID-19 and its impact. And it has said that the Damage does not need to be physical. 
However, I am not persuaded by these arguments. I consider that loss, destruction, or 
damage as used in this policy is most likely to refer to something physical. This is a word 
that is included in the definition of Damage in the policy. And I do not consider this definition 
to be unclear. The business interruption cover also requires the relevant Damage to have 
occurred to property. And I consider a reasonable person, at the time Ts policy was taken 
out, would interpret this as being material property. Damage to material property must 
inherently be physical in nature. 
Ts representative has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to 
COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the 
cases referred to, as well as the rest of the current legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I 
consider that damage, as it is required under the policy, would require either a physical 
change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage. 
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Ts property, its suppliers property, or property within the vicinity of 
Ts premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist cleaning of such property was 
required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I think AXA acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining Ts claim under the parts of the policy that required such 
damage. 
I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Ts premises (or the premises of their suppliers) would constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be more than a 
temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain  the basic principle being that the relevant 
sections listed above would provide indemnity to replace that lost property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage as defined by the policy 
which has led to an interruption of Ts business. So, I dont think either the core business 
interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on there having been damage, provide cover in 
the circumstances of Ts claim. And I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting 
Ts claim under these areas of cover.
Sanitary arrangements
One of the extensions to the business interruption section of Ts policy provides cover where 
there has been a closure of the insured premises as a result of:
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the PREMISES
Ts representative has said that the premises were closed for sanitary reasons because it 
was not safe for people to congregate in close proximity to one another. As such, it 
considers this subclause provides cover. 
It seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitation at Ts premises. In 
determining this, amongst other things, Ive considered relevant case law, in particular the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor 
[2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a 
comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in this case in terms 
of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ts policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Ts complaint.
The judge said, at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Ts policy was entered in July 2019, a number of months before COVID-19 was discovered. 
And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history as a means of preventing 
the spread of disease, until recently, it was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a 
reasonable person reading the particular wording of Ts policy in July 2019 would have 
considered this subclause to refer to an inability to enforce social distancing at Ts premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Ts representative considers the defect at Ts premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. T is a restaurant and no evidence has been provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded 
that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect 
specific to Ts premises which led to its closure. I havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest it was the circumstances at Ts premises in particular that led to the Welsh 
Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. 
For these reasons, I consider AXAs decision to not to meet Ts claim under this section was 
fair and reasonable. 
Disease at the premises
Another of the extensions to the business interruption section of Ts policy provides cover 
where the interruption has been caused by a contagious or infectious disease occurring at 
the insured premises. 
There are some exclusions on which diseases are covered, but it is not disputed that the 
policy would provide cover in relation to COVID-19. However, in order for a claim to be 
covered by this extension, it would firstly need to be shown that this disease (or another 
which then led to the interruption) had occurred at the insured premises. 
It is for T to demonstrate that it has a valid claim. So, in essence, it is for T to show that it is 
more likely than not that COVID-19 occurred at its premises prior to its closure. 
T has said that COVID-19 was prevalent in the area its premises are located in. And I 
appreciate it is possible that someone with the disease was at the premises. But it is also 
quite possible that no-one with the disease was at the premises. And T has not been able to 
identify any particular individual that most likely had the disease. Without further evidence, I 
am unable to safely conclude that it is more likely than not that COVID-19 did occur at the 
premises. 
Ultimately, I am not satisfied that T has demonstrated that it is more likely than not that there 
was an occurrence of COVID-19, or any other disease, at its premises that then led to its 
closure. As such, I dont think AXA acted inappropriately in not meeting Ts claim under this 
area of cover.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AXA should have met Ts claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for T and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman