DRN-3364679
The complaint
In summary, Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) trading as Halifax, closed his 
credit card account when he didnt want it to be closed.
What happened
In May 2021, BOS wrote to Mr J to tell him it was reducing the credit limit on his account to 
£75. He was also told that his account would be closed.
Mr J complained to BOS. It didnt uphold his complaint and explained that it had taken the 
decision to close his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand that Mr J was disappointed and upset to be told BOS was closing his credit 
card account. The key issue I need to decide, is whether BOS did anything wrong when it 
decided to do this. 
The terms of the credit agreement Mr J entered into, address in what circumstances the 
account can be closed. The ending of the agreement is dealt with at clauses A9 and B9. In 
summary they say that the agreement has no fixed term and can be ended by Mr J as a 
customer and by BOS. It goes on to explain BOS can end the agreement by giving written 
notice, which would normally not be less than 2 months. 
They also say that the agreement will continue until everything owed under the agreement 
has been paid. Im satisfied that the letter sent to Mr J on 6 May 2021, provided the requisite 
notice that the account was going to be closed.
So, I think the credit agreement allowed BOS to unilaterally terminate the credit agreement 
and to require the outstanding balance to be repaid. 
I also understand that Mr J is upset at what has happened. And I have thought carefully 
about what hes said. BOS isnt obliged to give any reasons as to why it wants to close his 
account. And I think it has acted fairly in doing so, as it has acted in line with the credit 
agreement terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman