DRN-3702627
The complaint
Mr S complains about the permitted maximum mileage for a car that was supplied to him 
under a hire purchase agreement for which Duckworth Land Rover was the credit 
intermediary. He also complains that it inflated the cost of the car and didnt make him aware 
of the possible negative equity that he could face.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with a credit 
provider that was dated in May 2018. Duckworth Land Rover was the credit 
intermediary for that agreement. Mr S complained to Duckworth Land Rover in 
January 2021 about the negative equity on the car. It said that negative equity of 
£5,253.79 from a previous car was included on the invoice and that any mileage in 
excess of the 7,000 annual mileage allowance would contribute to the negative 
equity. Mr S said that hed requested an annual mileage allowance of 15,000 miles. 
Mr S then complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He concluded 
that it was likely that a mistake was made during the sales process and the mileage 
allowance of 32,672 that was entered on the agreement didnt reflect the discussion 
held. He thought that the maximum permitted mileage should have been around 
48,000 miles. He recommended that Duckworth Land Rover should pay any excess 
mileage charge that Mr S received for mileage between 32,672 and 48,000 miles.
Mr S has accepted that recommendation but said that he believes that the cost of the 
car was inflated to cover negative equity, he was given bad financial advice and left 
with a car that he cant sell due to negative equity. Our investigator didnt think that 
Duckworth Land Rover had inflated the price of the car or had acted unfairly about 
the price of the car  it had applied a discount of £3,899.78 and Mr S also received a 
finance deposit allowance of £2,500.
Duckworth Land Rover says that Mr S was clearly wrong about his assertion that it 
inflated the price when hed received discounts of more than £6,000, he has a track 
record of creating negative equity in his cars so his testimony shouldnt be relied on 
and he signed for the mileage allowance.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement in May 2018. The 
invoice for the car shows that the price of the car, after a discount of £3,899.78 from 
Duckworth Land Rover, was £44,189.22, and there was a part payment of £500, 
negative equity on a previous car of £5,253.79 and a hire purchase settlement of 
£24,753.79. The total to be financed was shown as £48,443.01.
The hire purchase agreement shows the cash price of the car as £48,443.01 and a 
deposit of £2,500 so the amount of credit was £45,943.01. Mr S agreed to make 48 
monthly payments of £685.99 and a final repayment of £20,963. Duckworth Land 
Rover says that it didnt inflate the selling price of the car and that it gave Mr S a 
discount of £3,899.78 and that he also received a finance deposit allowance of 
£2,500.
The hire purchase agreement also shows a guaranteed future value of the car of 
£20,953, which is the same as the final repayment due from him. At the end of the 
agreement Mr S would have the option to return the car (and the final repayment 
wouldnt have been payable) or to keep the car and pay the final repayment.
The hire purchase agreement also shows that the permitted maximum mileage was 
32,672 miles and that excess milage charges were applicable for mileage in excess 
of that. Mr S says that he asked for an annual mileage allowance of 15,000 miles 
which was consistent with the expected use of the car and the mileage that had been 
used for his insurance. But the annual mileage used on his insurance when he 
collected the car was 12,000 miles and Mr S said in June 2022 that the cars mileage 
was 77,000  which equates to annual mileage of more than 19,000 miles.
The credit provider sent a copy of the hire purchase agreement to Mr S in May 2018 
and its clear that he received it because he provided it, and a copy of the credit 
providers cover letter, to this service. I consider that it was Mr Ss responsibility to 
check that the terms of the agreement were what he expected and were consistent 
with what had been agreed with Duckworth Land Rover before he agreed to them. 
He agreed the price of the car, including the discount and the deposit allowance, with 
Duckworth Land Rover and if it wasnt acceptable to him I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect him not to have agreed for the car to be supplied to him.
The price thats agreed for a car is a commercial decision between the dealer and the 
customer and this service wouldnt normally interfere with a legitimate commercial 
decision. I dont consider that it would be appropriate in these circumstances for me 
to interfere with the price for the car that was agreed by Duckworth Land Rover and 
Mr S.
If Mr S had read the agreement either before the car was supplied to him or when the 
credit provider sent a copy to him he would have seen the permitted mileage 
allowance and, if it wasnt acceptable to him, I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect that he would have contacted either Duckworth Land Rover or the credit 
provider about it at that time  but Ive seen no evidence to show that he complained 
about that permitted mileage allowance until June 2021.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the permitted mileage 
allowance set out in the agreement is incorrect or that it would be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for a different mileage allowance to now be applied. Nor am I 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Duckworth Land Rover inflated 
the price of the car or that it failed in any requirement to make Mr S aware of the 
possible negative equity that he could face.
I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that hes experienced but Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that Duckworth Land Rover has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require it to take any action in response to Mr Ss complaint.Subject to any further representations by Mr S or Duckworth Land Rover, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Mr S says that he was 
disappointed by my provisional decision but has now decided to voluntarily terminate the hire 
purchase agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman