DRN-2103202
The complaint
Miss F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) mis-sold her a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy that Miss F took out in 2003 in connection with a credit
card.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Miss F disagreed with 
the adjudicator's conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Tesco Bank made it clear that Miss F didnt have to buy the PPI,
but she chose to take it out. I say this because Miss F completed the box on the 
credit card application form to show that she wanted the cover. Miss F couldve 
chosen not to tick the box if she hadnt wanted the cover. So I think she wouldve 
realised she had a choice about buying the PPI.
Tesco Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check if it was
right for her. Miss F had to decide that for herself. 
But even if Tesco Bank had recommended the policy to Miss F, it doesn't look like it 
was unsuitable for her based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Miss F says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, although she cant say 
for sure how much that sick pay wouldve been. But the policy would've paid out in 
addition to Miss F's employer sick pay and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I 
think Miss F would've had some use for the policy, despite her existing 
arrangements.
Its possible the information Tesco Bank gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Miss F's circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Tesco Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Tesco Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because:
Tesco Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because Tesco Bank didnt
tell Miss F, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Miss F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman