DRN-1653595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E were due to go on holiday in June 2019. In May 2019 Mrs Es father was taken 
into hospital and was subsequently released to receive palliative care. Mr and Mrs E 
cancelled their holiday. Sadly he died in June 2019, the day after Mr and Mrs E had been 
due to go on holiday. They claimed on their travel insurance policy for the cancellation of 
their holiday. 
URV declined the claim saying that Mr and Mrs E werent covered for cancellation due to the 
existing health conditions of a close relative. They said a pre-existing condition was any 
serious or recurring medical condition which had been previously diagnosed, investigated or 
treated in any way, at any time prior to travel. 
Mr and Mrs E complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and didnt uphold the complaint. Having taken into account the medical evidence and the 
death certificate he didnt think it was unreasonable for URV to reject the claim. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree. They said that it was an unfair outcome and a lot of money to 
lose. So I need to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
In the cancellation section of the policy terms and conditions it says that URV wont cover 
claims for cancellation arising from: 
A medical condition that a close relative or a close business associate has at the time 
of purchase of this policy or has had prior to the purchase of this policy or any 
recognised complication caused by the existing medical condition.
An existing condition is defined as: 
any serious or recurring medical condition which has previously been diagnosed or 
been investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel, even if this 
condition is currently considered to be stable or under control. 
The key issue for me to decide in this case is whether it was unreasonable for URV to 
decline the claim based on the information about Mrs Es fathers medical history. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mrs Es father had a heart attack in 2012. He had an implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator (ICD) and the GP letter says that he attended for check-ups. The GP form 
also says that had been stable since then until his admission into hospital in 2019. The 
GP letter also listed a number of medications that Mrs Es father took and explained that 
hed been diagnosed with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in 2006
The death certificate says that the cause of death was congestive cardiac failure, 
ischaemic heart disease, atrial fibrillation, type 2 diabetes and COPD 
I dont think it is unreasonable for URV to conclude that Mrs Es fathers death was 
connected to his underlying medical conditions. He had heart problems for some time 
and COPD. The certificate of death refers to heart problems and COPD as causes of 
death. And, even though Mrs Es father had been stable, this policy doesnt provide 
cover even if the condition was considered to be stable or under control.      
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed with my decision. Mrs E told us that she 
wanted to resolve the claim and hoped it might offer her some closure following the death of 
her father. I also understand that losing out on a significant amount of money for their 
holiday would have caused additional distress at an already difficult time. But unfortunately, 
their travel insurance policy doesnt cover them for this situation.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman