DRN-4087126
The complaint
Mr V complains that he was charged excessive foreign exchange (FX) charges when he 
converted currency on his account with Interactive Investor Services Ltd (IISL). 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr V transferred a pension into a SIPP with IISL. At that time he was provided 
with a Rates and Charges document which explained in respect of the foreign exchange 
(FX) rate for currency conversion The FX rate for currency conversion is based on the 
bid/offer exchange rate, to which we apply a spread of up to +/- 1.5% at the time of 
execution. 
In September 2022, Mr V placed four instructions to convert currency from GBP to USD, one 
on 4 September, one on 21 September and two on 23 September. On each occasion, he 
was presented with the opportunity to choose whether he wished to specify the amount he 
wished to exchange or the amount he wished to receive. The exchange rate was shown 
(which included IISLs margin) and Mr V had the option of whether to proceed. A link was 
provided to a rate card which showed further detail.
On 5 October 2022, Mr V called IISL to complain about the charges included in the FX 
transactions. IISL did not uphold the complaint because they stated that their charges had 
been made clear, and Mr V had opted to proceed with the transaction after having been 
provided with the preview which showed the conversion rate and how much he would 
receive.
Mr V was not happy with this, and referred his complaint to this service. The investigator 
reviewed the information provided and did not uphold the complaint. She found that on each 
occasion, Mr V had had the opportunity to review the information available in relation to the 
margin IISL would add to the conversion rate, and was aware of the amount he would 
receive following the transaction.
Mr V disagreed, and the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I have considered whether the charges were applied correctly. For each transaction, 
IISL charge a margin, which is their fee for the transaction carried out on their platform. This 
margin is expressed as a tiered percentage, based on the size of the transaction, and 
explained in the Fees and Charges document provided to Mr V. I note that the margin rates 
have remained consistent during the time Mr V has been a customer of IISL. IISL have 
stated that all the trades were executed correctly. Having reviewed this, I cannot find 
evidence to indicate otherwise.
Mr V is unhappy that he was not made aware at the time of the transaction of the level of 
margin that would be applied. I do not agree that the information was not available for Mr V 
at that time. IISL have provided an outline of the online journey, which shows that when 
commencing with an FX order, a customer can choose whether they wish to specify either 
the amount to exchange or receive. Once input, the customer can preview the order which 
states the conversion rate, and the amount that will be received. A link was shown which 
took them to the rate card for further details.
Mr V has stated that although the link was available to him to check the rates being charged, 
he did not have time to do this. I have considered whether IISL went far enough in ensuring 
the required information was available by providing a link to the conversion rates available. I 
note that the screen already showing to an investor at the time of the trade did show the 
amount of currency that would be received, which would have provided Mr V with an 
indication of the overall conversion rate being applied, with additional information being 
available via the link. It does not seem excessive to expect an investor to click the link to 
access the conversion rates should they require clarity on how the amount being received 
had been calculated. Mr V states that he did not have time to do so due to the time 
pressures linked to the purchase of the investment he wished to carry out, however I do not 
accept that this can be considered a failing on the part of IISL. 
Mr V says IISL made 3% on his transactions, which he says is too high. But fees are a 
matter of commercial judgement for businesses, so Im satisfied that IISL were entitled to 
apply the fees it did. I see no persuasive reason to uphold Mr Vs complaint on this basis. 
Having reviewed the information available, I cannot find evidence to indicate that IISL 
charged an incorrect rate, or misled Mr V in relation to what hed pay. I believe that the 
information was readily available for Mr V in good time for Mr V to be in a position to choose 
whether to proceed with the transactions on each occasion. I therefore do not uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman