DRN-4295842
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with some of the correspondence that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading 
as Tesco Bank) has sent to him, and the way it handled his enquiries about this.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr L has a Tesco Bank credit card and has opted out of receiving marketing 
correspondence from the bank. Hes unhappy because he believes that emails dated 
15 November 2022 and 8 February 2023 amount to marketing, so shouldnt have been 
sent to him. He complained about those emails separately and is unhappy that the bank 
merged the complaints. Hes also unhappy with the way the bank handled his enquiries 
when he called to discuss the merger, which included terminating the phone call.
Tesco Bank says both emails relate to account servicing and Mr L cannot opt out of 
receiving these. The complaints were merged because they concern the same 
underlying issue and this was explained during the disputed phone call. That call was 
terminated, in line with their policy, which allows this step to be taken when a call 
becomes unproductive or abusive. 
Although they had been referred to this service at different times, our investigator 
considered the matters described above were so closely linked that they should be dealt 
with together. And she didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. Mr L disagreed, 
so the matter has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that I think it is fair and pragmatic to deal with Mr Ls three complaint points 
under this one complaint, given the underlying issues are so closely linked.
Mr L has complained to this service previously about contact hes received from Tesco Bank 
and weve tried to help him understand the difference between marketing, and other types 
of, correspondence. I would emphasize again that the purpose of a marketing mailing is to 
encourage the recipient to buy something  as such, sometimes a particular offer or 
promotion will be described in such mailings. 
I dont agree with Mr L that the two emails hes complained about amount to marketing. The 
November mailing explained that a well-known contactless payment method had become 
available to use in connection with Mr Ls credit card. And the February mailing explained 
how another payment facility would be changing. The latter was also reflected in the revised 
credit card terms and conditions that came into force on 13 April 2023 and were preceded by 
a notice of variation in February 2023. 
So I think both emails related to how Mr L could use his credit card  rather than promoting 
an additional product  and, as such, it wasnt wrong of the bank to say these 
communications related to the servicing of his account.
The rules and legislation which relate to marketing and advertising include that an individual 
must be allowed to opt out of such communications. And theres no dispute here that Mr L 
has opted out of marketing mailings. But the same is not true of account servicing type 
communications. The bank is obliged to keep its customers informed about their accounts  
specific obligations are set out in more detail in, for example, the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. And I think its probably for this reason that the bank has said it cannot 
allow Mr L (or other customers) to opt out of account servicing communications.
I think this is what the bank was trying to explain to Mr L during the phone call, which started 
off as being about the merged complaint but evolved into a discussion about the original 
issue  whether the emails amounted to marketing or not. I have obtained and listened to the 
phone call. I dont agree with Mr Ls suggestion that the call-handler acted unreasonably. 
She explained why the complaints had been merged and why she couldnt block future 
emails relating to account servicing. Mr L disagreed. I think there was a simple difference of 
opinion during the call, which no amount of discussion was likely to resolve. So I dont think 
the bank acted unreasonably here. The call-handler gave Mr L fair warning of her intention  
she explained, politely in my opinion, that they were going around in circles and so the call 
had become unproductive  and she subsequently ended the call.
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling and its important that banks comply with customers 
wishes not to receive marketing communications. But, for the reason set out above, I dont 
think Tesco Bank has done anything wrong in this particular case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman