DRN-3099218
The complaint
Ms H complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined a claim and 
cancelled her insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H took out a D&G online insurance policy to cover her oven in November 2020. In 
December 2020, she accidentally damaged her oven. She made a claim to D&G.
D&G declined the claim. It contacted the oven manufacturers who said Ms Hs oven was 
made sometime between 1999 and 2004. D&G says it doesnt offer cover for appliances this 
old. It said Ms H had provided misleading information about the ovens age when she took 
out the policy. Under the policy terms, D&G can cancel the policy if Ms H didnt comply with 
the condition that All information you give must be true, factual and not misleading. It 
cancelled the policy and refunded Ms Hs premiums.
Ms H was unhappy with this. She said the oven was a gift from a relative in 2017. When she 
completed D&Gs online application she was asked for the date of purchase. She entered 
the date she was given it. She reviewed the policy terms and cant see any mention of an 
exclusion for older appliances. She wants D&G to settle her claim and pay for the repairs to 
the oven. She brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
question asked on D&Gs online application was clear. She thought Ms H had tried to 
answer the question honestly but hadnt done so. She was satisfied that D&G wouldnt have 
covered Ms Hs oven if it had known how old it was. As a result, our investigator thought 
D&G had acted fairly when it declined Ms Hs claim and cancelled her policy. 
Ms H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The damage to the oven, and the cause of this damage, isnt disputed. The only issue I need 
to consider is whether D&Gs reason for declining Ms Hs claim and cancelling her policy 
was fair.
Ms H says D&G misrepresented the policy because theres nothing in the policy documents 
that says old appliances arent covered. Although it hasnt explicitly said this, D&G cancelled 
Ms Hs policy because she made a misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was 1) deliberate or reckless, or 2) careless.
First, Ive looked at D&Gs screenshots of the customer journey. This suggests that, in 
answer to the question When did you buy the appliance?, a warning appears if the 
customer tries to enter a date that means the appliance is more than eight years old. The 
warning says: The age of your appliance should be less than 8 years old. 
I tested this by going through the online application but couldnt recreate this warning. 
However, the drop-down menu didnt allow me to enter a year before 2013. This might be 
because the answer options have changed since November 2020. But Im satisfied that in 
both versions of the question there would have been some form of warning if Ms H had tried 
to enter a date before 2012.
Ms H says she answered 2017 to the date of purchase question. This was the year she 
was given the oven by her relative. When I entered 2017 no warning appeared, so I think 
its likely there wouldnt have been any warning when Ms H applied for cover. 
However, Ive thought about her answer. She says it wasnt unreasonable for her to enter 
the date she was given the oven. Im afraid I disagree. I think Ms H might reasonably have 
questioned whether this was an appropriate response.
There are question marks next to all questions on the online application. Clicking on these 
reveals additional information. Clicking the question mark next to the date of purchase 
question reveals the following: We cant offer protection for appliances that are aged 8 
years and over. This is clear. D&Gs customer journey document shows this information 
was part of the online application in November 2020. I think a reasonable customer in Ms 
Hs circumstances would have checked this additional information.
Ms H points out that this question wouldnt be able to filter out recently purchased second-
hand ovens. I take her point but that isnt what happened here. Ms H was gifted an oven that 
was more than sixteen years old. Her answer indicated it was three years old. Unfortunately, 
Ms H provided incorrect information when she applied for the policy. That means there was 
a misrepresentation.
Next, I need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. In other 
words, did it make a difference?
D&G told us that it wouldnt have offered Ms H cover if shed answered the date of 
purchase question correctly. As Ive said, this is also clearly stated on the online application. 
So Im satisfied that there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
D&G accepts Ms H didnt mean to mislead it and I agree. This means the misrepresentation 
was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless.
Ive looked at the actions D&G can take under CIDRA. Where a qualifying misrepresentation 
is careless, and the insurer wouldnt have insured the customer but for the 
misrepresentation, it can treat the policy as void. As this means that, in effect, Ms Hs policy 
never existed, D&G doesnt have to deal with her claim and can cancel her policy. I understand Ms H was going through an incredibly difficult time when she took out the policy 
and Ive thought very carefully about this. But Im afraid I disagree with her when she says 
D&G misrepresented the policy and/or didnt take reasonable care to provide her with 
enough information to complete the application correctly. I think the online application was 
clear.
Unfortunately, Ms H didnt provide the right information. If shed done so, D&G wouldnt have 
covered her. In the circumstances, Im satisfied D&G can cancel the policy. I think it acted 
reasonably when it declined Ms Hs claim and refunded her premiums.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman