DRN-1383678
Complaint
Ms C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
unaffordable loans to her.                          
Background
This complaint is about four high-cost short term credit instalment loans which Sunny 
provided to Ms C in February 2018 and March 2018. Our adjudicator upheld Ms Cs 
complaint and thought she shouldnt have been provided with loan 4. Sunny didnt agree 
with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms C, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Ms C was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 4. I say this because by this stage Ms C exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans before having repaid previous ones. Indeed loan 4 was provided while Ms C had 
barely made any repayments to loans 1, 2 and 3. And a significant portion of her income was 
now committed to repaying Sunny. I dont think that the monthly repayments being less than 
a certain percentage of Ms Cs income or her having repaid this loan means that it was 
sustainable for her in the first place.
Ms C had to pay interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been provided with. 
So I think that she lost out because of what Sunny did wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Ms C paid on loan 4;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file as a result of loan 4.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Cs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Ms C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman