DRN-3703952
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly defaulted its Bounce Back Loan.
One of Ps directors, Mr P, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
P banked with NatWest and, in May 2020, successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £30,000.
Some months later, NatWest decided to end its relationship with P and said it was closing its 
accounts. When Mr P complained, the bank said that it couldnt discuss its rationale but that 
the decision had been made in line with its terms and conditions.
NatWest subsequently wrote to P on 5 January 2021 to advise that an Event of Default had 
occurred under the terms of the Bounce Back Loan  meaning that P now had to repay the 
£30,000 loan in full, immediately. The bank used the balance held in Ps bank account, of 
around £190, to reduce the amount it owed on the loan.
Mr P raised a further complaint with the bank in light of its decision to call in the Bounce 
Back Loan. But NatWest maintained its decision, which it said complied with all applicable 
legislation and regulations. And it said the steps it had taken to notify P of the default and 
recover the debt were in line with its processes.
Mr P remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said that NatWest hadnt specified 
the grounds on which it believed an Event of Default had occurred and he didnt think its 
actions were justified. He wants NatWest to withdraw the default and allow P to repay the 
loan through the monthly instalments as per the terms of the agreement. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I intended to uphold Ps complaint. 
I said:
Following a review of its relationship with P, NatWest decided to withdraw its banking 
services from the company. That was a decision it was entitled to make and Ive not 
seen anything that suggests it was unreasonable. 
NatWests review was already underway when P applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan. Given this, it ought not to have approved Ps application, not least as 
there was a chance that it would shortly be terminating its relationship with the 
company altogether. But it did. So when the bank belatedly completed its review 
some months later and decided to end its relationship with P, it also had to terminate 
the loan it had only recently provided.
While there are certain circumstances in which a Bounce Back Loan can be recalled 
on demand, Im not wholly persuaded that the terms of Ps agreement with NatWest 
entitled it to do so here. As Mr P contends, I dont think any of the listed Events of 
Default could be said to have arisen here. In any event, the situation has only come 
about because of an error on NatWests part in approving the application initially 
when it ought to have been declined. So even if it could be said that an Event of 
Default had occurred, this wouldnt have happened if the bank hadnt erroneously 
provided P with the loan in the first place. 
I can see from the companys account statements that P has had the use of the full 
loan amount. I understand Mr Ps concern is only about how to repay this, which  
given what Ive said above  I have some sympathy with. Having given the loan and 
agreed to accept its repayment over a term of six years, I dont think it is fair for 
NatWest to insist on its immediate repayment in these circumstances. 
Instead, I think it would be fair for NatWest to allow P to repay the loan by way of 
monthly instalments as originally agreed. This could (and should) have been 
facilitated without defaulting the agreement, so any adverse information that was 
registered with credit reference agencies about the default or any subsequent 
outstanding amounts should also be removed. 
I also think it would be fair for NatWest to compensate P for the inconvenience it has 
been caused by the shortcomings in how the bank has handled things. Mr P has had 
to spend time attending to this matter, including the understandable queries he raised 
with NatWest as to the basis of its decision and attempts to reinstate the original 
repayment terms as well as making arrangements in light of the loans termination. 
That, inevitably, will have taken Mr P away from the companys operations. So Im 
also intending to require NatWest to pay P compensation of £350 for this 
inconvenience.
Lastly, I note that NatWest utilised a relatively small credit balance on Ps account (of 
just over £190) to reduce the amount owed under the Bounce Back Loan. The terms 
and conditions of Ps accounts allowed it to do this, although the fairness of that 
action is debatable given all of Ive said above. But Im not currently intending to 
require NatWest to refund this amount, given that it could simply be used to offset 
other amounts that P will be required to repay moving forward.  
Both P and NatWest replied to confirm they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With both parties having accepted my provisional decision and no new information for me to 
take into account, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision simply 
confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to:
Pay P compensation of £350;Instruct the removal of any adverse information registered with credit reference 
agencies about P in connection with the Bounce Back Loan; and 
Allow P to repay the Bounce Back Loan by way of monthly instalments in line with 
the terms of the loan agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman