DRN-4131556
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost to a scam.
What happened
In 2020, Mr L was looking up investments online and came across a company Ill refer to as 
M. He says he thought they were legitimate as they had been established since 2016 and 
had good reviews. He also thought the way the investment worked seemed very safe.
Around September 2020 Mr L paid two cheques, for £75,000 and £50,000, to a firm Ill refer 
to as P  which were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the UKs financial 
services regulator. Mr L says the payments were transferred straight on to M.
After making these payments, Mr L received interest payments from M of around £800 per 
month. But in August 2021, notice went up that P were going into liquidation. Following this, 
Mr L only received one more payment from M  for around £260  in early September 2021.
Mr L contacted NatWest. He talked through his arrangement with M. When asked if M were 
regulated, he confirmed they werent. NatWest initially advised him to try to resolve things 
with M or P/their liquidators directly. But he says all contact from the companies ceased.
Mr L complained to NatWest that it had allowed fraudulent payments to go through. But it 
didnt accept liability for his loss. So he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator wasnt convinced Mr L had been scammed, noting the payments had gone 
directly to an FCA-regulated and that he had received regular payments from the company 
until they entered liquidation. So he didnt think NatWest was at fault for processing the 
payments. Mr L appealed the investigators findings  so the case was passed to me. 
Mr L then provided evidence that the police are treating the incident as fraud. Ive discussed 
with both Mr L and his professional representative that, even if M were fraudulent, NatWest 
would only be liable if it ought to have realised at the time of the payments that he was being 
scammed.
Mr Ls representative says the payments were unusual for him. And if NatWest had spoken 
to him at the time, he would have explained he was actually paying M, with P simply 
facilitating the payments. As M were unregulated, NatWest should have been concerned.
Mr L says he spoke to his bank manager at NatWest and asked them to look into M for him. 
And they told him M looked okay. He says the manager gave him investment advice, as 
they had done previously. But whereas they had previously given him documented 
investment advice, he didnt receive any paperwork or written record of their advice about M.
In April 2023, I issued my provisional decision explaining that, although I thought Mr L had 
probably been scammed, I wasnt persuaded it was fair to hold NatWest liable for his loss for 
the following reasons: 
The bank is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue 
delay. So the starting position is that Mr L is liable for payments he authorises.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment.
That said, when simply executing authorised payments, NatWest doesnt have to 
protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. So Ive 
first considered whether Mr L was scammed.
The information about M isnt conclusive. But, on balance, I accept its likely they 
were fraudulent. This is because:
In October 2021, the FCA issued a warning about M operating in the UK 
without their authority. Although this postdates Mr Ls payments, its a sign 
that M were operating with dishonest intentions. As most legitimate 
companies abide by regulations.
Although the payments went via a regulated firm, it seems P merely facilitated 
them and werent involved with the investment itself; Mr Ls contract was with 
M.
Mr L did receive some money back. But this was a very small amount 
compared to what he paid in.
The most recent evidence from the police suggests they now accept M were 
a scam.
Overall, Im persuaded M were acting fraudulently  and tricked Mr L into making 
these payments under false pretences, and never intended to return his capital.
But, as Ive discussed with Mr L, that doesnt automatically mean NatWest is liable 
for his loss. That depends on whether it ought to have identified a fraud risk at the 
time. And if so, whether an appropriate reaction would have prevented his loss.
I accept the size of the payments was unusual for Mr L  which can be an indication 
of fraud. I also accept that, if questioned about the payments, Mr L would likely have 
spoken about M  as thats who he understood he was dealing with. So, if questioned 
about the payments, there may have been fraud concerns about the fact M werent 
regulated.
That said, Im conscious Ms website  which Mr L checked prior to investing  
clearly stated they werent regulated. He says he didnt know this at the time, but I 
think the information on the website put him on constructive notice. And he must 
have found this out at some point  as when he spoke to NatWest around October 
2021, he knew M werent regulated.
Also, M werent falsely claiming to be regulated  which would be more suspicious. 
Their website clearly stated they werent regulated by the FCA. Additionally, a 
company might not have the right authorisation while still providing a genuine 
service.
Furthermore, the FCA warning wasnt live at the time of the payments; it was 
published around a year later. That made it less clear M ought to be regulated  not 
everything to do with investment is covered by the FCA.As Mr L has explained, there were also good reviews for M and it appeared to have 
been operating successfully for some time. That helped persuade him they were 
legitimate.
Im also conscious that the payments went directly to P; an FCA-regulated firm. Their 
involvement would have reasonably reassured NatWest that the investment was 
likely legitimate. You wouldnt generally expect an FCA-regulated firm to have 
involvement with an unregulated investment  at least without having done their own 
due-diligence. And so, in the circumstances, Im not persuaded NatWest ought to 
have uncovered the scam when processing the payments.
However, I have considered what Mr L has told us about his contact with NatWest 
prior to these payments  in case it ought to have uncovered the scam at that point. 
On balance, Im not persuaded it should have.
Mr L says the bank manager gave him advice and reassured him about M. They 
dispute this. They say they didnt agree to look into M. Their role is non-advisory, and 
theyve never provided Mr L with investment advice  documented or otherwise. 
They told him to make sure he did his due diligence as the expected return was high 
and they hadnt heard of M.
I wouldnt have expected NatWest to give Mr L investment advice. The duty lay with 
him  rather than his bank  to do his own due diligence before deciding whether to 
use M. He could have opted to seek his own, independent investment advice prior if 
he wished. Whereas the bank managers role was non-advisory.
However, if the bank manager did see Ms website prior  as Mr L asserts  then 
theres a case to be made for saying they ought to have warned Mr L about the 
possible fraud risk, given that M werent regulated. But on balance, I dont think I can 
safely conclude that they did  nor that they missed a reasonable opportunity to 
uncover the scam.
Ultimately, theres a difference between Mr Ls recollections and those of the bank 
manager. And Im mindful the evidence suggests some confusion by Mr L about the 
account managers role and former interactions  given that he told me the manager 
had previously given him documented advice, whereas the manager was acting on a 
non-advisory basis.
Im also conscious that, although Mr L has been consistent in mentioning some 
contact with the bank manager, some of the detail about this interaction has only 
been raised more recently  quite a long time after the event in question. And that will 
have naturally affected the strength of recollection.
When Mr L contacted NatWest around October 2021 it told him that, as M were not 
regulated, that was illegal. Yet when it asked him why he thought M were legitimate, 
he made no mention of having spoken to  nor gotten advice from  NatWest about 
M. Hes since told me he made the payments as he trusted the managers advice. If 
so, and that was key to why he thought M were legitimate, its unclear why he 
wouldnt have mentioned this to NatWest when asked.
In March 2022  a month or so after first contacting us about this complaint  Mr L 
told us that hed spoken to a NatWest advisor who never stopped him from making 
the payment. The first contact Ive seen which specifically says the manager gave 
Mr L advice dates from May 2022. Whereas hes told me the contact with the 
manager about M happened around August 2020; almost two years prior.I dont doubt Mr L has given us his honest recollection of what happened. But given 
the apparent confusion about what would constitute advice, the difference in 
recollections between the two parties and the time that has passed, Im not 
persuaded its fair for me to deem his recollections any more likely than the 
managers.
Im also conscious that, despite NatWest telling him M were operating illegally in 
October 2021, he was still unsure whether they were a scam or a bad bargain when 
contacting us a few months later. And, as mentioned prior, he had also found out 
before contacting NatWest that M werent regulated. So its unclear a warning about 
this would have prevented him from proceeding.
This also reflects the sophisticated nature of the scam. The use of P was very 
convincing in helping M appear legitimate. It also meant that, at the point of the 
payments to P, it would have been unclear to NatWest that these had anything to do 
with M. Its difficult to conclude NatWest ought to have realised Mr L was being 
scammed at the time when thats something other official bodies have only recently 
begun to conclude following lengthy investigations.
I appreciate this has been disappointing for Mr L. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded its fair to hold NatWest liable for his loss.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence. NatWest hasnt provided 
anything further. Mr L has responded to reject my provisional findings. Ive summarised his 
response below. 
Mr L says the whole enterprise, including P, were a scam. And hes provided a statement 
from a Trading Standards officer. They provided some information about Mr Ls 
circumstances and reiterated what hes told us about his contact with NatWest prior to 
making these payments. They also say: 
The bank manager acted improperly;
Mr L had no investment experience, yet the bank manager didnt tell him to contact a 
regulated financial advisor or tell him not to invest; and
The uncharacteristically large payments should have led NatWest to refuse the 
payments; alert Trading Standards; and warn Mr L to consult a regulated financial 
advisor before investing life changing sums of money.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision  and 
largely for the same reasons, which are set out above form part of my final decision. So Ill 
focus here on addressing the points raised in response to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr L thinks P were part of, or complicit in, the scam. Ive not seen much to show 
P set out with any intent to defraud him, like it appears M did. Regardless, the point remains 
that, at the time of the payments, P were regulated by the FCA. And so even if they were 
acting fraudulently, that doesnt affect my decision  as Id still consider it reasonable for 
NatWest to be reassured by Ps status as an FCA-regulated firm. Turning to the information provided by the Trading Standards officer, Ive already considered 
the information Mr L has provided about his contact with the bank manager. So theres 
nothing new here which causes me to depart from my provisional findings. 
Ive explained above that there is a discrepancy between the bank manager and Mr L about 
their contact about M. And I pointed out several reasons why I wasnt persuaded to uphold 
the complaint by Mr Ls testimony  bearing in mind that, as the person making the 
allegation/complaint, its for him to show me, on balance, that his recollection is more likely 
to be correct than the bank managers (as opposed to be less likely, or even equally likely).
To summarise  some of the details Mr L has raised that would be more indicative of 
inappropriate action, such as that the bank manager agreed to look into M on Mr Ls behalf 
(as opposed to simply not telling him not to proceed), were raised more recently. The bank 
manager strongly denies giving advice or helping Mr L look into M. 
Mr L, and Trading Standards, say he placed a lot of weight on the bank managers advice. 
But when initially asked by NatWest why he had thought M were legitimate, he made no 
mention of having relied on their advice. I do question why he wouldnt have mentioned that 
if it had been key to his decision to make this investment.  
Mr L has also told me that the bank manager had previously given him documented 
investment advice  which appears to be incorrect, as the bank managers role was non-
advisory. That suggests some confusion around the nature of Mr Ls interactions with the 
bank manager, which I think reasonably affects my judgment of his recollection of these 
particular interactions  which were also a long time ago, naturally affecting everyones 
memory of what was discussed.
The Trading Standards officer says that, as Mr L had no investment advice, the bank 
manager (or other NatWest staff, at the point of processing the payments) should have told 
him to contact a regulated financial advisor or have told him not to invest. Its not NatWests 
role to give investment advice. And I consider it reasonable to expect the duty to lie with the 
person making the investment to satisfy themselves on whether they wanted to take further 
advice. 
Additionally, at the point the payments were made, they would have shown as going to P, a 
regulated firm, and not M. So while I agree theres a case to say perhaps NatWest ought to 
have made further checks  Im not persuaded it had grounds to refuse these altogether, or 
to take the other action Trading Standards has suggested it should have done.
Ultimately, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to have been reassured that a payment 
going directly to an FCA-regulated firm was likely to be legitimate. And so I dont think it had 
grounds to alert Trading Standards or to refuse the payment outright  bearing in mind that, 
whilst banks have a duty to help protect customers from financial harm from fraud and 
scams, that is balanced against their duty to process authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. And Mr L had authorised the payments to P by writing and signing the 
cheques.  
I do naturally sympathise with Mr Ls situation. It seems hes been the victim of a cruel, and 
very sophisticated, scam. But my role is to consider whether its fair to hold NatWest, as his 
bank, liable for his loss. Overall, Im not persuaded any errors by NatWest caused this. And 
so I dont consider it fair to direct NatWest to refund Mr L.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman