DRN-4007294
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the service she received from Fox Private Finance Limited when 
assisting her with her home insurance claims.
What happened
Fox is an insurance broker who arranged Mrs Gs home insurance for her. It also assisted 
Mrs G when she made home insurance claims for damage to her property caused by a flood 
(in August 2020) and a burst water pipe (in February 2021).
In May 2021, Mrs G raised several concerns with Fox about the service shed received from 
it. Fox upheld her complaint and offered £1,000 which it later increased to £1,500 in full and 
final settlement of all claims and causes of actions she might have against it.
In January 2022, Mrs G asked our service to consider her concerns about Fox. Our 
investigator said he wasnt able to consider the events that were considered by Fox in June 
2021. This was because shed brought the complaint to our service more than six months 
after the date of Foxs final response letter. 
The investigator did consider some other concerns Mrs G had raised, which were about the 
conduct of its case handler.  He recommended Fox pay Mrs G for distress and 
inconvenience shed experienced as a result of the claims handler (Ms C) removing Mrs Gs 
items from storage in an attempt to clean and restore them.  
Both Mrs G and Fox accepted the investigators recommendation and the case was closed 
in August 2022.
In November 2022, Mrs G brought another complaint against Fox to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think it was appropriate for our service to look into the matters raised. He 
thought the complaint should be dismissed because Mrs Gs concerns had already been 
considered by our service and he didnt think there was any new material evidence.
 
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she was claiming the sum of her 
losses that she was unable to claim from her insurers due to the costs of salvage, cleaning, 
storage etc being taken off the contents limit. She said her contention was that the case 
handler (Ms C) didnt tell her about this or get her permission or instructions to claim this 
amount. She said that some of the items Ms C took to her own property were damaged and 
the contractors wouldnt bear any responsibility because of this.
Mrs G said the ramifications of Ms Cs conduct were not known to her at the point of her 
previous complaint. She didnt believe that Ms Cs conduct or handling of her claim had been 
properly examined. She also commented that issues shed raised regarding Foxs attitude 
towards her mental health crisis involved Ms Cs conduct after the previous complaint. 
Our investigator issued a second outcome to Mrs Gs complaint where he considered the 
merits of issues shed raised, which didnt appear to have been dealt with previously. He 
explained why he didnt think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs G disagreed with the conclusions our investigator had reached and provided several 
documents which she believed supported her position.
Mrs G made a number of comments, which Ive summarised as follows:
She was well aware of the policy limits of each contents section. Her point was that 
Ms C never told her the costs of salvage, cleaning and storage etc (amounting to 
over £15,000) would be taken off the £140,000 contents limit in her policy. The policy 
document doesnt make it clear and she took it to mean that the costs would be 
deemed as general expenses. 
She appreciated the unauthorised removal of her property wasnt being reviewed as 
part of this complaint, but it was significant because the contractors and sub-
contractors would not take responsibility for the items Ms C had removed. She said 
this is new evidence since the last complaint and has had a significant detrimental 
financial impact on her and her ability to recover for her property lost in the flood 
and/or cleaning process.
Mrs G disputed that the contractors had been appointed by the insurers loss 
adjusters. She said these were appointed by Ms C. She felt she should have been 
given more time to decide on a different contractor. She said this showed that Ms C 
did not take proper instructions from her as a client. She said Ms Cs choice of 
builders had resulted in significant issues for her and caused her a great deal of 
stress. She would like compensation for this, given Ms Cs insistence on using these 
builders.
Mrs G said shed shown that the claims handler had made up a story about her 
mental health crisis. She was also concerned that Fox had brought up an extremely 
traumatic health situation in response to a complaint shed made. She felt Fox had 
done this to attack her personally, because it was unhappy shed made another 
complaint about it.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear from Mrs Gs submissions that she has strong feelings regarding her dealings with 
Fox. But I think it would be useful to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
informal dispute resolution service and an alternative to the courts. We aim to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimal formality. 
Ive considered everything Mrs G has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what 
I believe to be the crux of her complaint. I wish to reassure Mrs G Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
Mrs G has told us shes made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to Fox and intends to 
provide further evidence once she has received her personal data from it. However, Im satisfied I already have sufficient evidence to make findings on the complaint points shes 
raised. And I dont think anything Mrs G might obtain from a SAR is likely to change my view. 
Matters already considered or excluded
I have to consider complaints in accordance with the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, 
which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook  a copy of them is 
available online. 
The DISP Rules say that an ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without consideration of 
its merits in cases where he or she considers that dealing with such a type of complaint 
would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. This can be found in DISP 3.3.4 of the handbook. 
The rules go on to give some examples of these types of complaints. And one of the 
examples is: where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to 
the complainant). 
When our investigator issued his view to Mrs Gs previous complaint in August 2022, he said 
he would be considering the service provided by Fox since June 2021 and the issues Mrs G 
has said she was unhappy with. 
The investigator recommended Fox pay Mrs G £300 for distress and inconvenience but 
didnt recommend any payment for financial loss. Mrs G accepted the investigators outcome 
in August 2022. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider any issues, that had 
already been considered in the complaint Mrs G brought to us in January 2022. And to be 
clear, I dont have the power to consider matters relating to the complaint Fox issued its final 
response to in June 2021, because of the time limits that apply.
However, there are a few concerns Mrs G raised in the complaint she brought to us in 
November 2022, which dont appear to have been previously considered or excluded. So, I 
have considered these.
Choice of contractors
Mrs G says she believes Ms C may have had incentives to use the contractors involved in 
the claim. She says she was not given a choice in the contractors used or the opportunity to 
agree or disagree as to their appointment.
Fox says Ms C did not receive any incentives to use any particular contractors. It says Ms C 
made suggestions about contractors to use but the appointments were made by the loss 
adjuster who was appointed by the insurer. It says Ms C also asked Mrs G if she had a 
building contractor she would like to use, and she said she didnt.
Mrs G has provided an email from the insurers loss adjuster, which she says shows Fox 
appointed the contractors. However, the email refers to her brokers (Fox) introducing the 
contractors. It doesnt say Fox appointed them.
Mrs G has made various comments regarding Ms C recommending the same builders for 
other jobs and using them herself. And she says that other contractors have alluded to 
incentives being offered to Ms C by the builders to put them forward for insurance work. However, I dont think its unusual for a business to recommend contractors that it has used 
previously. And Mrs G doesnt appear to have any firm evidence that Ms C did anything 
untoward. 
Mrs G says that if Ms C asked her about contractors, it would have been within a week of the 
flood happening. She says if shed been given more time, she might have been able to 
consider this and decide on a different contractor. She says Ms C did not take proper 
instructions from her as a client.
I appreciate Mrs G has concerns about various contractors involved in her claim, and in 
hindsight, she might have preferred that different contractors had been used. But I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Fox wasnt acting in Mrs Gs best interests when 
recommending contractors. So, I havent found reason to uphold this part of Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Costs deducted from policy limits
Mrs G has complained that Fox didnt inform her that the costs of salvage, cleaning, removal 
and storage would be deducted from the amount she could claim from her contents.
Fox has provided copies of the policy documents it sent to Mrs G when she took out the 
policy. I think its clear from these that the cost of repairs as well as the cost of replacements 
would not exceed the £100,000 for General Contents or £40,000 for Art on her policy 
schedule.
Mrs G says she was under the impression that the costs shes referred to would be covered 
as general expenses by her policy. There may have been a misunderstanding on Mrs Gs 
part regarding how the policy worked, but Im not persuaded that Fox is responsible for this. 
Even if I was to reach the conclusion that Fox didnt do enough to explain what Mrs G was 
entitled to under the policy, I dont think it would be fair to say she lost out as a result.
Mrs G says Ms C should have got informed consent from her to incur these costs given the 
consequential reduction in the amount she could then claim for her property lost in the flood. 
However, the terms of the policy say the insurer will pay the cost of replacement; or the cost 
of repairs for those items which can be economically repaired. So, it was up to the insurer to 
decide whether items should be repaired or replaced, not Mrs G.
Mrs G has made a number of comments about Ms Cs removal of items to her house and 
her alleged consequential loss. She says the contractors will not bear any responsibility for 
ruined items which were removed by Ms C. Mrs G says this is new evidence since the last 
complaint and has had a significant detrimental financial impact on her and her ability to 
recover for property lost in the flood and/or the cleaning process. 
In his view to Mrs Gs previous complaint dated August 2022, the investigator said:
Fox have informed me that the boxes removed from storage by their claim handler 
contained items that had all been declared beyond economical repair by the insurer and 
would be included in any settlement from the insurer. Based on this there would have been 
no financial loss to Mrs (G), although Fox havent been able to evidence this to me. Fox 
have told me that it was clear to their claim handler that Mrs (G) was quite distressed about 
this and didnt agree with the insurers outcome. Mrs G says she found out that the costs of salvage, cleaning, removal and storage costs 
were to be taken off her contents limit in March 2022. Shes also forwarded an email the loss 
adjuster sent her in June 2022, regarding the final payment which refers to only paying up to 
the sum insured.
So, Im satisfied Mrs G would have been aware of any financial loss she might have incurred 
as a result of Ms C removing items, when she accepted our investigators outcome to her 
complaint in August 2022.
The investigator informed Mrs G of her right to refer the matter to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision if she didnt accept what hed said. However, Mrs G chose not to do so. She 
accepted the investigators recommendation that Fox pay her £300 compensation to resolve 
the matter. So, Im not persuaded that there is material new evidence that has subsequently 
become available to Mrs G which means I should consider this matter further. 
Mental health allegations
Mrs G says she would like compensation for the mental distress caused by Foxs allegations 
about her mental health, which she says were irrelevant to her complaint. She says this was 
insensitive and was done out of malice because Fox was unhappy, she was raising more 
complaints.
Mrs G alleges that Ms C made up a story about her mental health which Fox referred to in 
an email it sent her in May 2022. Mrs G has detailed her account of what happened. I 
appreciate this was distressing for her and I thank her for taking the time to do so. 
Mrs G has referred to factual inaccuracies in Foxs email, which she says is evidence that 
Ms C lied about her involvement in her mental health crisis. I dont doubt what Mrs G has 
said about the true version of events. However, Foxs reference to this incident is very brief. 
And Im not persuaded Fox referred to it in order to attack her personally or upset her. 
Mrs G says her mental health is irrelevant to her complaint. But she made reference to her 
mental health issues in the complaint form she submitted to our service in January 2022, 
which Fox would have had sight of before the emails it sent in May 2022. 
Fox was responding to concerns Mrs G had raised about the conduct of Ms C. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Fox to have made reference to Ms Cs wellbeing in the context 
that it did. It had commented that Ms C had gone out of her way to assist her in what had 
been a distressing time. 
I appreciate Mrs G disputes this, but Ms Cs conduct was part of her previous complaints, so 
this isnt something Im able to consider here.
Mrs G has also commented on Foxs use of the word seemingly, which she says implied 
that Fox was questioning the seriousness of the impact of the flood on her mental health. 
Fox says it used the word to explain that Ms C perceived Mrs G as being badly affected by 
the flood based on how she appeared. 
Having read the email, Im not persuaded that Fox was trying to attack Mrs G or challenge 
what shed said about her mental health. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell Fox to 
compensate Mrs G for any distress she might have experienced as a result of the wording or 
content of the emails.
In conclusion As explained, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider many of the issues Mrs G has 
raised as these have previously been considered or excluded under the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs G. But, having looked at the issues that dont 
appear to have been considered previously, I havent found reason to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman