DRN-3781592
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund disputed transactions carried out on Mr Cs 
account. 
What happened
Mr C had an account with Revolut. On 17 February 2022 two smart watches were registered 
on his account to be used as payment devices. On 17 February 2022 and 18 February 2022 
five payments were made using these devices totalling around 2,703 Euros.
Mr C has said he didnt register the devices onto his card, and he didnt make the disputed 
transactions. Mr C has said that he was abroad on business when the devices were 
registered with his card. He says the payments were made in a third country he has never 
travelled to.
Mr C thought his phone had been used to set up the devices when he had visited a phone 
shop during his trip abroad. The representative had taken Mr Cs phone to the back of the 
shop and had asked him for the code to unlock the phone.
Mr C noticed the transactions when he realised he had less funds than expected in his 
account.
Mr C complained to Revolut. They declined to refund Mr C. They said because Mr C had his 
card at all times and hadnt lost his phone, they couldnt agree that Mr C hadnt carried out 
the transactions. 
Mr C complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Mr C should be refunded the disputed transactions. She said Mr C had been a victim 
of fraud because a representative from a phone company had used Mr Cs phone to register 
the devices whilst Mr C was in the phone shop, without Mr Cs knowledge.
Revolut were unhappy with the view they said two codes would have been sent to the phone 
in order to set up the registrations of the watches to enable payments with the Revolut card. 
Revolut said Mr C must have been aware of these onetime passcodes.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that Mr C is 
liable for authorised payments and Revolut would be liable for unauthorised payments.
I have seen evidence that Mr C was abroad and that he went to a phone shop to change his 
mobile phone plan. 
Revolut have said that Mr C set up the watches as a payment device and authorised them to 
make payments with his card. They have said that either Mr C or someone else who he 
authorised was able to make these payments. They have also said that it is not necessary 
for the device and the customer to be in the same location in order to carry out the payments 
so the fact that Mr C was in one foreign country and the transactions took place in another 
foreign country is not relevant and doesnt show that Mr C didnt authorise the transactions. 
Generally, Revolut can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
Im satisfied from looking at the evidence that the devices were linked to Mr Cs account, and 
these had been used to carry out the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to 
this case say that is not, on its own enough to enable Revolut to hold Mr C liable. So, I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr C consented 
to the disputed transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its reasonable for Revolut to conclude Mr C authorised the 
transactions. I say this because:
Mr C has always maintained that he didnt authorise the transactions, his story has 
been consistent and plausible throughout. He says he doesnt own the watch devices 
that have been linked to the Revolut account.
Mr C has provided a plausible explanation supported by evidence that he was in a 
telephone shop abroad. He has said he handed his phone to the rep who took it to 
the back of the shop. The rep asked Mr C to give him the passcode to unlock the 
phone. Mr C had a legitimate reason to hand the phone over. I dont find it unusual 
that Mr C would trust an employee of a phone shop with his phone. I dont think its 
unreasonable in the circumstances for Mr C to have given the employee his phone 
passcode so the employee could access Mr Cs phone to carry out what Mr C 
thought was legitimate activity on his phone.
Mr C reported the fraud to the telephone company.
The time the watches are registered coincides with the time Mr C was in the phone 
shop. Its likely the passcodes were sent to the phone whilst the rep was registering 
the watches at the back of the store. And the disputed transactions occur in quick 
succession of the registration -within 24 hours  which I would expect if a fraudster 
had gained access to the devices.
Payments continued to be attempted even when declined which suggests the 
fraudster didnt have access to the phone or Revolut app to check the balance on the 
account or the status of the card.
The evidence points to the involvement of an unauthorised third party who completed the 
transactions without Mr Cs knowledge and consent so Im satisfied that Mr C shouldnt be 
held liable for the disputed transactions.
Revolut have mentioned that this is a case of apparent authority. However, I disagree 
because Mr C didnt give permission to anyone to add his Revolut card to the watches. He 
didnt give permission to the representative at the phone shop. He only gave him his phone 
not his card, so Im satisfied Mr C didnt have any intention to provide the rep with his 
Revolut details. 
For the sake of completeness, Ive gone on to consider the issue of gross negligence. A 
business might be able, in some cases, to hold a consumer liable for transactions they didnt 
make or authorise  if theyve failed with gross negligence to comply with their obligations as 
a payment service user, and that has allowed the disputed transaction(s) to take place.Whether a customer has acted with gross negligence has to be assessed on case-by-case 
basis.
So, Ive also considered whether Mr C was grossly negligent in handing the phone to the 
representative at the phone shop. 
The PSRs place an obligation on the customer to keep their security credentials safe and to 
let the bank know without undue delay when they become aware their credentials are lost or 
stolen. 
In this case Mr C handed his phone not his card to the representative and although the 
passcode for his Revolut App was the same as his phone passcode I dont think his 
behaviour can be classed as gross negligence. The test for gross negligence is an objective 
test and having thought about what a reasonable person might have done in these 
circumstances Im satisfied that a reasonable person would have done what Mr C did and 
handed over the phone and the passcode. It follows I dont think he acted with gross 
negligence.
To put things right Revolut should refund Mr C the disputed transactions together with 8% 
simple interest from the date the transactions occurred until the transactions are refunded.
Mr C has had to pursue his complaint with Revolut. Mr C was put through a great deal of 
inconvenience trying to get this issue sorted. I have read the chats between Revolut and 
Mr C and I can see that he found the whole issue distressing. I think Revolut should also pay 
Mr C £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused whilst pursuing his refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Mr C the total of the disputed transactions I understand this to be 2,703 Euros.
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest from the date of the disputed transactions to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £150 for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience. of having to go to the process of 
claiming back his money.
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks/ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Revolut must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simpleUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman