DRN-2947137
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc took too long to complete repairs on their 
tenanted property  following a claim on their landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss tenanted property suffered an escape of water on 16 July 2020. The leak 
was fixed but the water had caused damage to the lounge and the dining room.
AXA were informed of the damage on 4 August 2020 and they instructed a company to 
inspect the property. A report was completed, and that said the floor will need to be uplifted 
and replaced, and that plastering and decoration would also be required.
Mr and Mrs S say they were offered £1,100 as a cash settlement, but they didnt think that 
was enough so chose to use AXAs contractors. AXA instructed a company to firstly dry out 
the property. It isnt clear why, but this work didnt start until the following month and then 
took until 19 November 2020 to complete.
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs S agreed a cash settlement of £2,835 with AXA and arranged 
to have the remaining work completed using their preferred contractors.
Mr and Mrs S complained to AXA about how long it had all taken. AXA said they had to dry 
the property before works could be completed but they acknowledged there were delays and 
so paid Mr and Mrs S a total of £600 compensation. They also paid a further £235 in order to 
fully cover Mr and Mrs Ss contractors bill (less the policy excess applicable).
Mr and Mrs S didnt think that was enough. They said they had to chase AXA and their 
contractors to ensure the claim was moving forward. They also said whilst they didnt move 
out, their tenants had withheld rent from them due to the condition of the property.
AXA said they would consider a contribution towards the withheld rent, but Mr and Mrs S 
later said it had been paid. But they wanted compensation to be paid to the tenants.
Because the matter couldnt be resolved, Mr and Mrs S brought it to our service. An 
investigator here looked into it and felt the compensation offered to Mr and Mrs S was 
already fair. And said that while Mr and Mrs S wanted compensation for their tenants the 
policy didnt cover that  and we wouldnt award it to a third party.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with that. They said it is a landlords policy and so it does provide 
cover to the tenants. They maintain compensation ought to be paid to the tenants and that it 
can be paid directly to them if necessary.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I also think the compensation paid is fair. I accept 
the claim took longer than it ought to have done, but the final payment made in that respect 
covered Mr and Mrs Ss financial outlay (less the excess) so they are not at a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs S have also clarified that their tenants didnt withhold rent, and so they are not at 
a financial loss there either. Rather, Mr and Mrs S seem to be conscientious landlords who 
feel their tenants should receive compensation for the condition of the property. I appreciate 
why that would be the case, given there was no use of the lounge or dining room during the 
months it took to complete drying and repairs.
But its Mr and Mrs S who are party to the contract of insurance, and that means I have to 
consider the impact on them, not the impact on the tenants. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs S 
found the whole experience very frustrating and time consuming, and no doubt felt bad for 
their tenants, that is what the £600 compensation is for. I think that is a fair and reasonable 
amount for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss argument that a landlord policy should protect their tenants, but 
really its to protect Mr and Mrs S. If they didnt have insurance, then repairs and 
redecoration would be their responsibility. It does cover loss of rent or the cost of alternative 
accommodation if thats required, the policy says:
We will pay up to 20% of the buildings sum insured for any one claim for:
1 the amount of rent (including ground rent and management charges) you lose or
2 the reasonable cost of alternative accommodation for your tenants
when a private residence cannot be lived in due to loss or damage under Buildings causes 
113.
 
While I accept it wouldnt have been pleasant to live in a property without a, sometimes 
damp, lounge and dining room I dont think that meant the property was uninhabitable. The 
tenants still had a kitchen and bathroom facilities along with somewhere to sleep. And in any 
event, no such losses were incurred.
And notwithstanding that, I note that AXA said if the tenants had withheld rent, they would 
have considered a contribution towards such losses. But Mr and Mrs S clarified that rent had 
been paid and it was compensation for their tenants that they would like.
Overall, while AXA and their agents didnt handle the claim as well as they should have 
done, they have since paid fair compensation to Mr and Mrs S for the impact this had on 
them.
My final decisionIt is my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman