DRN-3741154
The complaint
Mrs J and her son Mr J say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) made false allegations 
about Mrs J to the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP). 
I will reference Mr J in this decision as he has corresponded with us throughout the 
investigation. 
What happened
The DWP carried out a compliance investigation into Mrs Js circumstances and Mr J 
believes this was because RBS tipped it off. No change was made to her benefit award after 
the review.
Mr J says the only people who could have known about their account holdings were RBS 
bank staff. And as this service had recently upheld a complaint against RBS, and awarded 
compensation, RBS had a clear motive to make false accusations. He says, whilst 
circumstantial, this evidence all points to RBS staff as the source of the information that the 
DWP acted on. So they have breached the data protection act. He asks for an apology, a full 
investigation and compensation. The incident has made them feel unsafe and stressed.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence to suggest 
RBS staff contacted the DWP. She explained that the DWP has the power to access 
individuals bank accounts to prevent fraud, but it would not be able to disclose what had 
triggered its review. She later confirmed to Mr J that RBS do not have a system to show 
each time Mrs J and Mr Js records have been viewed by bank staff: they can see when 
additions or amends are made and there are audits for when transactions are keyed. She 
explained that Mr J may be able to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) 
who are responsible for investigating any potential data breaches.
Mr J asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman based on the circumstantial 
evidence he has put forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I have considered Mr Js comments carefully. But based on the available evidence I have not 
found enough other evidence to support his claim. Whilst we cannot know the circumstances 
that led to the DWPs decision to carry out a compliance review, under the Social Security 
Fraud Act 2001 the DWP has the power to access bank account information. Similarly under 
the terms and conditions (section 14.7) of Mrs J and Mr Js account RBS has the right to 
share account holders information with government entities. To be clear I am not saying 
RBS was involved in the DWPs review, I am just explaining both parties rights. I have seen 
no evidence RBS used information in the way Mr J describes. He told us what he sees as 
the motivation for it to do so, but he has provided no evidence to support this claim.
I am sorry the compliance review unsettled and worried Mrs J, but I have found no failings 
on the part of RBS. This means I will not be making any compensatory award or instructing it 
to apologise.
As the investigator said if Mr J wishes to report a potential data breach he should
contact the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk).
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs J and Mr Js complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman