DRN-1779875
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr B on behalf of himself and his wife, Mrs B. The 
complaint is against Santander UK Plc. Mr B is unhappy that Santander would not agree to a 
further advance on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. Mr B has also complained that Santander has 
breached the Mortgage Code because it failed to keep records of conversations he had with 
a mortgage adviser in a branch. 
To settle the complaint Mr B wants Santander to waive the early repayment charge (ERC) so 
that he and Mrs B can take their mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr and Mrs B bought a property with the assistance of a mortgage from 
Santander. The mortgage is in three parts, as follows (figures taken from Santanders final 
response letter):
1. £423,404.00  Interest Only term to 01/09/2042 
2. £249,364.32  Repayment term to 01/09/2042
3. £102,595.00  Interest Only term to 01/09/2042
£775,363.32
1. This is currently on a Fixed Rate at 1.99% until 02/10/2022 and includes an ERC 
payable at 5% of the balance until that date. Currently £21,170.20.
2. Currently on a Fixed Rate at 2.34% until 02/12/2020 and includes an ERC payable at 
5% of the balance until that date. Currently £12,468.22.
3. Currently on a Fixed Rate at 2.34% until 02/12/2020 and includes an ERC payable at 
5% of the balance until that date. Currently £5,129.75. 
Information in the public domain shows the property Mr and Mrs B purchased was 
unmodernised and the dcor and finishes were dated. Mr and Mrs B were granted planning 
permission to carry out extensive renovation and extension of the property to bring it up to 
date and began the work in April 2018. Mr B has explained that this was funded from 
personal savings and a loan from his father. 
All the details of the contact between Mr B and Santander are set out in the investigators 
letter dated 17 April 2020. Mr and Mrs B and Santander have all seen that letter so I will not 
repeat it here; instead I have summarised briefly what happened:
Mr B was told on the phone in January 2019 that the maximum he could borrow from 
Santander was £5,000.
When he spoke to an adviser in a branch, Santander explained that because Mr and 
Mrs B werent residing in the property, Santander wasnt able to assist with further 
lending.
Mr B says Santander told him that, once the work was completed, Santander would be 
able to lend. Santander disputes this.
On 15 April 2019 Mr B asked Santander to lend him £140,000 to enable him to replenish 
his savings and repay the money hed borrowed from his father.
Santander explained that, under its lending policy, this was considered debt 
consolidation, and so Santander couldnt agree to this.
Mr B challenged this, and was told that Santander lends for home improvement, but not 
for debt consolidation.
Mr B said Santander had already refused to lend to him for home improvement. He 
neglected to mention that this was because he was almost at maximum loan to value 
(LTV) at the time hed asked for a home improvement loan.
Mr B then said he wanted the money to purchase a sports car.
The adviser said that Mr B had already said the purpose of the borrowing was debt 
consolidation. Nothing was resolved during this call and Mr B said he would escalate the 
matter to the Chief Executives office. 
The following day, 16 April 2019, Mr B spoke to the mortgage centre to request a further 
advance of £140,000 on the mortgage. He said hed spent £600,000 on the property but 
borrowed £140,000 from his father and needed to pay it back.
Santander explained that if there was a legal agreement between Mr B and his father to 
repay the money, it couldnt lend, but if there wasnt, the maximum borrowing was 
£50,000. If Mr B needed additional funds, hed need to look at other options.
Mr B queried this and was told this was Santanders lending policy.
Mr B spoke to Santander again on 17 April 2019, this time to the Executive Comms 
team. He explained that hed funded the refurbishment work himself and borrowed from 
his father, but said he was told that when hed completed the work, hed be able to 
borrow the funds to recoup those funds.
Santander said it would look into what Mr B had said about being told he could borrow 
additional funds once the work had been done.
On 23 April 2019 Santander called Mr B back. It was explained to Mr B again that, as he 
wanted to borrow money to cover funds that had already been spent, this was 
considered debt consolidation.
Mr B explained to Santander that, in his view this is a very simple private banking 
transaction. It might not be the day-to-day transaction  but it just needs somebody to 
talk to an underwriter to explain whats going on here He wanted Santander to refer 
the matter to one of its private bankers so that the banks standard process could be 
overridden.
Mr B said that he had six or seven other mortgage offers, but was unhappy that hed be 
charged the ERC if he went to another lender.
Although it was explained to Mr B that the further advance was outside Santanders 
lending policy, Mr B was reluctant to accept this and escalated the matter as a complaint.
After speaking to the mortgage adviser Mr B had met in branch, Santander didnt uphold the 
complaint and so Mr B brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr B said that he 
was told unequivocally by the mortgage adviser that, once the work was done, hed be able 
to take out a further advance. Mr B said that failure to keep any written record of those 
discussions was a breach of the Mortgage Code. Mr B also said that, if Santander had 
changed its policy to allow him to borrow only £50,000 to repay his father, then he should 
have been told this at the outset.Mr B said that he was trapped because he was unable to go to another lender without 
paying an exorbitant fee, which was against all the principles of Treating Customers Fairly 
(TCF).
After looking at what had happened, the investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied Santander was entitled to set its own lending criteria and wasnt 
under any obligation to lend outside of this.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings so it now falls to me to 
issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory or conflicting, I have to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the available evidence.
I confirm Ive read everything provided by Mr B and Santander, and listened to all the call 
recordings. Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr B: Im not upholding 
the complaint. These are my reasons.
I appreciate Mr B believes Santander has treated him and Mrs B unfairly. His detailed 
submissions highlight all the issues hes unhappy about. But this complaint is simpler than 
its been presented: the issue is about the exercise by Santander of its commercial judgment 
when deciding not to offer a further advance to Mr and Mrs B. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Santander. In other words, I have to decide if Santander took 
into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its 
decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions 
Santander made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk, whether it should lend and if so, on what 
terms, are clearly discretionary matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I 
would not interfere with. Additionally in deciding whether or not to lend to Mr and Mrs B, 
Santander is entitled to take account of its own interests when making such decisions. It is 
not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
Ive reviewed Santanders lending criteria for further advances. Ive accepted this information 
in confidence  as I am allowed to do, because it is commercially sensitive. After reviewing 
this, Im satisfied that Mr Bs request to borrow £140,000 to replenish his savings and repay 
his father was not within Santanders lending criteria. Santander could lend up to £50,000 to 
allow a borrower to repay a loan to a family member, if there was no legal agreement in 
place. I note during his calls to Santander Mr B wasnt sure if there was any legal agreement 
for repayment of the loan from his father.
The available evidence does not support Mr Bs contention that he was told by Santander 
that, once hed finished the work on the property, Santander would be able to offer a further 
advance to cover the cost of the work and repayment of the loan to Mr Bs father. Mr B says 
that this was a full mortgage interview, where income and affordability was checked, as well 
as borrowing against LTV. Mr B is concerned there is no record of this interview, which he says is a breach of the Mortgage Code. I will explain here that the Mortgage Code ceased to 
exist on 31 October 2004, when it was replaced by the Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
Conversely, the mortgage adviser has told us there was only an informal discussion with 
Mr B and no formal mortgage application. This is because he and his family werent living in 
the mortgaged property at the time, and so Santander couldnt consider any further 
borrowing.
On balance, I find Santanders account to be the more persuasive. If there had been a full 
mortgage application in January 2019, I would have expected there to be a record of this, 
including details of any advice and recommendation, as required by MCOB. The absence of 
any fact-find or Key Facts Illustration leads me to conclude that there was only an informal 
discussion. Im satisfied that no application proceeded at the time because it was apparent 
to Santander at the outset that, as they werent living in the property, Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances didnt meet Santanders lending criteria  and so there was no point 
progressing to a formal application.
Ive taken note of the point Mr B made to Santander in April 2019. Specifically, Mr B wanted 
his request for further funding to be considered not by staff in the mortgage centre, but by a 
private banker, who (he believed) would be able to speak to the underwriters and explain to 
them that, because of Mr Bs level of income, he should be allowed to bypass normal lending 
criteria and be approved for the further advance of £140,000.
I think Mr B might have misunderstood the position here. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage isnt a 
bespoke private banking product  its a standard regulated mortgage product available to all 
members of the public  whether modest or high earners  if they satisfy Santanders 
lending criteria for that product. Given this, I find Santander was entitled to apply its normal 
lending criteria to Mr Bs request to borrow an additional £140,000. 
Santander gave Mr B reasons for declining his request for a further advance, and so I find 
Santander fairly exercised its commercial judgment. I appreciate Mr B thinks those reasons 
are unfair and that Santanders lending criteria shouldnt apply to him in this situation. But 
overall Im satisfied Santander has done nothing wrong here. 
Mr B has asked why Santander didnt go ahead with the £50,000 loan (the maximum Mr B 
and Mrs B could borrow towards paying off the money lent by Mr Bs father). But no 
application was made for that amount, and I wouldnt expect Santander to make an 
unsolicited offer. I havent seen anything to suggest Santander changed its criteria on further 
advances after he and Mrs B first bought the property, but even if it had, Santander isnt 
required to contact all its mortgage customers every time there is a change in its lending 
policy.
Ive taken note of what Mr B has said about wanting to move to a new lender. Mr B has told 
us that he believes he is trapped because of the ERC and that this is in breach of the 
principles of TCF. But the ERC is a contractual term to which Mr and Mrs B agreed when 
they took out the mortgage. Its not a penalty  which has a strict meaning in law (a charge 
levied for breaching a contract). 
Repaying a mortgage early (in full or in part) isnt a breach of the contract; its something 
Mr and Mrs B are free to do at any time, as long as they pay the ERC to which they agreed 
when they took out the mortgage. Nor is it a breach of TCF to expect customers to adhere to 
the terms of the contract they agreed to, including any contractual provisions which apply to 
early settlement of the debt.This means that there is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
Santander to waive the ERC, should Mr and Mrs B decide to move their mortgage to another 
lender.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. I know he feels very strongly that 
Santander has unfairly applied its standard lending criteria to his specific circumstances, 
which he believes are unique and which he feels should justify Santander overriding its 
normal lending policy. For the reasons Ive given above, I disagree. Im satisfied Santander 
hasnt done anything wrong. But its worth reminding Mr B that if hes unhappy that 
Santander cant provide the bespoke banking service he wants, he and Mrs B are always 
free to move their mortgage to another business which can  subject, of course, to payment 
of any ERC that might apply on redemption of the mortgage to Santander .
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman