DRN-4344918
The complaint
A charity, which I will refer to as N, complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc is refusing to 
reimburse some unauthorised transactions on their bank account. N also say that these 
transactions were unusual to their normal account activity and as such the bank ought to 
have intervened when the payments took place, and had it done so their loss could have 
been prevented.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Briefly, in June 2020, the person who was authorised to make payments on behalf of the 
charity (who I will refer to as J) fell victim to a fraud, and nearly £15,000 was transferred out 
of Ns account. 
Alongside this, payments were also made out of another charitys account (which is part of 
the same group), and that is being considered by us under a separate complaint. 
N claimed reimbursement of the payments, but the bank did not agree. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it could not be upheld. They said, 
in summary, that the relevant payments were unauthorised. However, taking into account 
the actions of J, the bank could reasonably rely on the exception of gross negligence, to not 
reimburse the unauthorised transactions. The investigator also did not think that the 
payments were unusual or out of character to the normal account activity. N did not agree.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint, which forms part of this decision and 
should be read together with this final decision.  In summary, I said:
It is not disputed that the payments were unauthorised or that J didnt fail with intent. So, 
the question for me to decide is essentially whether J acted grossly negligently. 
Taking into account what had happened, I dont think that Js actions demonstrated such 
a significant degree of carelessness to conclude that she acted grossly negligently. In 
summary, the fraudster first panicked J into believing that something had gone wrong. 
They then established trust with her and assured her that they would help. She was also 
comforted by the fact that she was not asked to reveal the code, just to type it on the 
screen but not log-in. So, she thought the account wasnt at risk. In addition, during the 
time the payments were made, she wasnt presented with anything that would have 
alerted her to the fraud.
As noted earlier, the unauthorised payments went from two bank accounts. J was 
authorised to make payments on behalf of both. The fraudster first targeted the other 
charity account and after four payments out of it, switched to this account. Thus, what 
happened here is essentially a continuation of what happened to the other account. In 
the other case, I said that the bank ought to have intervened at least at a particular point 
in time. That was prior to any unauthorised transaction happening on this account. So, 
any effective intervention by the bank at that time would more likely have prevented 
further transactions taking place, including out of this account.
That said, I am conscious that some of the measures the bank may have taken on that 
account may not have automatically extended to this account. Thus, a block on the other 
account need not necessarily mean that an automatic block on this account would have 
happened.
So, I have reviewed the activity of this account over the previous twelve months and find 
that the set of unauthorised transactions was unusual to the normal account activity. I 
see from the relevant terms and conditions of the account, that the bank may refuse to 
make a payment if it suspects a fraudulent activity or financial crime on the account and 
such a refusal may include blocking access to the account. In this instance, it is my view 
that, given the unusual nature of the transactions, it would be fair to conclude that the 
bank ought to have suspected fraudulent activity and taken steps to contact their 
customer, failing which block the access to the account until the matter was resolved. 
So, I think that the bank also missed an opportunity here to prevent the losses to N.
Given all of the above, the bank should reimburse the unauthorised payments (less any 
recoveries), together with interest. 
What happened after my provisional decision?
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that the settlement set out in my provisional decision represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of the complaint the bank should reimburse the unauthorised
transactions on Ns account less any subsequent recoveries it returned to N in relation to 
these payments. It should also pay 8% p.a. simple interest on the amount reimbursed.  
Interest should be paid from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld, and in full and final settlement of the 
complaint The Co-Operative Bank Plc should pay N as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Raj VaradarajanOmbudsman