DRN-1855144
 
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC disclosed information about its 
bank account to someone who was not entitled to access this.
What happened
The director of W discovered that the company secretary of W, who had also invested 
money in the business, was able to speak to Barclays and discuss the bank account. As a 
result, he had said he wanted to take his investment back and threatened legal action. 
Barclays accepted it made a mistake and offered to pay W £200 in compensation for 
inconvenience.
Our investigator did not recommend that Barclays do anything more. He said that the 
company secretary was on a legitimate call with Barclays about a different business account. 
He then gave it the sort code and account number for Ws account and said he was a 
director. He was told the balance and what had happened to money he said he had paid in 
as part of a £40,000 investment. There was only one call and Barclays had said that it had 
disclosed information about past transactions as well as the balance. This should not have 
been possible and was a failure on the part of Barclays. 
But our investigator said he did not have evidence to show that this was the only thing 
leading to a breakdown in the relationship between the director and company secretary. 
Although the director had said he would not have otherwise disclosed this information that in 
itself would have likely led to trust issues. And he could not reasonably hold Barclays 
responsible for the company secretary wanting his money back or that W had to disclose a 
dispute to another and significant potential investor that W says is now not going to put in 
money. It was a matter for W as to whether it needed legal advice on that issue. He said he 
could only look at the impact on W which is a separate legal entity and not on the director 
personally who had clearly been very frustrated at what happened.
W did not agree. The director said that he was not under any obligation to given information 
about the bank account. W was in a strong position and so this failure must be the reason for 
the issue. There was nothing untoward about what W was doing and the company secretary 
had broken the law in accessing this information. The fact that he was threatening legal 
action and wanted his money back is due to the security failure. W had to make this issue 
known as part of due diligence with a new investor. The amount offered is not sufficient and 
he referred to £500 minimum for inconvenience and had asked for compensation for loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted that there was a security failure here and Barclays would not have been able 
to establish properly that the company secretary could have had access to the account as he 
was not on the account mandate. Im not looking at what he did and whether or not he 
understood the distinction between a director and company secretary. Im looking here at 
what Barclays did and the impact on W.
I understand that the investment by the company secretary had come in a period of up to 
eight weeks before his call. I dont know on what terms that was made and whether there 
was any wider dispute about how his money had been used. I am not convinced that this 
matter would not otherwise have arisen, even if Barclays had not disclosed the information. 
So I am unable to say that the only thing that would have caused it was the actions of 
Barclays based on the available evidence. I dont know what rights the company secretary 
has to withdraw his money and I cant look at what might happen only what actually has.
Given what Ive said I also dont think I can hold Barclays responsible for another investor 
choosing not to invest. There could be a whole range of factors behind that and if as W says 
the dispute here was groundless and it could show that I dont see again how that would 
have affected W. Again, I dont have evidence in any event to support that it did.
So, the issue now is about the clear inconvenience to W. We publish guidelines about 
compensation, and I am also applying my own judgement. As I say I need to separate any 
trust issues between the officials and with W from the impact of what Barclays did. Having 
done so I think that adequate compensation has already been offered and I wont be asking 
Barclays to increase this. I fully appreciate how disappointed the director of W will be.
My final decision
My decision is that I do uphold this complaint in the sense that I wont be asking Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do any more than its already offered to and which is to pay W £200 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman