DRN-2950322
The complaint
Mr W complains Motability Operations Limited (Motability) has unfairly charged him a 
stoppage allowance arrears payment and then not made a transitional support payment he 
felt he was owed.
What happened
In April 2016, Mr W took out a contract hire agreement for a brand-new car with Motability. 
The agreement was for a minimum of three years and for no longer than five years.
The use of this car is funded by the Motability Scheme, a specific all inclusive, affordable 
leasing package, created solely for the benefit of people with disabilities. Mr W was eligible 
to use his Government-funded mobility allowances to obtain a vehicle through a lease 
arrangement.
Unfortunately, in January 2020, Mr W was informed he was no longer eligible to receive the 
Enhanced Rate of the Mobility Component of Personal Independence Payment (PIP). He 
was also informed the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) would stop paying the 
Higher Rate Mobility Component of the Disability Living Allowance (DLA) from 11 February 
2020. 
Motability wrote to Mr W to explain he was no longer entitled to keep the car following the 
change in his benefit entitlement. It offered him two options:
1. Return the car to the dealer in a good condition by 7 April 2020 and receive a transitional
support payment of £2,000 to help you organise your future mobility arrangements; or
2. Keep the car for an extended period until 11 August 2020 but the transitional support
payment would be reduced to £500.
But, in March 2020, the UK was placed into a national lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. The dealership was closed, and Mr W was unable to return his car. The 
agreement with Motability was terminated on 27 June 2020.
In July 2020, the DWP reassessed Mr Ws entitlement to disability benefits. It changed its 
earlier decision and confirmed Mr W was indeed eligible for the enhanced mobility element 
of PIP. It reinstated the benefit and backdated payments to 12 February 2020.
Motability spoke with Mr W to explain he would need to make the payments due for leasing 
the car as he had full use of it and the DWP had reinstated the payment. Mr W disputed this. 
He said he had received a text to say he wouldnt need to make any payments as the 
dealership was closed and so he couldnt return the car.
When it was safe to do so, Mr W returned the car and was expecting to receive a transitional 
support payment (TSP) of up to £2,000. 
On 6 August 2020, Motability wrote to Mr W to inform him the car hadnt been returned in an 
acceptable condition and so he wasnt eligible to receive this payment. Mr W was very 
unhappy with this outcome and so he complained.
On 21 September 2020, a Motability representative sent an email advising Mr W that it didnt 
uphold his complaint and the after considering the inspection report from the dealership he 
wasnt eligible for the TSP due to the condition of the car.
Dissatisfied, Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. In his view, he found it fair and reasonable that 
Motability requested the monthly payments for the car for the period Mr W had use of it. He 
also looked carefully at the inspection report and found that the car hadnt been returned in a 
good condition. As TSP is a discretionary payment, he couldnt agree that Motability had 
been unfair in not awarding it and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr W disagreed. He feels any damage to the car was due to fair wear and tear and as, yet 
no-one has explained why the condition of the car was damaged beyond that so that he 
wasnt eligible for TSP. He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr W, Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The investigator has already set out the terms of the agreement between Mr W and 
Motability and specifically Motabilitys right to terminate the agreement, so I dont intend to 
repeat this here. Motability were informed by DWP that Mr W was no longer eligible for the 
benefits which entitled him to a Motability car. The terms and conditions of the agreement 
meant that when it was advised of this, Motability could end the agreement and ask Mr W to 
return the car. So, I dont think it treated Mr W unfairly by doing so.
 
DWP and Motability are separate legal entities so I cant hold Motability responsible for the 
actions of DWP. It was down to DWP to determine whether Mr W was entitled to the 
required benefits to make him eligible for the Motability scheme. I understand Mr W didnt 
agree and successfully challenged that decision. But DWP isnt a regulated financial 
business and this service cant consider complaints about it or its decisions on benefit 
entitlement.In any case, I dont think this point is in dispute, but issues arose following the UK lockdown 
and Mr W being unable to return the car and the dealership being unable to open and accept 
returns.
The UK lockdown affected everyone and so neither party are at fault for the delay in 
returning the car. But Mr W still had full use of it during this period. And after he mounted a 
successful challenge to the initial DWP decision, his benefit was reinstated in July 2020 and 
he was awarded a backdated payment, to February 2020. As the investigator has already 
said the Higher rate element of the disability benefit would normally have been paid directly 
to Motability but as it formed part of the backdated award it was paid to Mr W instead. This 
amounted to £1,224 for 137 days of allowance.
I understand Mr W says he received a text from message from Motability advising that he
wouldnt be charged for use of the car between 7 April 2020 and 29 June 2020. But 
Motability disputes this. It says it doesnt regularly text customers and has no record of such 
as text. Mr W hasnt been able to provide any evidence of the text message either. So, in its 
absence Im not able to determine what it said.
Motability has said it has made the charge, otherwise known as a stoppage allowance 
arrears payment, as Mr W has had full use of the car and the DWP have reinstated the 
benefit and back dated the charge, so it asks for the payments accordingly.
Im in agreement with the investigators view that Mr W has had use of the car during this 
period and the DWP have backdated the reinstated benefit for the same period. So, it 
follows, I find it fair and reasonable that Mr W pays what, would under normal 
circumstances, would have gone directly to Motability ion the first place.
Ive then looked at the issue of Motability not paying a transitional support payment after Mr 
W, returned the car. If customers are no longer eligible for the Motability Scheme following 
their reassessment for PIP by the DWP and who then have to return the car, Motability offers 
a transitional support package (TSP), to assist customers.
Its important to say that TSP is a discretionary payment. It does not form part of the 
contractual agreement. It can be an award up to £2,000. One of the prerequisites for this 
award is for the car to be returned in a good condition.
Mr W asks what fair wear and tear is, and how is this determined. When considering fair 
wear and tear, this service takes account of the industry guidelines. The guidelines for what 
are considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
But in this case, the TSP payment is not part of the contractual agreement. So, whether the 
damage identified in the inspection is within or outside these guidelines is not the issue. The 
payment is discretionary. Having looked at the photographic evidence, there is visible 
damage to the car and so I cant say Motability has acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
making the payment. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed, but Im not going to ask 
Motability to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman