DRN-1326337
The complaint
Mr G complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Limited (M&S) gave him incorrect 
information about his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont name anyone 
else.
Where I refer to M&S, I refer to Marks & Spencer Financial Services Limited and I include 
call-handlers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
Mr G had a comprehensive motor policy in the name of M&S. M&S acted as an intermediary 
between Mr G and an insurance company that was responsible for dealing with claims under 
the policy.
Mr G was the policyholder. His wife was covered as a named driver.
In early March 2019, Mr G reported to M&S that his wife had been injured and his car had 
been damaged in an accident caused by a third party.
M&S offered Mr G its hire and repair service, the cost of which it would claim from the third 
party. Instead, Mr G made a claim to his insurance company.
In April 2019, Mr G contacted M&S again. He complained that it had deliberately given him 
incorrect information.
M&S sent final response letters dated 24 April, 15 May and 22 May 2019.
Mr G brought his complaint to us on 27 June 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
M&S manipulated Mr G.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
M&S knowingly provided false information in an attempt to dissuade him from dealing 
directly with the insurance company. 
M&S told him that if it handled his claim there would be no excess to pay, but if he 
made a claim to his insurance company he would very likely have to pay the excess.
M&S knew this was completely false.
Liability was the only issue that would determine whether he had to pay the excess.
He told M&S his wife was hospitalised twice in a two-week period as a result of the 
accident.
The last thing he needed was M&S trying to manipulate him for its own gain
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies provide that if a policyholder makes a claim on the policy, he 
will have to pay an amount known as a policy excess. That is usually the case whether the 
policyholder was at fault or not. But an insurance company may decide to waive the excess 
in certain circumstances.
If the policyholder suffers an excess, it is an uninsured loss which he may (in due course) 
recover from any third party who was responsible for causing the loss.
From the recording of the call on 7 March 2019, I accept that M&S said the following:
with [the insurance company] you would very likely have your excess to pay. If 
you go through us, we would offer you our services and you wouldn't have an excess 
to pay.
I dont find that an inaccurate statement.
From the recording of the call on 8 March 2019, I accept that M&S said the following:
The only thing that we do advise and have to advise is that if you go through [the 
insurance company] thats when the excess will have to be paid
obviously, we cant 100% guarantee that it will be paid or not but going through the 
underwriter thats what they require is as an excess because its set through them ...  
we cant say 100% if the excess has to be paid with them but going through them 
thats when it more than likely will have to be paid .
 its a requirement that [the insurance company] has.
So M&S quickly clarified that it wasnt certain, but it was more than likely that an excess 
would have to be paid on a claim to Mr Gs insurance company. I dont find that an 
inaccurate statement.
In any event, Mr G had already said that hed decided to make a claim to the insurance 
company  which he later did. So M&S didnt persuade him to use its hire and repair service. 
And I dont consider that it wouldve been appropriate for M&S to tell Mr G he only had a 
short time to change his mind. 
From the recording of the call on 18 April, I find that the insurance company had indeed 
asked Mr G to pay the excess  and that was why he rang M&S.
M&S told Mr G it could no longer offer him its hire and repair service because it was 
more than 21 days since the accident. In its final response letter dated 24 April 2019, M&S 
apologised that this was an incorrect timescale. But it said that the correct timescale 
wouldve been 48 hours. So Mr G had already been well outside the timescale.In any event, I cant say that M&S was under any obligation to again offer its hire and repair 
service to Mr G. 
M&S sent Mr G a payment of £15.00. I dont think that helped the situation. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Gs statement that the third partys insurer accepted liability 
and he didnt have to pay the excess. But that doesnt show that in March 2019 it was a 
likely outcome that Mr G wouldnt have to pay the excess.
Overall, I dont find that M&S treated Mr G unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
M&S to pay any more compensation to Mr G or to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman