DRN-3794034
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund her money she lost as a result of an 
investment fraud.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, I have summarised
them briefly below.
Mrs C was looking to get involved in investments. She found a business advertised on a
legitimate cryptocurrency trading website that was offering good returns on cryptocurrency
investments.
Mrs C contacted the business and, after registering herself with them, decided to invest.
Over the course of thirteen days, Mrs C was persuaded to take out a number of loans and
make several high value payments to a cryptocurrency wallet totalling £79,083.12.
Unfortunately, it later transpired that Mrs C had fallen victim to a fraud. She reported it to
HSBC which looked into her claim but didnt think it should be held liable. Mrs C, unhappy
with this, referred her complaint to our service for an independent review.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties, but felt HSBC should have
done more. They concluded that the payments were out of character and unusual when
comparing them to Mrs Cs normal account activity. And they also felt HSBC missed an
opportunity to intervene and break the spell of the fraud. A recommendation was made to
reimburse Mrs C the money she lost including interest.
HSBC didnt agree with the Investigators assessment or recommendations. So, the matter 
was passed to me for a decision. On 1 March 2023 I issued my provision findings to both 
parties, giving them until 15 March 2023 to respond with any further comments and 
evidence. My provisional findings were as follows:
Were the payments out character for Mrs Cs account?
Businesses, such as HSBC, have a long-established obligation to process payments in line
with its customers instruction. But this obligation must be carefully balanced against other
legal, regulatory and good practice obligations to protect its customers from fraud and
financial harm, among other things. I acknowledge that this can sometimes be a difficult
balance for businesses to strike.
In order for HSBC to fulfil these obligations, it should be on the lookout for transactions that
are out of character or unusual for a customers account. And where necessary, intervene
or, in some circumstances, prevent payments from being made altogether.
Mrs C was using her HSBC account regularly and for day-to-day spending. The first
payment made to Mrs Cs cryptocurrency wallet was on 14 April 2021 for £6,000. This was
closely followed by another £4,000 payment the same day. Having looked at Mrs Cs bank
statements prior to these two payments, I find that both of these payments were out of
character and unusual in comparison to her typical account activity.
Prior to the payment of £6,000, Mrs C hadnt made any transfers or payments from her
account that were of a similar value. Other than regular small value card payments and
regular Direct Debits, there are only a small number of transfers from the account, normally
to regular payees, for values significantly lower than the initial £6,000. So, I find this payment
does stand out and should have been deemed out of character. It presents a number of risk
indicators, such as a significant increase in spending, to a new payee and being preceded
by a large payment into the account from a credit provider. These are all indicators that a
person may be at risk of fraud.
I therefore find that these payments should have been flagged by HSBC and intervention
should have occurred.
Would intervention by HSBC have made a difference to the outcome?
HSBC didnt intervene in the first payment made on the account, so it is difficult to say for
certain what any intervention would have meant. But there are elements of the evidence
presented that persuade me intervention would have likely caused Mrs C to take a step back
and consider the payments she was being requested to make.
Following the two payments Ive highlighted above, Mrs C did attempt another £10,000
payment to her cryptocurrency wallet the same day. HSBC did stop this payment for fraud
checks as it identified it as a risk. This prompted Mrs C to contact the bank and discuss the
payment with a member of staff.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs C and the HSBC representative. Mrs C was asked what
the payment was for, and she was honest about this. She told the representative that she
was sending the money for a cryptocurrency investment and the payment was eventually to
be made to her advisor at the firm she was investing with. Therefore, I have no reason to
believe Mrs C would have been dishonest with HSBC about the purpose of her payment had
it intervened sooner.
Some the information provided to the representative should have caused concern. Rightly 
so, the advisor identified the unusual nature of sending funds directly to an advisor rather
than to the business she was trading with. And this clearly had an impact on Mrs C as she
became noticeably cautious about the payment and asked the representative to reverse the
payment. However, the representative didnt probe any further or advise Mrs C on how she
might check the company she was dealing with was legitimate.
Mrs C didnt appear to be knowledgeable regarding the investment she was to embark on,
and merely stated on the call shed return to the advisor and check everything was ok before
attempting the payment again. But the advisor had already been identified by the 
representative of HSBC to be acting in a way that was consistent with scams, but this wasnt
challenged, and no warnings were provided. The representative of HSBC also missed an
opportunity to educate Mrs C on the common features of investments scams and pick up the
on the substantial credit into the account from a finance provider which was equal to the
£20,000 shed transferred or attempted to transfer that day.
As Mrs C had been honest with HSBC on the call, I find it likely that had these facts been
questioned, she would have likely disclosed that shed been asked to take out loans to fund
the investments. This would have been a significant red flag to HSBC that I find would have
led to a conclusion that Mrs C was likely being defrauded.For all the above reasons, I find HSBC did miss an opportunity to effectively identify and
warn Mrs C that she was being defrauded. And for those reasons, I find it should take
responsibility for Mrs Cs loss.
Should Mrs C share liability for her loss?
HSBC has argued that even had it been able to stop the payments and prevent Mrs C falling
victim to the fraud, she should share some liability for the loss due to a lack of due diligence
carried out on the business she was trading with. It also feels Mrs C ignored some of the red
flags she was presented with throughout.
Having considered the evidence carefully, Im minded to agree with the some of the
arguments HSBC has raised.
Mrs C has admitted that the only due diligence check she carried out was via Companies
House. However, having checked the register myself, Im unable to find any company that is,
or was, trading at the time by that name. The only business that bears a similar resemblance
was dissolved prior to Mrs C beginning contact with the fraudsters.
Ive also carried out general open resource checks on the website where Mrs C was directed
towhich was the same name as the businessand can see reviews pre-dating Mrs Cs
contact with them highlighting that the company was fraudulent and that numerous victims
had been subjected to the same fraud.
I also agree with HSBCs submission that Mrs C failed to pick up on some of the red flags
she was presented with throughout her dealings with the fraudsters.
Mrs C, through her representative, informed our service in October 2022 that she took the
loans out that funded the investment for genuine home improvements prior to proceeding
with the investment. She further submitted that she didnt lie about the purpose of the loans.
However, this contradicts a conversation Mrs C had with our service when setting up her
complaint in May 2021. Ive listened to the call Mrs C had with a representative of our
service and she was explicit in the fact that she had been instructed by the fraudsters to take 
out the loans, lie to the credit providers and say they were for home improvements.
Considering the dates the loans were paid into Mrs Cs account, and that this was Mrs Cs
initial testimony, I find the earlier explanation to be the more realistic one and in line with
known fraud patterns.
Mrs C acknowledged to the representative over the telephone that she doubted the reasons
why she was being asked to lie to a legitimate business. She also expressed her doubt
surrounding the unrealistic returns being promised by the fraudster. I find these factors to be
compelling in questioning Mrs Cs reasons for continuing with payments where she held little
information about the company she was dealing with and had doubts about the instructions
she was given.
Having said this, I want to acknowledge that I do think Mrs Cs comments were made with
the benefit of hindsight, and its clear to me that Mrs C was in a vulnerable position at the
time. From the evidence Ive seen, Mrs C has demonstrated that she was suffering
emotional distress at the time she fell victim to the fraud. She has told our service that she
was going through a difficult time as shed recently gone through a divorce, had become a
single parent and was trying her best to improve her familys financial situation.
Im empathetic to Mrs Cs situation and the fact that she has been a victim of a cruel and
lifechanging fraud. But when considering what is fair and reasonable here, I find she must share equal liability for her loss for all the reasons Ive given above.
The time limit for both parties to respond has now elapsed. So Im now in a position to come 
to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. Theyve both agreed with the 
findings set out in that decision and have provided no further comment or evidence for me to 
consider.
I therefore dont intend to depart from my provisional findings which stand as my reasoning 
for the outcome Ive highlighted below.
Putting things right
HSBC should now go ahead and repay Mrs C 50% of the funds she lost as a result of the
fraud. Ive calculated this to be £39,541.56. This should deduct the £192.84 Mrs C was paid
back from her cryptocurrency wallet.
Ive also had to consider an appropriate amount of interest to award here considering the
complex nature of where the funds have originated from. Im mindful that Mrs C has funded
the payments to the fraudster through a number of different sources, including from various
bank accounts and loans from credit providers.
It's not possible to quantify Mrs C's exact losses given the number of factors at play. In view
of this, my intention with the interest to be awarded has been to take a pragmatic approach,
based on what interest I consider is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As such, it is
my view that HSBC should add 8% simple annual interest on top of the amount to be
reimbursed from the date of the payments to the date it settles the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse Mrs C £39,348.72 of her losses
Pay 8% simple annual interest from the date the payments were made, to the date it
settles the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman