DRN-4073125
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) handling of a claim 
made under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K lost his phone so he made a claim to AIG, the provider of his mobile phone insurance 
policy. AIG asked Mr K for documents and information in support of his claim to validate it. 
Ultimately Mr Ks claim was accepted by AIG. However, despite Mr K asking for the cash 
settlement to be paid to a new bank account, AIG attempted payment to a closed account 
which caused delays in Mr K receiving the settlement. Mr K was unhappy with this, along 
with not receiving call backs from AIG.
AIG offered Mr K compensation for what had happened. But there was a delay in paying 
this, so the compensation amount was increased by AIG. Across the claim and complaints 
AIG paid a total of £235 compensation.
Mr K feels £1,000 is a fairer amount of compensation and asked this service to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend AIG do anything 
further. She agreed things had gone wrong, but she felt the compensation already paid by 
AIG was fair, so she didnt recommend AIG do anything further.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
It isnt disputed by AIG that things went wrong, and this is why theyve paid a total of £235 
compensation across the claim and complaints. AIG recognised Mr K was unhappy with 
being asked to provide documents, but this was part of their claim process in order to 
validate the claim, along with requiring an excess payment. I dont think AIG acted unfairly 
by requesting information from Mr K in support of his claim or applying an excess.
AIG accept that the service they provided wasnt in line with Mr Ks reasonable expectations. 
Call backs werent completed, and Mr K wasnt able to speak to a manager when he 
requested to. And there were delays in some parts of the claim and complaint settlements 
being made.
Whilst Mr K had asked AIG to change the account which the claim cash settlement was 
being paid to, this had already been processed, so AIG needed to wait for it to bounce back 
before they could pay it to the correct new account details. However, having listened to the 
calls, this wasnt made clear to Mr K at the time, and whilst it likely couldnt have been 
avoided, explaining this to Mr K would have managed his expectations.
AIG accepts things went wrong and theyve paid a total of £235 compensation. Having 
considered everything that happened, I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Im not going to direct AIG to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman