DRN-3215458
The complaint
Mr B complained about the delay by MCE Insurance Limited (MCE) in issuing his proof of 
no claims bonus (NCB). MCE were Mr Bs broker for his motorcycle policy.  
What happened
Mr B had a motorcycle policy with an insurer that expired on 11 November 2020. As Mr B 
approached the end of his policy term, he decided to switch to a different insurer once his 
policy had expired. Mr B wouldve accrued three years NCB when his policy expired.
When setting up Mr Bs new policy, Mr Bs new insurer asked for proof of Mr Bs NCB. So, 
on 22 October 2019, Mr B emailed MCE to ask for proof of his NCB. As Mr B received no 
reply from MCE he contacted them again on 27 October 2020, 29 October 2020 and 13 
November 2020 requesting proof of his NCB. When MCE failed to respond, Mr B raised a 
complaint on 17 November 2020.
MCE said it was unable to issue the proof Mr B required until his policy had lapsed. MCE 
investigated the complaint and said its service didnt meet its expectations and it issued Mr B 
a payment for £50 for the inconvenience caused as it didnt issue Mr B his proof of NCB until 
2 December 2020.
Due to the delays in Mr B being able to provide proof of his NCB to his new insurer, the 
insurer re-calculated Mr Bs premium on the basis he didnt have any NCB, which resulted in 
it increasing by £295.73. 
MCE said Mr B didnt inform it that he was at risk of having a future policy cancelled. MCE 
said if it had been aware, MCE may have been able to liaise with the insurer to see if any 
steps could be taken to provide this directly. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the compensation paid by 
MCE was fair for the poor service it offered. However, he thought the delay in MCE issuing 
the proof of NCB had financially impacted Mr B. So, he asked MCE to liaise with Mr Bs new 
insurer, to ensure the accrued NCB was properly recorded and to ask the insurer to refund 
the excess premium. If the insurer wouldnt refund the excess premium, then he asked MCE 
to refund it themselves. MCE disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 16 November 2021. I said:
Mr B said he was waiting six weeks for proof of his NCB. I have seen evidence supporting 
this. Mr Bs policy expired on the 11 November. Its normal practice in the insurance industry 
for insurers to wait until a policy has expired before issuing proof of NCB for that policy. So, 
whilst I see Mr B had chased MCE for proof before his current policy had expired, I dont 
think MCE has acted unfairly to this point. However, MCE didnt issue the proof of NCB until 
two weeks later. I think it couldve done this quicker, so I have looked at the impact of this.
Mr B was looking at getting a new policy from a different insurer to coincide with the expiry of 
his current policy. Mr B accepted a quote for a new policy which was based on the level of 
NCB Mr B had told the new insurer he had. Mr Bs new insurer asked for proof of the NCB to 
be provided within seven days of the start of the policy. As MCE hadnt provided this to Mr B, 
he was unable to share it with his new insurer. So, the new insurer cancelled Mr Bs new 
policy. 
Mr B proceeded to get a new quote provided by the new insurer which was based on him 
having zero NCB. Mr B accepted the quote which was £293.73 higher. I think its reasonable 
to assume the impact of not having the proof of NCB caused the premium to increase by this 
amount. 
Mr B said that he wasnt able to add the NCB to his policy retrospectively and receive a 
refund from his new insurer. However, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence to 
support this. Its usual for a new insurer to refund part of the premium when evidence is 
provided of the NCB to it after the policy has commenced. 
I think MCE couldve issued the proof of NCB earlier and this has initially led to a financial 
loss for Mr B. However, as its normal for this to be refunded and the correct level of NCB to 
be recorded by the new insurer, I think its important that Mr B provides written evidence 
from his new insurer that its unwilling to refund the increase in premium hes incurred. 
Without this, I think its likely and sensible to assume that the new insurer wouldve refunded 
the additional premium paid and updated his NCB record accordingly if the proof of NCD 
was provided. Therefore, without this evidence, I wont be able to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.
However, as MCE did delay providing the proof of NCB. It caused Mr B some distress and 
inconvenience as it hindered his efforts to secure a new policy at the right price based using 
the correct level of NCB. Mr B will make an additional effort arranging his refund. MCE did 
acknowledge the delay and paid Mr B £50 for this. MCE said Mr B didnt notify them that a 
future policy maybe cancelled. However, as Mr B raised the need for proof 5 times with 
MCE, I think it shouldve realised this was important to Mr B. So, whilst I accept it couldnt 
issue the proof of NCB until the policy expired on 11 November, I think it shouldve issued 
this immediately when the policy expired. Therefore, I intend to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint. I intend to award a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
the delay caused in the circumstances of this complaint, as Mr B had made several requests 
to MCE to issue the proof of NCD.
Responses to my provisional decision
MCE disagreed with my provisional decision. MCE said it awarded £50 to Mr B as he had 
not been financially impacted by this however, we do recognise that it was frustrating to 
contact MCE following the expiry of the policy to request this. Based on this, we still feel £50 
is a fair amount to award the customer.
Mr B didnt reply to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MCE recognises the frustration it caused Mr B, but disagreed with the level compensation I 
awarded for distress and inconvenience. However, given neither party has provided any new 
information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
B:
£100*  compensation for distress and inconvenience the delay caused (in addition 
to the £50 already paid)
MCE Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman