DRN-3370072
The complaint
Miss B complains that she was misled by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  trading as 
very (very) and paid interest.
What happened
Miss B had a BNPL (Buy Now Pay Later) agreement with very. In the statement dated May 
2020 her balance was £978.76 and the limit was £2,500. Miss Bs income was affected by 
the pandemic - she had no work. On 5 June 2020, very agreed a three-month payment 
holiday. Miss B didnt make the payment to her account due on 28 August 2020 and was 
charged interest of £544.87. 
Miss B complained. She said she wanted an extension to the payment holiday and called to 
arrange that  on 24 August 2020. She was told to call back. On the call she says she was 
advised that no interest would be charged and that the next payment due was in September 
2020. She wants the interest refunded.
Very said that Miss B was emailed on 24 August 2020 to say that normal payments would 
resume. And before that, on 8 August 2020, theyd emailed Miss B to say that her BNPL was 
due to expire on 28 August 2020  and that if the balance wasnt paid by that date, interest 
would be payable. The amount due was also shown on her statements. Very had listened to 
the call which took place on 24 August 2020 and said their adviser had correctly told Miss B 
that there wasnt a payment due on 28 August 2020, and if she wanted a further payment 
freeze, she should call back on 5 September 2020  when her circumstances could be 
discussed.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator felt that very acted fairly. He said Miss 
B had a payment holiday which ran for three months from 5 June 2020 to 5 September 
2020. The final date for the BNPL agreement was 28 August 2020  and if Miss B didnt 
make the payment of £779.86 by then, interest due would then be charged. On the call with 
very on 24 August 2020, Miss B was told that no payment was due on 28 August 2020 and 
the next one was due on 25 September 2020. This was confusing but he didnt think that 
even if clearer information had been given to Miss B on the call, things wouldve been 
different  as Miss B didnt have any income and it was unlikely that she wouldve been able 
to pay the amount due (£779.86) anyway  even if it was payable later.
Miss B didnt agree. She said she was told that no interest would be payable. She said she 
wanted the interest refunded. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to Miss Bs complaint: 1) she said she was told she wouldnt be 
charged interest 2) she was misinformed on the call on 24 August 2020.
Miss B asked for and was given a payment holiday on 5 June 2020 for three months. This 
was agreed in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including very, 
had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including BNPL 
agreement  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
What this meant was that the payments due on Miss Bs BNPL purchases were pushed out 
for a three-month period- until 28 August 2020. But its important for Miss B to understand 
that when very agreed to the payment holiday  it was a deferral of the monthly payments. 
But  interest was still payable on the balance she owed. And when the payment holiday 
came to an end, the interest was due to be paid  and at the rate of 39.9% per annum. In 
other words, monthly payments and interest are two different things.
I considered whether very had explained this to her clearly. I looked at the email that very 
sent Miss B on 5 June 2020 when the payment holiday was set up. It said Your payment 
freeze has now been applied to your account; no  further payments are required during this 
agreed period.The delayed payment periods (and payment due dates) for all purchases 
you may have made on a BNPL basis, and where the delayed payment period has not yet 
expired, will be extended by 3 months. Where applicable, this means that you will have an 
additional 3 months to repay the balance(s) of your BNPL purchases and avoid the interest 
that would otherwise have been charged when payments become due. If you do not make 
payments towards any BNPL item(s) and/or settle the outstanding balance(s) during the 
extended delayed payment period(s), the payment freeze will result in you paying more 
interest in the long term. In other words  very said that while payments were stopped, 
interest continued to be charged.
I can see that Miss B called very several times during the three-month payment holiday and 
said she still had no income. She was told each time that she had a payment freeze  
which was correct. She then emailed very and on 8 August 2020 very replied confirm that 
you have no minimum payment due this month. Please see your next Buy Now Pay Later 
due date below; Your Delayed Payment Period Is Ending Soon. Estimated Interest For The 
Entire Delayed Payment Period Is £566.28. Aug 2020 (Statement 25) - Balance £834.86 - 
You Can Avoid The Interest On These Buy Now Pay Later Item(s), Estimated At £566.28, By 
Paying The Balance By 28 Aug 2020. Please be advised that if you are unable to clear your 
outstanding cash price by 28 August 2020, the outstanding balance and interest will be 
charged to your account. So  very did explain to Miss B that interest was to be paid if she 
didnt clear the balance due by 28 August 2020. And she could avoid that by paying the 
amount due by then.
On 24 August 2020, very emailed Miss B Your next payment due date is the last one 
covered by your agreed payment freeze period. We are writing to you to let you know that 
your next payment which would have been due on 28/08/2020 is the last one that will be 
covered by your agreed temporary payment freeze. As a reminder, your next payment after 
the one detailed above due on or before 25/09/2020 and should be made as normal.
I suspect that Miss Bs call to very on 24 August 2020 was made because of this email. Ive 
listened to the call. Miss B asked for an extension to the payment holiday as she still had no 
work or income. The call handler said three times that the next payment due date was 25 
September 2020  which was correct. The call handler asked that she call back after 5 September 2020 to discuss an application for a payment holiday extension  which would 
depend on her circumstances and what was affordable.  He went on to say that a payment 
arrangement might be the right thing for Miss B  as that charged no interest but involved 
the marking of her credit file. I think thats where Miss B got the impression from that no 
interest would be payable on the payment holiday  which wasnt the case, as Ive 
explained. It looks like there was a misunderstanding on the part of Miss B.
In an ideal world, verys call handler may have also explained to Miss B about the interest 
that was due to be charged on 28 August 2020  but he didnt. Ive considered whether he 
should have  and therefore whether this meant that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. 
But on balance, I dont think he needed to  as Miss B didnt mention interest at all on the 
call  as she was just asking about her monthly payments. Nor did any of her earlier emails 
to very mention charging of interest.
And also  looking at the fact that Miss B had a number of communications in writing about 
the charging of interest and how the payment holiday worked -  on balance, I dont think it 
would be fair to say that very acted unreasonably.
I accept that Miss B will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask very to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman