DRN-3505199
The complaint
Mr M complains The Enterprise Fund Limited (TEFL) mis-sold him a loan.
What happened
Mr M wanted a loan to fund his business, which is a limited company. He applied for a loan 
online through a government backed programme (which Ill call S) aimed at helping small 
businesses through start-up loans. S passed Mr Ms details to a delivery partner (which Ill 
call B). B acted as a credit broker and referred the finalised application to TEFL, which as a 
creditor issued the loan. It was a personal loan for business use.
A few of months later Mr M complained. He said the loan had been mis-sold to him. He also 
said, among other things, the loan had been issued to him when it should have been issued 
to his limited company and hed applied for a bounce back loan, not a start-up loan. TEFL 
said, in summary, if Mr M was unhappy with the sale of the loan, hed need to revert to S or 
B as it only handled the draw-down and administration of the loan. A complaint against B 
has been considered separately. 
Mr M asked our service for an independent review. The investigator said a complaint about 
the way the loan was set up was better dealt with against B. She went on to consider 
whether TEFL had treated Mr M fairly in its draw-down and administration of the loan. She 
concluded it had as when Mr M was having difficulties making repayments it offered 
appropriate support. Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has numerous complaint points. I have read and considered them all. I will, however, 
focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching a fair outcome to this 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
The loan process involved three parties  as set out above. S and B were the parties dealing 
for the application process. I have already addressed Mr Ms complaint against B where I 
found  in summary  Mr M was given enough information to understand what he was 
applying for. I therefore didnt agree the loan had been mis-sold. I wont comment on the 
sale of the loan further in this complaint. I will, however, consider the actions of TEFL in the 
draw-down and administration of the loan. 
Mr M questions why the loan was paid to his personal account and a direct debit set up to 
take the loan repayments from his personal account. He further says he didnt know the loan 
money had been paid to him until his bank contacted him about a new direct debit. 
The loan agreement shows a direct debit mandate in Mr Ms name  not the name of his 
limited company. An email sent to Mr M on 2 September 2020 (the day the loan was 
finalised) said:
Please note, your repayments will be drawn from your personal bank account by direct debit 
on the same date each month. Please ensure you have sufficient funds available to make 
your contractual payments.
And in a message sent to B on 8 September 2020 Mr M said:
My start up loan is approved. I signed the documents. When and where do they send funds. 
To which account? 
I find it more likely than not Mr M gave his personal account details during the application 
process and these were used by TEFL. This wasnt wrong or unreasonable given this was a 
personal loan. Mr M knew the loan money was being paid to him and in my view he would 
have quickly realised he had £25,000 more than he expected in his personal account, and 
known where it came from. 
The loan repayments were £483.67 a month. By January 2021 Mr M was two months in 
arrears so TEFL sent him an arrears letter. By February 2021 Mr M was three months in 
arrears so TEFL sent him a default notice. Theres nothing unusual about this. A lender 
should offer support when a borrower is struggling financially. I can see thats what TEFL did 
when it offered Mr M repayment deferrals, meaning he wouldnt need to make any 
repayments between March and July 2021. Im satisfied TEFL offered Mr M appropriate 
support.
Mr M is concerned about adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies. 
TEFL, however, has a duty to report accurate account information. Mr M wasnt making his 
contractual repayments and wasnt in a formal repayment plan or repayment deferral, which 
as I understand it is what TEFL reported. Im not requiring TEFL to report something 
different. 
Im sorry to hear about the impact Mr M says this matter has had on him and I accept hell 
most likely be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this final
decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman