DRN-1098622
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt update his 
address when a debt was referred back to them from a third-party agency they used to 
collect repayments. 
What happened
Mr Bs Barclaycard account entered their recoveries process in September 2014. 
Barclaycard referred Mr Bs account to a third-party agency, who Ill refer to as A, to collect 
repayments on their behalf in May 2016. Mr B made repayments of £35 a month between 
July 2016 and November 2017. The account was then referred back to Barclaycard from A 
in December 2017 and repayments subsequently stopped. 
Barclaycard referred Mr Bs account to a different third-party agency who, Ill refer to as R, 
between December 2017 and June 2018 but they were unable to collect any payments. The 
account was then sold to R in April 2019.
After being contacted by R in May 2019 about the outstanding debt, Mr B raised a complaint 
to Barclaycard about not being told his account was referred away from A in December 
2017. And that even though he updated his address with A, Barclaycard didnt update their 
records when it was referred back to them. So, other than a November 2018 letter informing 
him of a refund of charges, he didnt hear anything further from Barclaycard about his 
account. 
Barclaycard explained they were never advised of Mr Bs change of address when his 
account was referred back to them from A. But, as A acted on their behalf, they accepted 
responsibility for this happening and confirmed feedback had been provided. They also said 
that correspondence sent is private and confidential and so they couldnt be held responsible 
for mail being opened by an unauthorised party. Barclaycard offered Mr B £50 compensation 
for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Barclaycard also explained that the letter of November 2018, which Mr B received while his 
address wasnt updated, came from a team that deals predominately with accounts that 
have had ownership transferred or havent had any contact for some years. So their process 
is to do an address trace for the sole purpose of their project/letter and theyre not permitted 
to change addresses held on Barclaycards system. 
Mr B remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to our service. He says Barclaycards 
failure to update his address prevented him from making repayments. And that a data 
breach had occurred as a result of correspondence being sent to a wrong address. 
Our investigator looked in to the complaint but he thought Barclaycards offer of £50 was fair. 
He said while it isnt in dispute Barclaycard made an error by not updating Mr Bs address, 
there hadnt been any charges or interest applied to his account since those in February 
2014. And as Mr B confirmed he was aware of an issue when he couldnt make a payment in 
December 2017, he thought it was reasonable to have expected him to have contacted 
either A or Barclaycard in attempt to resolve the situation. So while he considered there had been some inconvenience caused to Mr B, he explained that he hadnt suffered any financial 
detriment as a consequence due to the interest and chares being stopped. 
Mr B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs dissatisfaction with A not providing Barclaycard his correct address 
when his account was transferred back to them in December 2017. And that he wasnt 
informed of this happening or that his account was referred to R for collections and then later 
sold. But while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I dont think Barclaycard 
need to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Barclaycard accepted fault for Mr Bs address not being passed to them from A in December 
2017 and offered Mr B £50 compensation. Mr B says what happened prevented him from 
making repayments to his account and, had it not been for this, then the amount he currently 
owes would be less. So he doesnt think this is enough.
While I appreciate Mr B was unable to make his usual repayments to A, hes told us that he 
thought there was something wrong at the time as he couldnt log in to As system because 
his details werent recognised. And so, while Mr B decided to wait for A (or Barclaycard) to 
contact him, I think its reasonable to have expected him to have contacted them at the time. 
Had he done so then he wouldve been informed of the situation and that A was no longer 
responsible for collecting repayments. Ive not seen anything to show this happened but 
instead, Mr B has told us that he forgot about the account and the next contact he received, 
except for the November 2018 letter, was from R in May 2019.
Ive also taken in to account that there hasnt been any interest or charges applied to Mr Bs 
account since this error came about. So while Mr B didnt make any further payments after 
November 2017, it doesnt seem he has lost out financially. I acknowledge Mr Bs point that 
the outstanding debt would now be lower had his repayments continued but, as these 
werent made, hes had the benefit of the money during this time. I therefore dont think I can 
fairly hold Barclaycard responsible if Mr B decided to spend it rather than put it aside to pay 
for the debt.
Barclaycard wrote to Mr B in November 2018 at his correct address to inform him of a refund 
of charges that would be applied to his account. I appreciate it may have been confusing for 
Mr B to have received this contact from Barclaycard when he hadnt received anything in 
respect of the outstanding debt. But I think Barclaycard has explained why this happened 
and I dont think it changes Mr Bs awareness of having an outstanding debt that he wasnt 
making repayments towards. So, as Ive earlier explained, I think he couldve enquired about 
his account sooner  thereby allowing him to make further repayments  if he wished.
Because of whats happened it seems Barclaycard sent correspondence about Mr Bs 
account to an incorrect address. I understand Mr Bs concern about this potential data 
breach, but Ive not seen anything to show this has caused any material impact. And as Mr B 
was unaware of what happened until R contacted him, I dont think has caused him a 
significant amount of trouble and upset. I therefore think the offer of £50 compensation is 
fair.My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has made Mr B an offer of compensation of £50. I think this offer is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B £50 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman