DRN-2228430
The complaint
Mr H complains that an agent instructed by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited damaged 
his windscreen after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H told us that on Saturday, 24 August 2019 a technician came to fit a new windscreen on 
his van. He said when he asked the technician to replace the windscreen wipers, he said he 
couldnt do that. When Mr H drove the van later, he heard a noise and noted that small 
cracks in the windscreen had appeared. Mr H says he called the technician straight away 
and was told hed deal with the problem on Tuesday, 27 August 2019. 
Mr H says he fitted new windscreen wipers himself, but not until Sunday, 25 August 2019. 
Three days later a technician inspected the car. He noted that the damage was under the 
line where the wiper blade rested and that there were no rubber blades on the wipers. He 
thought the damage was caused by the impact of a windscreen wiper hitting the glass. 
Admirals engineer reviewed the images and said the damage wasnt a stress crack and  
wasnt caused by the way the windscreen was fitted. He said the impact damage could have 
been caused by a stone. The engineer noted that the wipers were spring-loaded, and that 
the strongest part of the wiper was in line with the damage. He thought the wipers metal arm 
could have been dropped onto the screen  without the rubber blade attached.
One of our investigators didnt think it was likely that Mr H would have had time to change 
the wipers on the van on 24 August 2019 if hed called the technician within an hour of the 
fitting. He noted that Mr H had said when he had the second windscreen fitted, the 
technician told him the first windscreen hadnt been fitted properly and took photos of it. 
Admiral said no photos were available and that the technician thought the damage was due 
to a wiper impact. The investigator concluded that the damage was probably caused by the 
metal wiper arm. As the wipers werent removed when the technician fitted the first 
windscreen, he thought it was more likely than not that the arm was dropped onto it then. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
The evidence shows that something hit the windscreen at the level of the windscreen wiper. 
As far as I can see, it isnt possible to say for sure what caused the damage or when it 
happened. It seems it could have been caused by a stone  and that would explain the noise 
Mr H heard. Although he thinks the technician who fitted the first new windscreen caused it, 
in my view he cant show thats the case.
Mr H says he called the technician only an hour after the screen was fitted. He says hed 
been told not to drive the vehicle until then, so hed just set off in it when he heard the noise 
and noted the cracks appearing. But I think its hard to be sure about the time that had 
elapsed. When Mr H first called us, he said he started to drive three hours after the fitting. 
Later, he told the investigator he first drove two hours after the fitting. Admirals notes show 
thats what Mr H first told its advisor as well. But another note on the file says he said he 
called the technician within an hour. Both time lapses are set out in Admirals response to 
Mr Hs complaint. So I think its fair to say that theres some confusion around the issue. 
Admirals engineer thought the metal part of the wiper could have caused the damage and 
that it may have happened when the wiper blades were being changed. On the day that the 
windscreen was fitted, the technician refused to change the wipers, so the old ones stayed in 
place. It may be that he should have removed them before fitting the new windscreen. Mr H 
says he was told by another technician thats what should have happened. But I think the 
issue is whether a spring-loaded, rubber-bladed wiper could have caused the sort of impact 
damage shown on the images.
When the second windscreen was fitted, the technician noted that the rubber blades were 
missing. He said the metal part of the wiper could have caused the damage. But when the 
first windscreen was fitted, I cant see why the rubber blades wouldnt have been in place. 
Mr H would have had to use the old wipers until he had time to replace them. Theres 
nothing to show that the rubber blades werent in place until well after the first screen was 
fitted. If they were, I think its very unlikely  even if a wiper sprang back onto the glass at 
some point during the fitting  that it could have caused the damage in question.
As Mr H is making a claim on the policy, I think its for him to show that its valid. I dont think 
hes been able to show that its more likely than not that the technician caused the damage 
whilst fitting the first new windscreen. So Im minded not to uphold his complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings, but neither Admiral nor Mr H did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart from 
them. So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman