DRN-4074128
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt provide a courtesy car 
as soon as they should have when they were repairing her car after an accident.
What happened
Mrs S has car insurance underwritten by Advantage. She made a claim after a named driver 
was involved in a road traffic accident, on 4 December 2022, and her car was damaged.
Advantage accepted the claim and asked Mrs S to take the car to one of their preferred 
repairers.
Mrs S took the car to the garage the day after the accident (5 December 2022). The garage 
said they had no courtesy cars available. 
Mrs S contacted Advantage, who put her in touch with a company they engage to provide 
courtesy cars in these circumstances. They said they didnt have a car available either. 
Advantage eventually provided a courtesy car  through a different supplier  on 15 
December 2022. Mrs S later had to switch courtesy cars back to the original supplier before 
her car was finally repaired.
Mrs S complained to Advantage. She said her policy terms showed she was entitled to a 
courtesy car. And not having one from 5 December to 15 December 2022 had been 
inconvenient and stressful. 
She said shed had to take taxis to get to the hire car premises. And at other times had to get 
lifts from friends and neighbours and pay for their fuel. She also had to take long walks with 
heavy bags to get shopping.
Advantage apologised and paid Mrs S £80 in compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs S wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. She thinks the £80 is 
insufficient compensation for the trouble and upset she was caused by Advantages failure to 
deliver the service set out in the policy terms. Shes asked whether it might be appropriate 
for Advantage to waive the excess on her claim, which amounts to £690.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. She 
thought the £80 compensation theyd already offered was fair and reasonable.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms are quite clear. Mrs S was entitled to a courtesy car whilst her car was 
being repaired, as long as she used Advantages preferred repairer - which she did.
Advantage dont dispute that. And they dont dispute that they failed to provide Mrs S with 
the service she was entitled to expect.
They then paid her £80 in compensation. I assume they did so on the basis that this was in 
line with standard insurance industry practice, which suggests that £10 per day is 
reasonable compensation for loss of use of a car. That rate corresponds with the amount the 
courts usually regard as fair in most cases.
We think paying that rate for loss of use of a car is usually fair and reasonable. Although we 
also think that if a customer could show that reasonably necessary travel in the relevant 
period had cost more, then insurers should consider paying compensation for loss of use at 
a higher rate. 
In this case, Advantage told Mrs S theyd be more than willing to consider an additional 
payment if Mrs S could provide receipts or other proof of taxi fares or other transport costs. 
Mrs S has said she didnt have keep receipts or tickets. I understand that, but I dont think in 
all the circumstances its unfair or unreasonable for Advantage to default to the £10 per day 
compensation rate in the absence of any evidence that Mrs S incurred greater travel costs 
over the period concerned.
When our investigator gave Mrs S her view on this complaint, Mrs S said the £10 per day 
rate for loss of use was too low. And she said shed been without a courtesy car for 11 days 
(5 to 15 December 2023), not eight days.
As Ive said above, the £10 rate for loss of use is the one used by the courts and by the 
insurance industry more broadly, in most cases. Its not unfair for Advantage to apply that 
rate in this case in the absence of evidence of higher travel costs for Mrs S.
The policy terms also say a courtesy car will be provided whilst the car is being repaired. If 
the car is a total loss  or stolen  a courtesy car isnt provided. Strictly then, theres no 
courtesy car whilst the car is being assessed as to whether it can be economically repaired 
or is a total loss.
I can see from the information we have that the decision to repair the car was communicated 
to Mrs S on 9 December 2022. It appears form the claim notes that the assessment by the 
garage wasnt completed until 7 December 2022, at the earliest.
So, the policy terms  strictly but reasonably applied  suggest Mrs S should have had a 
courtesy car from 7 December 2022. She got one on 15 December. So, she was without one 
- when she should have had one - for 8 days.
In summary, I cant reasonably conclude that Advantage have acted in any way unfairly 
towards Mrs S in the way they handled her claim and complaint. 
I understand that Advantage failed to deliver the service they promised in the policy terms. 
And I can fully understand Mrs Ss frustration about that and the inconvenience it caused 
her. But Advantage have compensated her fairly and reasonably for the trouble and upset 
their failures caused her.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman