DRN-1306816
 
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (administered by Health-on-Line) 
dealt with her private medical insurance claim.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs C took out private medical insurance with AXA. Unfortunately in July 2018 
she discovered she had breast cancer. Mrs C contacted AXA to let it know about her health 
and to discuss her next steps in relation to treatment.
Mrs C told AXA that shed previously suffered from breast cancer in her other breast. At this 
time AXA put a hold on accepting any claims for her while it investigated her medical history. 
AXA applied an exclusion to Mrs Cs policy for breast cancer, as it suggested the 
mammogram that led to her diagnosis was planned. Mrs C complained to AXA, as she said 
she had no plans to go for the mammogram when she took out the insurance and had been 
prompted by some information shed seen to go have the check-up.
AXA began investigating Mrs Cs complaint. During this time she was asked to provide 
detailed information on her previous medical history and she had to submit a GP report on 
more than one occasion. Mrs C was initially waiting on confirmation from AXA before going 
ahead with treatment, but decided to go ahead without approval as she didnt feel able to 
wait. The treating hospital called AXA to discuss approval for the claim and were initially told 
it wasnt covered. However when the hospital called back on the day of the surgery, in error, 
AXA said there was cover even though this hadnt yet been agreed.
When it completed its investigation AXA determined the exclusion had been incorrectly 
applied and that Mrs Cs treatment was covered. It awarded Mrs C £250 to apologise for the 
delays in confirming cover, the service provided and for the upset this situation had caused 
her. And as AXA was accepting the claim, Mrs Cs case was then passed to its cancer team 
where she was provided with a dedicated nurse.
In October 2018 a further complaint for Mrs C was logged with AXA. She needed follow-on 
surgery and the restrictions on her policy meant she wasnt fully funded for the procedure 
and surgeon that she wanted. Mrs C said she wasnt made aware she was taking out a 
Health-on-Line policy (rather than a standard AXA policy) and that this meant she had a 
reduced level of cover, such as a smaller choice of hospitals. She was also unhappy with the 
service shed received from AXA, as there was some confusion in the communication 
between her and the nurse and she felt her medical history had not been read.
AXA considered the paperwork it provided Mrs C was clear about the type of policy she had. 
It referred to the policy booklet and the Health-on-Line website which listed the hospitals 
covered under Mrs Cs specific policy (rather than covered by any AXA underwritten 
policies). It apologised for any confusion between her and the nurse, but said it was satisfied 
that the nurses follow-up email was clear and what was said was in-line with the policy 
terms.Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. She was unhappy about the overall service 
shed received from AXA and considered its paperwork misleading. She also brought a 
complaint to our service about the broker who sold her the policy, but that is being dealt with 
under a separate complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint as she considered 
the paperwork was clear and she didnt increase the award AXA had made for the delays 
and poor service. Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the paperwork AXA provided Mrs C when she took out the policy. AXA is the 
underwriter for her policy, however her insurance is administered by Health-on-Line, 
meaning shes part of a different scheme. Looking at the letters and policy documentation, 
I think this is clear. I appreciate it does contain a lot of AXA branding, but it also references 
Health-on-Line. And as AXA are involved in this relationship and take Mrs Cs premiums, 
I would expect it to be mentioned. Her welcome letter states her policy is through Health-on-
Line and sets out that this is the part of the group that will be dealing with Mrs C. And the 
front page of her personalised membership guide is Health-on-Line branded, rather than 
AXA. The website link inside it with the hospital lists is for the Health-on-Line website, not 
AXAs website.
I appreciate Mrs Cs testimony and what her understanding of the policy was. But I dont 
think AXA needed to do more to make it clear to her the type of cover she had. I think the 
documentation does provide her with the information she needed and sets out that this is a 
Health-on-Line policy.
Ive looked at the service Mrs C received from AXA to determine if the apologies and 
compensation offered are fair. I appreciate Mrs C was going through a very difficult time and 
so any delays or confusion wouldve had a bigger impact on her. And I understand that she 
needed clear information from AXA in order to decide her next steps in relation to her 
second phase of treatment. AXA has acknowledged that it couldve acted more quickly when 
Mrs C first claimed and has apologised for the confusion between her and her nurse.
Ive considered the service Mrs C received from her nurse. I can see that there was 
confusion in the conversation around which breast different surgeries were for and what the 
policy terms truly covered. It seems the main conversation about this took place over a 
three-day period by phone and email. The nurse did misunderstand what Mrs C was 
discussing and it doesnt seem she gave the full policy term, which meant Mrs C was under 
the impression she had more cover than available. But this was clarified by the nurse the 
following day, once shed picked up Mrs Cs email confirming their discussion.
I accept that this wouldve caused Mrs C distress and her expectations werent properly 
managed in relation to what was available under the policy. But considering the overall 
circumstances and the timescale in which AXA acknowledged the mistake, I think the 
apology provided is sufficient.
I understand from reading Mrs Cs complaint to our service that shes also unhappy about 
the number of different people she had to speak to before her claim was accepted (and she 
was allocated a designated nurse). And that she didnt receive call backs and wasnt able to 
speak to senior staff, despite her request to do so.
I can see that Health-on-Line are available on two of their helplines from 8am to 6pm 
Monday to Friday and on another helpline 24 hours a day. So as it offers a round the clock service, multiple individuals are necessary and unavoidable. I can see work was carried out 
on Mrs Cs case throughout the day and it seems her case was updated with detailed notes 
when she called.
I appreciate why Mrs C may have felt frustrated by having to repeat herself. But shes also 
explained the time critical nature of her situation. And her ability to discuss her policy and 
situation would likely have been more limited if she was given a single or few points of 
contact in the early stages. AXA has also acknowledged that the service couldve been 
better - including in relation to the delays and call backs. And it awarded £250 compensation 
for this, which is in the region of what I wouldve awarded. So Im not asking it to do anymore 
on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman