DRN-3964186
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limited (WUPSIL) wont 
refund transfers she made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2018, Ms M was the victim of a cruel scam.
Ms M has explained that she met an individual who told her he was an American soldier and 
asked her to help him out. Ultimately Ms M became aware that she was actually dealing with 
a scammer, who was using photographs and information from a genuine soldier.
The scammer persuaded Ms M to send him money through Western Union, initially to be 
collected in America but later to be collected in Nigeria.
Ms M asked WUPSIL to refund her for all of the transfers she made.
The transfers Ms M sent for collection in America, were done through a separate business 
entity of Western Union and have been dealt with under a separate complaint  so I cant 
consider those payments as part of this complaint.
In this case, Im only looking at the payments Ms M made in branch which were handled by 
Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limited. This is a list of those transactions:
Date Transaction Amount
17.3.2018 Payment to A £513.90
28.3.2018 Payment to A  Refund offered £186.90
6.4.2018 Payment to A £413.90
21.4.2018 Payment to A £613.90
27.4.2018 Payment to A  Refund offered £513.90
2.5.2018 Payment to A £363.90
11.5.2018 Payment to A £104.90
18.5.2018 Payment to A £104.90
25.5.2018 Payment to A £104.90
1.6.2018 Payment to A  Refund offered £136.90
Total loss £3,058.00
When Ms M raised her fraud claim with WUPSIL, they declined to refund her saying theyd 
followed their procedures correctly. WUPSIL also explained that Ms M had signed to say she 
was provided with a fraud warning document prior to sending each payment.
As she wasnt happy with WUPSILs response, Ms M brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded there were any indications that Ms M was being scammed at the time she made 
the payments, so didnt think WUPSIL shouldve intervened before following Ms Ms 
payment requests.
However, WUPSIL told us they would refund Ms M for three of the payments she made  as 
indicated in the table above. WUPSIL said they made the offer because they couldnt 
provide collection receipts for those payments.
I wrote to Ms M to explain the offer and set out the information she needed to provide to 
WUPSIL in order for them to refund her. However, we havent received a response from Ms 
M. So, Ive reviewed the case in order to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I cant fairly ask WUPSIL to refund Ms M. I realise 
that Ms M is going to be disappointed, as she fell victim to a particularly cruel scam.
But, in order for me to recommend that WUPSIL should refund these payments, I need to be 
satisfied that they shouldve had concerns at the time Ms M was making the payments that 
she might be the victim of a scam. This cant be decided using hindsight, so the fact that we 
know Ms M was the victim of a scam, isnt enough for me to require them to refund her.
 
So Ive considered the size of the payments, the nature of the payments and the frequency 
of the payments. Also, Ive taken into consideration that WUPSIL is primarily used for 
sending funds overseas, often to family or friends. This can be through one-off large 
payments or regular weekly payments  all depending on the senders needs. So WUPSILs 
service is used quite differently than how a bank account may be used.
And, in this case, Im not satisfied that the payments Ms M made shouldve concerned 
WUPSIL that Ms M might be the victim of a scam. I say this because the payments arent 
sufficiently large or made in quick succession, whereby I think they shouldve stood out. 
I realise that this is a lot of money for Ms M to lose, but I have to take into account the type 
of transactions that WUPSIL would normally see. And, unfortunately, I cant fairly ask 
WUPSIL to refund Ms M in these circumstances.
Ms M can still accept WUPSILs offer to refund three of the payments, by providing the 
information and documentation theyve requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Western Union Payment 
Services Ireland Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman