DRN-4053126
The complaint
Ms M, who is represented by a third party, has complained that Everyday Lending Limited, 
trading as George Banco.com  (George Banco) unfairly accepted her as a guarantor on a 
guarantor loan without carrying out sufficient checks. 
What happened
Ms M became the guarantor on a loan of £10,000 provided to the borrower, a friend, in 
September 2019. The loan was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £394.56. The total amount to be 
repaid was £23,674.80.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that George Banco hadnt
carried out proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than
not have shown George Banco that Ms M would not have been able to sustainably repay the
loan in the event she had to. 
As George Banco has disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice related to guarantor loans - on
our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations in place when George Banco lent to the borrower required it to
also carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Ms M could afford to 
repay this loan in a sustainable manner as her guarantor. The guarantee and indemnity 
agreement between Ms M and the borrower sets out Ms Ms liability as guarantor to pay the 
loan if required to do so. 
The borrower isnt a party to this complaint. I see that after our investigator gave her view on 
the complaint, George Banco sent details of the credit checks it carried out for the borrower. 
But given that I am looking at the question of whether it was fair and reasonable for Ms M to 
be accepted as a guarantor, it is outside the scope of this decision for me to make any 
finding on merits in relation to the borrower. Thats because as well as carrying out 
reasonable checks to establish that the borrower could afford to make the repayments, 
George Banco also needed to carry out similar enquiries into Ms Ms circumstances to check 
that shed be able to afford to sustainably make the payments to this loan in the event the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement needed to be relied on. 
The information George Banco has provided shows it carried out a credit check about
Ms M before this loan was provided. Based on that and using statistical data, it assessed 
whether Ms M would be able to repay the loan if required to do so. The results of these 
checks showed that Ms M was already significantly indebted. She owed around £69,000 by 
way of an ongoing mortgage, was repaying an unsecured loan on which she owed just over 
£11,000 and owed around £4,000 on a credit card with a £6,000 credit limit. George Bancos 
checks indicated she wasnt using her bank overdraft but this was not the case.  
George Banco says that Ms M was managing her credit well. Ive seen that Ms M had been 
over her credit card limit for a period of just over 2  years between early 2014 and late 
2016. I accept this was around 3 years earlier and is therefore historical. But it strongly 
suggests that were she to become over-indebted once again, it would not be easy for Ms M 
to get herself out of financial difficulty. So, with the additional burden of guaranteeing the 
borrowers loan for what could be as long as five years, I think this and the debt issues Ive 
mentioned above showed likely issues about Ms Ms ability to repay. I think that ought to 
have prompted George Banco to carry out further enquiries before making a decision about 
accepting Ms M as a guarantor, in order to ensure that its checks had been both reasonable 
and proportionate. Also, I dont consider that making regular payments on previous credit is 
necessarily enough to show that a prospective guarantor will be able to repay a loan for 
someone else.
Our adjudicator asked Ms M to provide us with copies of her bank statements leading up to 
the agreement. Providing these to George Banco at the time was one way it could have 
found out more about Ms Ms committed expenditure each month aside from her existing 
credit, such as living costs. The statements Ive seen show that Ms M was making 
near-constant use of her overdraft, at such a level that her income was only able to put her 
into credit for around ten days each month, before taking her up to around £1,300 of 
overdraft just before being paid. I think this once again underpins Ms Ms having financial 
circumstances that strongly suggested that she wouldnt have sufficient disposable income 
available to her each month so that she could sustainably afford the loan repayments, were 
she to be called upon to meet them. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ive seen about Ms Ms financial situation at the time 
she agreed to become a guarantor. I think this would have been apparent to George Banco 
had it carried out better checks. Had it done so, it would likely have realised that Ms M 
simply wasnt in a position to act as a guarantor on this loan. As this is the case, I think that 
George Bancos failure to properly look into Ms Ms circumstances meant that it unfairly 
accepted her as the guarantor for this loan.
My understanding is that Ms M is still being expected to make payments to a loan that she 
shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor on. Im therefore satisfied that she has lost out 
as a result of what George Banco did wrong. And so George Banco needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right  what George Banco needs to do
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Ms Ms complaint for George Banco to put things right by:
releasing Ms M from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement
and then terminating it;
refunding any loan payments that Ms M may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date theywere paid by Ms M, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Ms Ms credit file as a result of this loan;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. 
George Banco must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, 
trading as George Banco.com, should put things right for Ms M in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman