DRN-2906938
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of his account closure and 
changing his address without his knowledge. 
What happened
Mr M says he visited a Barclays branch to find out the steps he needed to take to close a 
joint account he held with his now ex-wife. He says he was told both he and his ex-wife 
would need to give permission to close the account. Mr M says, despite this, Barclays closed 
the account following a phone call from his ex-wife. Mr M says Barclays website doesnt 
state that only one party is required to close a joint account  and he says this option was 
never discussed with him. Mr M says Barclays sent him a refund cheque for his credit card 
but when he tried to deposit the cheque, it bounced. Mr M says he was told by Barclays that 
there was a problem with all cheques they had issued over a specified period of time. Mr M 
says, despite chasing, Barclays havent sent him a replacement cheque. 
Mr M says his ex-wife changed her contact details with Barclays but they sent a letter to her 
new address in Mr Ms name. He says this led to his ex-wifes solicitor sending him 
threatening letters accusing him of stalking. Mr M says Barclays had incorrectly updated the 
joint account details to hold his name but his ex-wifes new address. 
  
Barclays responded to Mr Ms complaint and accepted they had let Mr M down. They said 
they had liaised with an internal team regarding the discrepancy in their internal process and 
what is showing on their website for customers who want to close a joint account. They 
apologised and offered £150 compensation which they said Mr M had declined. Mr M 
remained unhappy as he felt Barclays havent updated their website to show that only one 
party is required to close a joint account over the phone. And, he feels Barclays havent put 
right the issue for all customers who were impacted by their cheque bouncing.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. She thought the offer of £150 was reasonable 
for the issues identified by Barclays. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mr M will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Account closure 
System notes provided by Barclays show they closed the joint account in October 2020. 
Barclays say either party can request an account closure provided they havent been notified 
of a dispute. Barclays also say, at the time of closure, the account balance was nil. They say 
there was nothing recorded on their system to show there was a joint account dispute. The 
system notes show Barclays closed the joint account following a phone call from Mr Ms ex-
wife. And, complaint notes provided by Barclays say only one party needed to authorise this 
as the account had a nil balance and there was no evidence of Barclays being aware of a 
dispute. On the complaint notes, Barclays note there hasnt been an error by them in respect 
of this part of the complaint. 
Barclays have referred to their website so Ive looked at the information on there. This shows 
various way of closing an account and only the postal option requests signatures for both 
parties. The phone option doesnt specify both parties need to provide consent for the 
account to be closed. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to close the joint 
account following Mr Ms ex-wifes phone call.  
I note Mr M is worried that someone else may have impersonated him in order to close the 
account by phone. But I dont think thats happened here. The complaint notes say the call 
Mr Ms ex-wife made wasnt recorded so Barclays couldnt listen to the call. So, Ive looked 
at the other information I do have. Firstly, the information Ive seen shows only one party is 
required to close a joint account by phone. And, given those instructions were provided by      
Mr Ms ex-wife, I dont think Barclays wouldve asked to speak with Mr M to seek his 
consent. Secondly, the complaint notes show Barclays checked the audit and could see only 
one interaction party was identified and they had not received any document with Mr Ms 
signature on. Barclays say this means that Mr M was not impersonated on the call or in 
writing to close the account. 
I can see Mr M says he did make Barclays aware of there being a dispute. The website 
says, If theres a dispute between you and the other person, cancel the joint account 
mandate straight away so neither of you can use the account until youve reached a 
settlement. Barclays say, once notified of an account dispute it would be normal practice to 
cancel all payment facilities on an account, including Direct Debits and debit cards. The 
signing mandate would be changed so that any instructions would need to be authorised by 
both parties. 
Barclays say, during the complaint investigation, they identified Mr M had attended a branch 
previously. The complaint notes show Barclays spoke with the staff member who served Mr 
M but due to the length of time which had passed, they werent able to recall details of the 
visit. The notes say Barclays provided feedback to the staff member about not adding a 
dispute to the account. Barclays say, as Mr M continued to make payments from the account 
it was evident Barclays did not amend the records to reflect a dispute or alter the mandate to 
show both parties had to authorise payments. Given Barclays record of Mr M visiting a 
branch, and Mr Ms own testimony, I think its more likely than not Mr M did discuss how he 
could go about closing the joint account. Theres no evidence that Mr M specifically 
mentioned a dispute during this visit but, on the balance of probabilities, I think its more 
likely than not the discussion wouldve led to Mr Ms reasons for wanting to close the 
account. And, at this point, I believe Mr Ms testimony that he mentioned there being a 
dispute. Im further persuaded this is the case as Barclays felt it was appropriate to give 
feedback to the staff member who served Mr M. I cant see however there has been a wider 
impact on Mr M by Barclays not registering a dispute at this time. Mr M hasnt said payments 
were made without his authority or that the signing mandate not being changed led to his ex-
wife making payments/withdrawals in circumstances where he wouldnt have given his 
consent.  
The notes show Barclays do acknowledge though there is a discrepancy on their website 
around closing accounts. They note the section of their website which contains details of joint accounts doesnt mention it can be closed over the phone whereas it does say this in 
another page of their website. I can see Mr M wants our service to tell Barclays to update 
their website. We dont have the power to direct a business to make changes to their 
processes or tell them what should be included on their website. The complaint notes show 
Barclays sent an email to an internal team about this discrepancy. So, I think Barclays have 
taken reasonable steps to try and put this right.       
Change of address 
Barclays say, they can add addresses at a customer or account level. They say when Mr Ms 
ex-wife amended her own residential address, the account statement address was also 
amended for the joint account. The statements on the joint account had previously been 
addressed solely to Mr M at his own address, but following the address amendment, the 
statement was still in Mr Ms name but sent to the amended address. I note Mr M is 
concerned about whether the address for his personal account was also amended but I cant 
see that has been the case. The complaint notes show Barclays couldnt see any evidence 
of Mr Ms residential address changing on his personal account. I have seen a number of 
letters sent by Barclays to Mr M which relate to his personal account and all of those letters 
were sent to his correct address. And, this includes letters which were sent to Mr M after the 
address change took place. So, Im satisfied the address for his personal account hasnt 
been amended.
I understand Mr M is concerned the statement which was in his name but sent to his ex-
wifes address caused problems in his divorce. He says it led to additional solicitors costs as 
the channels of communication between him and his ex-wife completely broke down and 
meant all communication had to go through their solicitors. I cant say there has been an 
error here as, even before the address change, all statements were in Mr Ms sole name and 
sent to his correct address. Mr Ms ex-wife changed her residential address and this appears 
to have then amended the address for the joint account  and changed where the 
statements should be sent. Mr Ms ex-wife was still named on the joint account at this point 
so it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to change the address on the joint account. And, I 
cant see there was any information at this point which wouldve suggested to Barclays that 
this wasnt the address Mr M wanted the joint account statement in his name to be sent. So, 
I do sympathise with Mr M if problems developed in his divorce proceedings which led to an 
increased level of involvement from his and his ex-wifes solicitors but I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for this.   
Bounced cheque 
I can see Barclays write to Mr M to say a cheque which he had deposited for £10.74 has 
bounced. This cheque represented the balance Mr M held on his credit card account. I can 
see Barclays offer to pay this sum into Mr Ms current account but he asks for the issue to be 
investigated. I can see from emails between Barclays and the credit card company, it was 
established the error was due to an internal issue with the credit card provider. I can see 
Barclays have arranged for a replacement cheque to be sent and this has been cashed by 
Mr M. I understand this will have been frustrating for Mr M but I cant say this has been an 
error by Barclays. I think Barclays did take reasonable steps to try and get things sorted for 
Mr M in relation to the bounced cheque.    
I can see Barclays accept the service Mr M received was not to the high standard he should 
expect. And in recognition of the distress and inconvenience they offered £150 
compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decisionBarclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 compensation to Mr M to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr M £150, if they havent done so 
already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman