DRN-3604889
The complaint
Mr C complains about a car he acquired using finance provided by PSA Finance UK Limited. 
He says he was told the car was brand new, but he doesnt believe it was.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr C took a conditional sale agreement with PSA to acquire a car. He says 
he was told the car was brand new.
Mr C explained when he was driving the car home, he realised it had around 230 miles on 
the odometer. He says this means the car wasnt new, so he returned the car to the dealer. 
Later, Mr C complained to PSA. And he then referred the complaint to our service. 
PSA initially said the complaint was outside of our jurisdiction. Our investigator issued an 
opinion explaining the same thing.
On further discussion, we agreed the complaint was in our jurisdiction, and PSA also agreed 
this was the case.
Our investigator then issued another opinion, explaining she didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She said, in summary, that it wasnt unreasonable for the car to have 
delivery miles on it when it was supplied. She said she thought the car was new and so 
PSA didnt need to take any action.
Mr C was unhappy with this. He said, in summary, that the car wasnt worth what he had 
paid for it, as it wasnt new.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr C has made various complaints about the dealer, cars supplied to him and PSA. In this 
decision, I am only considering the specific complaint point raised about this cars mileage 
when it was supplied.
Mr C complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Mr Cs complaint about PSA.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant laws, regulations 
and guidance. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This 
explains that under a contract to supply goods, the contract is to be treated as including a 
term that the goods will match the description. 
It doesnt seem in dispute here that the car supplied to Mr C was described as new. But, its 
worth me commenting briefly here that Im satisfied this was the case. I say this as, along 
with what Mr C says he was told, the car is noted as new on the conditional sale 
agreement and on the New Vehicle Invoice.
So, I think the crux of this complaint, and what I need to consider here, is whether PSA 
supplied Mr C with a new car or not.
Mr C says that the car wasnt new because it had around 230 miles on the odometer when 
he acquired it. Ive thought very carefully about this. But, I dont agree with Mr C here. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive considered, under the specific circumstances of this complaint, what I think new would 
mean here. Im satisfied a new car would be one where there were no previous owners and 
the car only had delivery miles recorded. This second point is important, as I dont think it 
was reasonable to expect the car to show a mileage of zero when it was supplied. 
A new car may show mileage from being transported - both from the manufacturer to the 
dealer and from one branch of the dealer to another. And it could show mileage from being 
tested. 
Ive considered here whether around 230 miles could be considered delivery mileage. And, 
while I accept this might be higher than normal, I still think this is a reasonable amount, in 
this specific case, to be classed as delivery mileage. 
It follows, given Ive seen no evidence that Mr C wasnt the cars first keeper, that Im 
satisfied the car supplied to Mr C was new. And so I dont think the term set out in the CRA 
and explained above has been breached.
I have also considered whether the car was misrepresented to Mr C. That is, whether a false 
statement of fact was made about the car that convinced him to enter into the agreement 
when he otherwise wouldnt have. But, Ive already explained above why I dont think calling 
the car new would be a false statement of fact. And I havent seen any evidence to show 
Mr C was told the car would have a lower mileage than it did. So, I dont think the car was 
misrepresented to him.
Finally, Ive seen no evidence to back up Mr Cs claims that the car was worth less because 
it was showing a mileage of 230, as opposed to a lower delivery mileage.
I want to reassure Mr C that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said about this 
specific complaint. But, having done so, I dont think it should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
John BowerOmbudsman