DRN-2294823
The complaint
Mr A complained about the service he received while trying to apply for a new account at 
Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr A and his wife had existing ISAs with Nationwide, and they wanted to change them for 
new ones. Mr A collected paper applications from the branch. He was told that he and his 
wife would each need to be present for their respective applications to be completed. 
When Mr A arrived at the branch with his wife, he was told only one application could be 
processed at any one time, although there was more than one person staffing the counters, 
and one of these was free for at least some of this time. Mr A objected to this. He said that 
the staff member was rude to him, and he accepted he was rude back. Mr A wanted to 
complain about the service he received. 
Nationwide said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It had only three members of 
staff available to assist in the branch that day. One was on the door, two others were on the 
counter. Nationwide said it couldnt tie up both counters with applications, so it said only one 
member of staff could process these at any one time. 
Nationwide said that Mr A had become rude and aggressive. After he swore at the branch 
manager, she told him she wouldnt process the applications that day. Nationwide said it had 
since written to Mr A to ask him to remain calm in his interactions with staff. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Nationwide was 
generally free to decide how it conducts its business and manages its resources. He didnt 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide only to have one staff member deal with 
applications. 
Our investigator said that hed also considered the altercation between Mr A and branch 
staff. He explained that it was hard for him to say exactly what was said, because he wasnt 
there. But looking at the information available, he could see why Nationwide had objected to 
Mr As behaviour. Mr A had confirmed he had been rude to branch staff. So Nationwide 
wasnt wrong to decide not to process Mr As application on that particular day, and return 
the forms to him. 
Mr A disagreed. He said that Nationwide did not use an adequate system to deal with 
customers outside the branch. And he remembered the staffing differently. He said that 
the branch had three cashiers and two more people, where it usually only has two cashiers. 
He said hed waited about 45 minutes in total and his application still wasnt finished, 
because the cashier didnt know what to do. It was getting later, and close to when the 
branch was closing. 
Mr A said he was subjected to an arrogant, rude, poor mannered member of staff which 
made him feel very distressed. He said thats why he reacted. And he said the staff member 
threw his application at him, because hed told her that Nationwides procedure was flawed. 
Mr A wanted us to watch the CCTV footage from the branch. He also said that both he and 
his wife had lost money because they couldnt change their accounts, and Nationwide didnt 
tell them how they could now process the ISA applications during the complaint procedure.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said it was unfortunate that Mr A had to wait
but that didnt mean Nationwide had done something wrong. And it was still up to Nationwide 
how it used its available staff. 
Our investigator said he didnt think CCTV footage would help, but he did then ask for it. 
Nationwide said it didnt have it any longer. Our investigator said Mr A could still go ahead 
with his application if he wanted to. He could get in touch with Nationwide to do that.
Mr A wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this case. 
Id like to start by saying that it is up to Nationwide how it allocates its staff. So if it prefers to 
keep one member of staff free to deal with quicker queries and transactions, I wouldnt say it 
was wrong to do that. 
I would understand Mr A being frustrated at waiting, if there was another cashier who wasnt 
busy all the time. 
But I can also understand that Nationwide might not want to keep some customers waiting, 
particularly if people are likely to be depositing cash and, at the moment, might then have to 
wait with that cash on the street. So I dont think Nationwide was wrong to organise its 
branch in the way it did.
Im sorry that Im not able to do as Mr A has asked, to watch the CCTV from the branch. But 
I think, as our investigator said, that its unlikely to have helped a great deal in this case. 
Thats because much of what Mr A says depends on what was said at the time, and CCTV 
doesnt generally record that. My previous experience has also been that its very difficult to 
read nuance into the gestures or body language that I can see on CCTV. So I think that any 
CCTV would have been unlikely to be conclusive on who was rude first. 
I would expect that Mr A found this experience frustrating, and hes accepted that he was 
rude to staff. In the light of that, I dont think it was wrong for Nationwide to decide that it 
would be better if Mr A returned another day. 
I know that Nationwide didnt set out how Mr A could go ahead with his application now, but I 
think thats because theres no question of Mr A not being welcome back at the branch. Hes 
free to return, and complete his application. Our service does see incidents where people 
whove been asked not to complete transactions are also asked not to return to a branch, but thats not the case here. Nationwides internal notes record just how out of character the 
branch manager felt it was for Mr A to get upset with staff. 
I dont think that this complaint should be upheld, because I think that Nationwides 
responses on this occasion were reasonable ones. But I do hope that both sides are able to 
put this incident behind them, and return to their previous cordial working relationship. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman