DRN-2339226
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Bank of Scotland PLC (BoS) has used the 
compensation it offered to settle his complaint about the mis-sale of payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies taken out alongside three loans.
I can see that Mr C also expressed his dissatisfaction with a BoS credit card and a share 
account. I wish to make clear that the complaint passed to me relates to the PPI sold 
alongside the chain of loans set out below. Im not considering a complaint about the credit 
card or the share account in this decision. 
When PPI was sold to Mr C, BoS was trading as Halifax. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr C took out three loans with Halifax between October 2000 and November 2004. 
With each loan, he also took out a single premium PPI policy. That means he had to borrow 
extra on top of each loan to pay for the PPI. The borrowing is set out as follows: 
Loan Date opened Date repaid
1 24 October 2000 31 October 2002
2 30 October 2002 9 November 
2004
3 5 November 
2004Included in 
bankruptcy 
proceedings 
This was a chain of loans. What that means is that some of Loan 2 was used to repay (or 
refinance) Loan 1. Similarly, some of Loan 3 was used to repay (or refinance) the 
outstanding balance of Loan 2. 
In 2005, Mr C became ill and he made a PPI claim to cover his Loan 3 repayments. 
On 13 July 2005, Halifax refused Mr Cs claim because it said he already had the same 
medical condition when he applied for the PPI cover in 2004. Claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions were excluded under the policy.  
I can see that Mr C began to experience some financial difficulties. From the information in 
front of me, it appears he became insolvent and a bankruptcy order was made on or around 
13 October 2005.   
In 2008, Mr C made a PPI complaint and Halifax agreed to pay compensation in respect of 
Loan 2 only. It paid £2070.85 directly to Mr C by cheque. In 2019, Mr C made another 
complaint and the two further loans in the chain with PPI were identified. Halifax agreed to 
uphold the complaint and offered to pay compensation of £1,237.04 for the PPI in respect of 
Loan 1 and £4,576.70 for Loan 3. However, Halifax said it would pay the compensation in 
respect of Loans 1 and 3 to the Official Receiver (OR) who had expressed an interest in the 
compensation. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator said what Halifax had done was 
fair. Mr C didnt agree and made several detailed submissions. Although I have not referred 
to everything Mr C told us, I have considered all the arguments he raised. In very brief 
summary, he said: 
In refusing his 2005 PPI claim, Halifax caused him to become bankrupt;  
He did not understand the terms of the PPI when he took the policy out and Halifax 
did not make those terms clear; 
Compensation should not have been paid to the OR to benefit Halifax when Halifax 
had caused his insolvency; 
Halifax had directly paid compensation to directly to Mr C in 2008 for Loan 2 and so 
the compensation for Loans 1 and 3 calculated in 2019 should also be paid directly to 
him. 
Upon receipt of Mr Cs comments, our adjudicator made some further enquiries of Halifax. 
In particular, he queried why the 2008 compensation was paid directly to Mr C. Halifax said 
that it would have been its process to check for bankruptcy at that time. However, it appears 
an error was made and compensation was paid to Mr C when it should not have been. 
As Mr C is not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C has put in considerable time and effort into pursuing his complaint. His 
strength of feeling is abundantly clear. I want to assure him that I have fully considered his 
arguments and submissions. I am very sorry to disappoint Mr C, but after that careful 
consideration, Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mis-sold PPI
Mr C raised several concerns about the way PPI was sold to him. Notably, he says the 
policies terms and conditions were not made clear to him and in any event, he did not agree 
to those terms. He also said that PPI was added to the loans and premiums taken from his 
bank account without his knowledge. 
I need to make absolutely clear that Halifax accepts PPI shouldnt have been sold to Mr C  
to put it another way, Halifax accepts that PPI was mis-sold and it has agreed to pay 
compensation for those mis-sales. 
When he first brought this complaint to this service Mr C said, PPI was taken from my bank 
account without my knowledge for insurances which I did not know about. The PPI on these 
loans was paid for by a single premium that Mr C borrowed by adding the cost of the policies 
to his loans. So the PPI was paid for as part of the monthly payments he made towards his 
loans, not by separate payment from his bank account. 
I appreciate that what Mr C told us about not knowing he had a PPI policy in respect of 
Loans 1 and 3 is what he honestly remembers from the relevant time. I also appreciate it is 
difficult to recall what happened over 15 years ago, which is when the cover was sold. 
But Mr C must have known that he had PPI in respect of Loan 3 as he tried to make a claim 
on the policy covering that loan in 2005.Ive thought about what Mr C said about not agreeing to the terms and conditions of the 
cover, but any insurance product has terms and conditions that apply to it. For PPI, the 
terms and conditions are standard conditions and they cannot be personalised to the 
insurance as Mr C suggests should have happened. The fact that he may not have been 
made fully aware of the terms and conditions when he took out the policy means, as I have 
already indicated, that the policy was most likely mis-sold. 
It has been agreed by Halifax that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr C and that is the correct 
outcome where a consumer is not clearly informed of the full terms and conditions when 
those terms and conditions may affect a consumer and also have affected his decision to 
take out the policy. 
Did Halifax fairly calculate Mr Cs compensation? 
When a business has mis-sold PPI, it must put things right by putting the consumer, as far 
as possible, in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out the PPI. 
This means the business should calculate how much was paid in premiums and interest for 
the costs of the PPI and pay this as part of the compensation for the mis-sale. Also, if the 
consumer was out of pocket for any time, then the business should also pay some 
compensatory interest. As set out above, in this decision I am considering whether Halifax 
fairly compensated Mr C for mis-selling PPI. 
In respect of Loan 2, Halifax made a payment in 2008 as compensation for one of the 
policies Mr C had, that related to the second loan in the chain. This payment of £2,070.85 
refunded all the costs Mr C paid for this particular PPI policy and also paid some 
compensatory interest. 
In respect of Loans 1 and 3, Halifax has included in the compensation everything that Mr C 
paid for the PPI policies with both loans, including the interest caused by the premiums 
being added to his loan amount. It has also included some compensatory interest. For Loan 
1, the compensation is £1,237.04 and for Loan 3, the compensation is £4,576.70.
On balance, Im satisfied Halifax fairly calculated the compensation in this case. 
What was the payment in 2008 for? 
In his complaint, Mr C indicated that he believed the 2008 payment was made to him 
because Halifax accepted it should not have rejected his 2005 claim. Again, I accept that 
what Mr C told us is what he genuinely believes, but I dont think what he told us on that 
point is correct. 
I say this because the compensation Halifax paid to Mr C was in respect of Loan 2, which 
was repaid in November 2004. The claim Mr C made in 2005 was in respect of Loan 3. So 
as Mr C had not made a claim in respect of Loan 2, Halifax couldnt have compensated him 
for a failed claim for that loan. 
As I said above, when Halifax calculated the compensation in 2008, it refunded everything 
Mr C paid for the policy (including interest) and also paid compensatory interest. This is how 
I would expect it to calculate compensation for mis-sold PPI. On balance, Im satisfied this 
payment was for mis-sold PPI and not in consequence of the rejected claim in 2005. 
Did Halifax cause Mr Cs bankruptcy by failing to honour his claim? I do very much appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling in this regard. I dont underestimate how 
difficult it must have been for him to try and manage bankruptcy proceedings at the same 
time as recovering from a serious illness. Mr C strongly feels that had his PPI claim been 
paid at that time, he wouldnt have been made bankrupt. 
Our adjudicator considered whether PPI had caused Mr C to become insolvent. Mr C took 
issue with that and said our adjudicator misunderstood the nature of his complaint. He said 
his complaint was that he would not have gone bankrupt if Halifax had paid his 2005 claim 
and so that is what I have looked at here. 
From the correspondence before me provided by Mr C, I can see Halifax rejected his claim 
because he had a pre-existing medical condition. Looking at what Mr C says, he doesnt 
appear to dispute that he did have a medical condition when he took the PPI out in 2004. 
Instead, Mr Cs argument seems to be that he did not agree to the terms and conditions 
about medical conditions and so they shouldnt have been applied to his case. 
Ive already set out above that the terms and conditions in respect of a PPI policy are 
standard conditions. And when Halifax sold this cover, it did not have discretion to disapply 
or amend the terms that did not apply to Mr C or that he did not agree with. 
Similarly, when Mr C made a claim in 2005, Halifax did not have discretion to disapply the 
exclusions around medical conditions. Once it found he had a pre-existing medical condition, 
it had to refuse the claim. The PPI should not have been sold to Mr C in the first place (i.e. it 
was mis-sold) because of his medical condition and compensation has been calculated 
because of that. But there was no provision within the policy allowing Halifax to pay the claim 
for his pre-existing medical condition. And if he had never taken out the PPI he would still not 
have been able to make a claim, so he would still have been unable to make his loan 
repayments when he took ill. 
On balance, I cant say that Halifax caused Mr Cs insolvency by mis-selling PPI to him or in 
the manner in which it handled his 2005 claim. 
Paying compensation to the OR 
Mr C does not agree that Halifax should pay the compensation in respect of Loans 1 and 3 
to the OR. 
As set out above, Mr C entered into bankruptcy in 2005. The OR has confirmed that it has 
an interest in the PPI compensation as this is deemed an asset of Mr Cs estate. 
When someone is made bankrupt the OR pulls together all the debts they have and also any 
assets they have. A proportion of the debts outstanding is then paid to each creditor from the 
assets available. This does not pay the full amount of the debts owing but usually a small 
proportion of the debts. Assets of the estate are determined by the OR and in effect are any 
goods or funds that the consumer had at the time of the bankruptcy. 
In this case, by 2005 when the bankruptcy order was made, Mr C had already taken out the 
three PPI policies for his three loans and therefore any compensation for the mis-sale of PPI 
is deemed an asset of the estate. The OR has indicated that they do consider the 
compensation for the mis-sold polices as assets of Mr Cs estate and therefore Halifax is 
obliged by law to pay the compensation to the OR. 
If Mr C has any concerns about the OR then he would need to take  thisup with the OR. The 
business, here Halifax, has to comply with what the OR indicates. And that is what Halifax 
has done.I appreciate Mr C argues that if Halifax paid the compensation in respect of Loan 2 directly to 
him, it should also pay him the compensation in respect of Loans 1 and 3. Mr C is quite right 
to say that the compensation was paid to him in 2008 after he had entered bankruptcy and 
he cannot see the difference in circumstances between 2008 and now. 
In light of what Ive said above, I think the 2008 compensation in respect of Loan 2 probably 
should have been paid to the OR. Halifax told our adjudicator that in 2008, it would have 
been its process to check for bankruptcy before issuing compensation. It said it probably 
made an error in missing Mr Cs insolvency. I think that is most likely what happened and 
Mr C was paid by mistake. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr C, but after giving very careful thought to all of 
the issues he raised, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint because Bank of Scotland 
Plcs offer and what it has done with the compensation is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman