DRN-4103840
The complaint
Mr E and his father Mr E(2) have complained about West Bay Insurance Plcs decision to 
reject a claim they made under their home and buildings insurance policy for damage 
caused by an escape of water. 
As Mr E is the main complainant, for ease Ive referred to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr E and Mr E(2) bought a home insurance policy with West Bay in September 2022. A 
couple of weeks later they made a claim for an escape of water. 
West Bay declined their claim as they said the damage had been ongoing for a long period 
of time, and before the policy started. 
Mr E complained to West Bay, but it said its decision was correct. So Mr E asked us to look 
at their complaint. 
Our Investigator thought West Bay had reasonably shown its decision not to meet the claim 
was fair and in line with the policy. 
Mr E didnt agree and want an ombudsman to decide. In summary he believes West Bay 
have made assumptions without evidence that the damage was ongoing for some time and 
damage they couldnt have reasonably been aware of before they made their claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay, like most insurers, provides cover for specific insured events like flood, fire, or 
storm. Insured events are events that happen suddenly and unexpectedly. Damage caused 
by wear and tear, or gradually over a period of time, are not covered under standard 
insurance policies. It is for a customer to prove their claim. 
A plumber identified that the cause of the escape of water was from a leaking pipe behind 
the shower in a bathroom. West Bay instructed an assessor to attend Mr Es home in 
October 2022. Photos provided by the assessor of the home have been taken after 
wallpaper from the lounge which was affected by the water damage had been removed. 
These photos show extensive damp damage to the walls, along with elevated moisture level 
readings and the assessors description of the damage. This is the evidence West Bay relied 
on in deciding to decline the claim. Key comments from the assessor include that laminate 
flooring was swollen and cupped, that there was clear evidence of failed sealant and grout 
and mould. The assessor found the moisture level readings in the shower room were at 
saturation point continuing up to the border tiles and the shower cubicle. The assessor 
couldnt find evidence of repairs undertaken to fix a leak behind the shower wall. 
Photos provided by Mr E of the living room before the leak occurred and before the policy 
started -  show the wallpaper to be bubbling and peeled away - which can be an indicator of 
damp behind it. While Mr E says there can be other reasons for wallpaper bubbling, I dont 
think the photos support their claim. 
Ive reviewed the Environmental Housing report provided by Mr E following an inspectors 
attendance in December 2022. This doesnt persuade me that West Bays decision to reject 
the claim was unreasonable. The Inspector reported that he could find no evidence of long 
standing damp from what he could see. He reported that there had been a humidifier in the 
downstairs room since late October 2022.
So - taking everything into account - I think West Bays decision to reject the claim for an 
escape of water as having been ongoing for longer than the policy duration was a 
reasonable one to take. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman