DRN-3173725
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the handling of her personal injury claim by solicitors appointed by 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) under her legal expenses insurance policy. 
Mrs L is represented in her complaint but, for ease, I refer to Mrs L throughout.
What happened
Mrs L is disabled and leases a vehicle under a scheme with a company Ill call company M. 
RSA are the underwriters who provide legal expenses insurance cover to Mrs L in 
connection with that scheme.
In July 2017 Mrs L was involved in a road traffic accident. RSA appointed one of their panel 
solicitors to act on Mrs Ls behalf to pursue her personal injury claim. 
The legal claim was settled in around September 2020, but Mrs L was unhappy with the 
damages she received. She felt shed been put under pressure to accept less than she was 
entitled to because of poor handling by the solicitors and the inadequate medical evidence 
theyd obtained. She said she wasnt properly compensated for the injuries she sustained or 
the additional payments she now has to make for an automatic car as a result of her injuries.
Mrs L complained to RSA in December 2020. They passed her complaint on to the solicitors. 
The solicitors didnt uphold the complaint and both they and RSA told Mrs L she could make 
a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman if she wanted to take things further. 
Mrs L thought RSA were responsible for the actions of the solicitors and the experts theyd 
appointed. So, she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator explained we 
couldnt consider a complaint about the solicitors. She said the legal expenses insurance 
cover RSA provided included appointing a legal representative and paying reasonable legal 
costs, but it didnt extend to the service the solicitors provided. 
Since Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators view, her complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ls health issues and the impact her accident and the stress of the 
legal claim have had on her. I acknowledge its also affected her family, but I can only 
consider whats happened to Mrs L. Thats because, as the person whose legal expenses 
were being covered under the insurance policy for her personal injury claim, only she was 
RSAs customer for the purposes of this complaint. 
Mrs Ls complaint is mainly about the handling of the legal claim and the advice the solicitors 
gave about settling it. RSA are the legal expenses insurers, not the legal expert. My role is to 
consider RSAs handling of the insurance claim in light of the policy terms to see if they have 
met their obligations reasonably and treated Mrs L fairly.
I cant look at the solicitors actions or the quality of the advice they gave. The remit of this 
service is to look into complaints by customers about financial businesses, not legal service 
providers. We dont have the power to consider complaints about solicitors. If Mrs L wants to 
take her complaint about the legal professionals involved in her claim further, shell need to 
go to the Legal Ombudsman as our investigator explained.
This service can only consider individual complaints. Mrs L has some concerns about RSAs 
processes generally. Shed need to raise those with the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, if she wanted to take them further.
Mrs L says the extent of company Ms responsibilities was never made clear to her. Mrs L 
was given a booklet that explained the insurance cover she was getting under the scheme 
with company M. The booklet set out in terms which I think were clear, fair and not 
misleading as Id expect that her insurance cover was in two parts - company M provided 
cover for any loss or damage to her vehicle and RSA provided other cover, including legal 
expenses insurance.
RSA wrote to Mrs L on 17 July 2017 letting her know theyd instructed their panel solicitors in 
relation to the injury Mrs L had suffered. The solicitors wrote to Mrs L on 19 July 2017. They 
set out that theyd been asked by RSA to claim losses arising from her accident on her 
behalf and the terms and conditions on which theyd be representing her. 
Whilst I acknowledge there was a lot of paperwork, I think it was clear from the information 
Mrs L had that company Ms responsibilities were limited to the vehicle and RSA provided 
the legal expenses insurance. I think the solicitors letter made clear Mrs L was entering into 
a separate contract with them to represent her in relation to her personal injury claim. I dont 
think RSA led Mrs L to believe company M or they would have any ongoing responsibility for 
her personal injury claim beyond RSA meeting her legal expenses up to the level of cover 
the insurance policy provided.
Under the terms of the legal expenses insurance, RSA agreed to provide Mrs L with up to 
£50,000 legal expenses cover for fees, costs and other expenses which, amongst other 
things, her legal representative charged her to bring a claim for personal injury. I can see 
Mrs L has asked whether the insurance includes the costs of pursuing a professional 
negligence claim against the solicitors, but the cover doesnt extend to that as RSAs 
confirmed.
The policy allowed RSA to appoint a legal firm on their panel to represent Mrs L. She says 
RSA shouldnt have recommended the firm they appointed to deal with her case as a 
disabled customer. And Mrs L was concerned one of the lawyers who handled her case 
didnt have the right experience. 
Im satisfied the firm RSA appointed on Mrs Ls behalf had expertise in motor and personal 
injury claims. Theres no evidence RSA had any control over the individual lawyers who 
were asked to work on Mrs Ls case, and I wouldnt expect them to be involved in decisions 
about that. 
RSA discharged their responsibility to Mrs K by appointing a firm of suitably qualified legal 
advisers to act on her behalf. Any concerns Mrs L has about individual lawyers or the 
handling of her complaint would have to be taken up with the firm direct or the Legal 
Ombudsman if shes unhappy with the firms response to her concerns. Mrs Ls unhappy with how the legal advisers handled her complaint and the damages she 
recovered under the settlement that was agreed. She argues RSA was responsible, under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015, for the work the solicitors carried out and that of the experts 
they appointed. 
Although RSA arranged for the legal firm to be appointed on Mrs Ls behalf, Mrs L entered 
into a direct contract with the firm. The lawyers were acting for Mrs L, not RSA, in pursuing 
her claim. The expert witnesses were appointed on Mrs Ls behalf by the legal firm. RSA had 
no involvement in handling her case or responsibility for it, although they were entitled to be 
kept up to date with what was happening. 
I would expect RSA to have intervened if theyd become aware Mrs Ls claim wasnt being 
handled in the right way. But I havent seen any evidence RSA had or ought to have had any 
concerns about the way Mrs Ls case was progressing which leads me to think they should 
have intervened at any point. 
Theres no evidence RSA had any influence over the advice the legal advisers gave or the 
settlement they recommended. And when Mrs L complained after her legal case had been 
settled, RSA asked the solicitors to look into her complaint promptly and they passed on the 
outcome of the firms investigation to Mrs L as Id expect. 
Generally, an insurer is entitled to rely on the advice of the legal adviser unless that advice is 
patently wrong. Mrs Ls concern is that she was put under pressure to settle for less than her 
claim was worth. Theres no evidence to suggest RSA ought to have known the settlement 
was unusually low or of any other reason why RSA should have questioned the advice to 
Mrs L to accept the offer shed been made. So, I dont think RSA behaved unreasonably in 
accepting the settlement advice. 
Mrs L feels shes been discriminated against because of her disability. She says RSA 
refused to mediate on her behalf and argues RSA failed to make reasonable adjustments. A 
court would have to decide if Mrs L had been discriminated against, but I can consider if 
RSA treated Mrs L fairly.  
As Ive mentioned, RSA passed on Mrs Ls concerns about the handling of her legal claim to 
the solicitors and relayed the firms response to Mrs L. I think they did enough to ensure Mrs 
Ls complaint was addressed - theres no obligation on RSA to mediate between Mrs L and 
her legal advisers. 
The reasonable adjustments Mrs L says should have been made relate to failures by the 
solicitors while they were handling her legal claim. Since, as Ive explained, RSA arent 
responsible for the actions of the legal firm, it follows they cant be responsible for any 
reasonable adjustments Mrs L thinks the legal advisers failed to make. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs L will be disappointed, I dont think RSA 
has done anything wrong and I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman