DRN-1783530
The complaint
Mrs N complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (the AA) avoided her 
motor policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim after they said 
shed made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy.   
What happened
Mrs N took out a motor insurance policy with the AA through a price comparison site. In July 
2019 Mrs Ns car was stolen and she tried to make a claim on her policy.
The AA said shed answered a question asked about driving related convictions, 
endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or bans in the previous five years incorrectly when 
taking out the policy. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to avoid this policy, decline Mrs Ns claim and refund the premiums shed 
paid.
Mrs N brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. They believed it was careless. They said the AA should reinstate the policy in 
Mrs Ns name only and consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. He also recommended that the AA should amend any records and central data 
bases to remove any record of the avoidance.
The AA doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theyve said that the named driver (Mrs Ns husband at the time) was a material part of the 
policy, was driving the car at the time of the loss and had Mrs N not made a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy they wouldnt have offered cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
The AA thinks Mrs N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application via a comparison site that the named driver on the policy didnt 
have any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or bans in 
the previous five years.
Ive considered the question that was asked when Mrs N was taking out this policy. The 
question asked was: Have They had any driving related convictions, endorsements, 
penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past 5 years? Mrs N answered No.
I agree with the AA that Mrs N failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering this question. She was asked a clear question and 
answered incorrectly as the named driver had three previous instances of receiving penalty 
points for speeding. Mrs N has explained that she answered incorrectly as she hadnt been 
aware of the penalty points and didnt ask the named driver.
The AA has provided part of the relevant underwriting criteria that shows that if Mrs N had 
not made the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered the named driver cover. But they 
have confirmed that they wouldve covered only Mrs N under the policy.
This means Im satisfied Mrs Ns misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
The AA has said Mrs Ns misrepresentation was careless because she had enough 
opportunity to check that the information she was providing them with was accurate. The AA 
have also said that following the purchase of the insurance Mrs N was sent documentation 
including a statement of insurance which reminded her to take reasonable care to check that 
the information shed provided was completed honestly, fully and to the best of your 
knowledge.
I agree that Mrs Ns misrepresentation was careless rather than reckless or deliberate, 
because she should have taken reasonable care to check the information she was providing 
was accurate and also had a further opportunity when sent the post sale documentation. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Ns misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions the AA can take in accordance with CIDRA. In this case, the AA have avoided 
Mrs Ns policy from inception, not considered her claim and refunded the premiums shes 
paid. But I disagree with the actions the AA have taken under CIDRA. 
I say this because the AA have told us that they would still have offered cover to Mrs N only 
and not the named driver had the misrepresentation not taken place. The named driver on 
this policy had access to two other vehicles and Mrs N has said that adding them was an 
afterthought rather than her main reason for taking out the policy. 
I acknowledge that the AA have referred to the online comparison site not showing them as 
an option had the correct information been entered. Theyve said that they regard the named 
driver as material to the insurance policy as there was confirmed use of them using the 
vehicle  at the time of the loss occurring. Mrs N has told us that the named driver was the 
last person to drive the car before it was stolen, as he simply moved it to allow a rubbish skip 
to be collected from the drive outside her house.
But Ive also noted that Mrs N did also search for a quote just in her name  which supports 
what shes said about adding the named driver as an afterthought. Mrs N has also told us 
that the named driver rarely used the car, possibly only once per month. Given what Mrs N 
has also said about the named drivers access to other vehicles, I find it more likely than not 
shed have chosen to take the policy out in her own name only had she taken reasonable care and checked the information she was giving about the named drivers driving history. 
So I dont agree with the AA that the named driver was material to this policy. 
Therefore, as Im satisfied Mrs Ns misrepresentation was careless not reckless or 
deliberate, I dont think the AA are acting fairly by avoiding this policy and not considering 
this claim. CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases.
Putting things right
What the AA needs to do 
AA should reinstate the policy under amended terms  where only Mrs N is covered. 
AA should also amend any internal and external record of the avoidance 
AA should now consider the claim in line with amended terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive set out under the heading Putting 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman