DRN-2774672
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited has dealt 
with a deferred payment under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services that he electronically signed in October 2018. Mr G applied to 
Volkswagen Financial Services in May 2020 for a deferral of his monthly payments and it 
says that it suspended his account whilst his application was considered. It sent him an e-
mail in July 2020 saying that the suspension was being released but, due to an error, that 
didnt happen until September 2020.
Mr G complained to Volkswagen Financial Services in November 2020 that a missed 
payment had been recorded on his credit file which had caused him to miss out on a 
property development. It upheld his complaint and said that his credit file had been reviewed 
and amended to ensure that no adverse information was recorded about these events and it 
offered him £450 compensation.
He didnt accept that offer and complained to this service. He says that the time hes spent 
dealing with this and the money from the property development that hed missed out on 
equate to a loss of more than £10,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Volkswagen Financial Services removing the missed payment marker from his credit file 
put him back in this position he should have been in and that the compensation of £450 
covered the cost of his calls and the time spent trying to straighten things out.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Volkswagen Financial Services accepts that it made an error, it apologised to Mr G 
for that and it has amended his credit file to ensure that the missed payment isnt 
showing on it;
it has also offered to pay him £450 compensation and I consider that its response to 
his complaint has been fair and reasonable in the circumstances;
Mr G says that his hourly rate is more than £100 and that his time costs in dealing 
with this issue are more than £1,000  but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Volkswagen Financial Services to reimburse him for his 
time costs;
Mr G says that the incorrect information on his credit file prevented him from re-
mortgaging his home and buying another property for development  but he didnt 
apply for the re-mortgage and says that he thought that his application wouldnt be 
successful because of the information on his credit file;
I dont consider that Mr G has provided enough evidence to show that Volkswagen 
Financial Services error prevented him from re-mortgaging his home and buying 
another property for development  or to show that hes suffered a consequential 
financial loss in these circumstances;
I consider that Volkswagen Financial Services response to Mr Gs complaint has 
been fair and reasonable and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to increase its offer of compensation; and
I find that, if it hasnt already done so, Volkswagen Financial Services should pay to 
Mr G the £450 that its offered him.
My final decision
My decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should pay £450 to Mr G.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman