DRN-2805020
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the way that that Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMSL) has tried 
to collect a debt in her name. 
Mrs K wants DMSL to stop asking her to repay the debt or provide evidence that it is entitled 
to collect it from her.
What happened
DMSL bought a debt in Mrs Ks name from a business that I will call S. In late 2019, DMSL 
sent Mrs K a notice of assignment. DMSL agreed that Mrs K could keep making the same 
repayments that shed been making to S.
Mrs K made some monthly repayments and then in January 2020 asked for evidence of the 
debt. DMSL placed Mrs Ks account on hold while it located the paperwork. Mrs K asked to 
see the deed of assignment but DMSL wouldnt provide a copy of this.
In April 2020, DMSL sent Mrs K a copy of the notice of assignment, credit agreement and 
statement. Mrs K asked DMSL to stop contacting her about the debt until it sent her a copy 
of the deed of assignment. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ks complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
DMSL had given Mrs K enough evidence to show that it had authority to collect the debt. 
The investigator didnt think it was necessary for DMSL to put the account on hold pending 
the outcome of Mrs Ks affordability complaint to S.
Mrs K is unhappy that DMSL made a mistake when it wrote to her and referred to the wrong 
creditor. She says its unacceptable for DMSL to first say its working on behalf of its client 
and then say it had bought the debt. 
Mrs K says that without the deed of assignment, DMSLs requests for repayment of the debt 
amount to harassment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal and impartial dispute resolution service as an alternative to court. And 
we dont have the same powers as court. But whilst I dont apply the law directly, I do take 
account of it. 
DMSL sent Mrs K notice of the assignment in October 2019  shortly after it bought the debt. 
Mrs K appears to have acknowledged this in her email of October 2019 when she asked 
DMSL for an online login to continue making payments.
In January 2020, Mrs K made a Subject Access Request to DMSL. Mrs K also raised other 
concerns relating to the processing of her data and her right to be forgotten. DMSL appears 
to have responded to these concerns and in April 2020, it was able to give Mrs K a copy of 
the notice of assignment, credit agreement and statement. It had already told her that it 
wouldnt be providing a copy of the deed of assignment.
My understanding of Mrs Ks complaint is that without providing the deed of assignment, any 
attempt by DMSL to contact her about the debt is harassment. Mrs K is not saying that she 
doesnt owe the money but that shes not satisfied DMSL is entitled to ask her to repay it.
As a regulated business, DMSL must follow the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Its handbook known as CONC explains what a business should do when it buys a debt. The 
relevant rule is:
CONC 6.5 
(1) Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a 
firm, that firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer;
(a) as soon as reasonably possible;
In 2019, the High Court decided that where the parties to the assignment (here thats S and 
DMSL) consider the debt to have been validly transferred  and notify the debtor  thats 
enough for the assignment to be considered valid. And for the new owner to acquire the 
rights to collect the debt. 
Im satisfied that the notice of assignment that DMSL has given to Mrs K is enough to show 
that it owns the debt. I cant say that its unreasonable of DMSL not to give Mrs K a copy of 
the deed of assignment. This is a private document between DMSL and the original creditor.
If Mrs K still wants to see the deed of assignment, she would have to approach the court. But 
I dont find that DMSL should be prevented from pursuing repayment of the debt because it 
wont give Mrs K a copy of the deed. 
I cant say that the nature of DMSLs contact with Mrs K has been unreasonable or 
excessive. As Im satisfied that DMSL owns the debt, I dont consider it to be harassment 
when it continued to write to Mrs K. 
Im satisfied that DMSL responded sympathetically to Mrs Ks financial situation. It placed 
her account on hold at various times and asked her to complete an income and expenditure 
form. If Mrs K hasnt already completed the form, I recommend that she does so that DMSL 
can look to set up an affordable repayment plan.
I appreciate that it was confusing when DMSL referred to the wrong creditor in the body of a 
letter, but Im satisfied that it meant to refer to the original creditor S  particularly as it used 
the right name at the top of the letter and in other correspondence. 
Although Mrs K says that DMSL initially said it was working on behalf of its client, I dont 
have any evidence of this. As far as I can see from DMSLs file notes it told Mrs K in writing 
that it was now the legal owner of the debt not S.
I understand that Mrs K will be disappointed, but I consider DMSL has reasonable grounds 
for believing she is liable for the debt. I dont find that DMSL has done anything wrong, so I 
dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman