DRN-4360365
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund £8,000 he lost in 2018. 
Mr K believes he lost the money as the result of a scam that Lloyds couldve prevented at 
the time. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail again here. However, in summary, Mr K believes he has been the victim of a scam. 
In 2018, Mr K sent £8,000 to a builder that had completed works on another property in the 
same street as his. This £8,000 payment was intended to be the first instalment in an agreed 
payment plan so the builder could start work on Mr Ks property. 
However, shortly after the payment was made, the builder left Mr Ks neighbours property, 
where he had also been working, and disappeared.  
Mr K now believes he has been the victim of a scam. He initially pursued the builder through 
the civil courts and was awarded a judgment against him but, ultimately, he has been unable 
to retrieve any of his lost funds via this route. Because of this, Mr K raised the matter with his 
bank, Lloyds. 
Mr K told Lloyds what had happened and requested that Lloyds provide him with a refund 
because it shouldve done more to protect him from the scam at the time the payment was 
processed. 
Lloyds looked into the concerns Mr K raised but it declined to offer him a refund. It said that 
Mr Ks circumstances amounted to a private civil dispute between him and the builder  
rather than a scam. And so, it wouldnt look to get involved now. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. He reiterated that 
Lloyds shouldve done more to protect him at the time the payment was made. Specifically, 
he said Lloyds shouldve told him to make the payment to the builder via credit card as this 
wouldve offered him more protection should anything go wrong. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said even if he were to be satisfied this 
was a scam, it was unlikely that Lloyds couldve done more to protect Mr K at the time the 
payment was made. He pointed out that had Lloyds asked Mr K further questions about the 
payment at the time, Mr K wouldve been able to provide Lloyds with a contract of agreed 
works and he wouldve been able to confirm that hed seen the builder successfully complete 
work on his neighbours property. So, its unlikely the payment wouldve raised enough 
suspicion to have warranted it being stopped when it was initially requested. He also pointed 
out that there was no obligation for Lloyds to have told Mr K to make the payment by credit 
card and even if it had done so, there was no evidence available to say that the builder 
wouldve been able to facilitate this payment method either.  
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view. He maintained that he had been scammed and 
that Lloyds shouldve done more to protect him from the outset. 
As an agreement has not been reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
So, having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, I wont be upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Lloyds should reimburse him. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I want to say how sorry I am to hear of whats happened to Mr K, and I can 
understand entirely why he feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him - its 
understandable for such a significant sum. I also understand why Mr K feels he has been the 
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact 
fraudulent and/or a scam. 
Its clear the agreement Mr K entered into did not go as planned and Mr K didnt receive the 
services he had been promised and paid for. However, in order to be satisfied that Mr K has 
been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that the builder was not operating a 
legitimate business and was intent on defrauding Mr K from the outset. And Im not satisfied 
that I can say that is most likely what happened here based on the evidence now available to 
me. I say this because there appears to be a number of factors that dont carry the typical 
hallmarks of these particular types of scams or of fraudsters with an intention from the outset 
to defraud: 
Mr K has told us that he first came into contact with the builder when he began 
working on a neighbouring property. Mr K said the builder had been working on this 
property for at least a year. The work completed was significant in nature and was 
completed to a high standard which ultimately meant that the property was sold on 
for a profit. This doesnt support that the builder was operating a scam, it suggests 
that the builder had been running a legitimate building business that had been able to 
engage in and successfully complete jobs to a recommendable standard over a period of time. This leads me to the conclusion that something seems to have gone 
wrong after Mr K made the payment now in question.
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship with their bank, the evidence Ive seen regarding the beneficiary account 
indicates that the builders account was legitimate and the bank hasnt said it had any 
concerns about how the account was being operated prior to Mr K making his 
payment.
So, it is not possible to say now, some five years later, with any degree of certainty whether 
the builder knew that when he took the payment from Mr K that he wouldnt be able to fulfil 
the contract entered into. And so, based on the evidence Ive seen, it would not be 
reasonable for me to say that it was more likely than not that the builder set out to scam Mr 
K from the outset. 
So, after taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say this 
meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a 
contract entered into and later gone wrong. This being the case, I dont think Lloyds have 
treated Mr K unfairly in not pursing this as a scam. 
I understand that this outcome is likely to be seem unsatisfactory to Mr K and so for 
completeness, I also wanted to address his points about Lloyds having been able to prevent 
him from making the payment at the time. 
To be clear, even if I had been satisfied that Mr K had been the victim of a scam here and I 
had assessed Lloyds actions in processing the payment against the relevant regulations at 
the time, I still dont think this would have resulted in the outcome Mr K wanted  the return 
of his funds. 
I say this because, at the time, in 2018, there wasnt any requirement for Lloyds to have told 
Mr K to pay by credit card. Theres also no evidence that the builder, who, at the time was 
operating as a sole trader, wouldve even been able to facilitate this type of payment. And so 
even if this method of payment had been discussed at the time, theres no evidence to say it 
wouldve been possible. And it wouldnt now be reasonable to make the finding that this 
wouldve prevented Mr K from going ahead with the payment. At the time, he was apparently 
confident he was dealing with a legitimate tradesman who he had seen complete work to a 
high standard previously.  
Furthermore, even if Lloyds had discussed the payment with Mr K and asked him some 
probing questions about his circumstances, its likely that Mr K wouldve told Lloyds that he 
was engaging the services of a builder, that he had a detailed contract of works drawn up 
and he had known of the builder for a year and had seen him complete work to a high 
standard on his neighbours property. This was the truth after all. Having been provided with 
this information and being satisfied that Mr K appeared to be engaging with a legitimate 
tradesperson, there would have been no reason for Lloyds to block the payment and there 
wouldve been no further checks to complete. And so, it seems likely that the payment 
wouldve been processed at Mr Ks request. There wouldve been no indication at the time 
that anything untoward was happening. And so, Im not recommending that Lloyds needs to 
refund the money Mr K has lost now. 
In summary, as I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong in treating Mr Ks 
circumstances as a civil dispute. And I dont think there was anything else Lloyds could have 
done to prevent his loss either. I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr K and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on him. But, based on what Ive seen so far, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to refund his money now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman