DRN-4473294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited havent paid a claim made on their 
travel insurance policy (the policy) in full.
All references to Aviva include its medical emergency team and claim handlers. 
What happened
When abroad on holiday with Mr B in March 2023, Mrs B became injured. She was taken to 
hospital for treatment and discharged a few days later. She was subsequently repatriated 
with the assistance of Aviva. 
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on the policy for their out-of-pocket costs, some of which were 
accepted and paid by Aviva. Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that their claim wasnt paid in full 
and complained to Aviva. 
In its final response letter, Aviva concluded that it had paid the aspects of the claim covered 
by the policy and that Mr and Mrs B werent owed anything further. However, it accepted that 
the claim couldve been settled sooner and offered £50 compensation.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
didnt think Aviva had to do anything more to put things right. Mr and Mrs B disagreed. So, 
their complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
Just so everyone is clear, I know Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the way in which 
Aviva handled their repatriation back to the UK. However, that is the subject of a separate 
final response letter issued by Aviva and has been dealt with as a separate complaint by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed, but I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly 
by not covering parts of the claim they made under the policy. Ill explain why.
Subject to the remaining terms and conditions, the policy covers emergency medical 
and associated expenses - if someone covered under the policy falls ill during a trip. 
That includes the travel and accommodation costs for one relative or friend to stay 
with them (or travel to be with them), if Avivas medical emergency assistance 
provider and the treating doctor agree that it is necessary. 
Mr and Mrs Bs daughter did travel to the country they were staying to be with them. 
However, this was arranged before Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva for assistance. So, 
it wasnt able to consider whether it was necessary for their daughter to travel to be 
with Mr and Mrs B. Further, Mr B was with Mrs B to provide support and Ive seen 
nothing from the treating doctor from the time, that it was necessary for a second 
person to be with Mrs B to assist. So, I dont think Aviva unfairly declined to cover 
their daughters flights (even if Aviva have now agreed to cover part of Mr and Mrs 
Bs daughters flight costs as gesture of goodwill, that would be more than it was 
required to do that under the terms of the policy).
Mr and Mrs B made claims for food and drink expenses whilst Mrs B was in hospital 
and after she was discharged and was staying in their accommodation. Under the 
policy, extra charges for half board accommodation (of a similar standard to the 
accommodation you had booked for your trip) are covered if it is medically 
necessary for you to stay after the date you were going to return home or travel to 
your next destination. So, I think Aviva has fairly and reasonably concluded that it 
would cover the costs of up to two meals per day for Mr and Mrs B after shed been 
discharged from hospital back to her accommodation. And any food and drink 
expenses incurred outside of that arent covered under the terms of the policy  
including food and drink bought at the airport when returning to the UK. 
Further, Aviva has paid the medical inconvenience benefit of £20 per night for each 
consecutive 24 hours Mr and Mrs Bs trip was disrupted if they are in hospital 
receiving in-patient treatment. This benefit is often included in travel insurance 
policies to represent the incidental costs someone is likely to incur whilst staying in 
hospital such as for food and drink. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for food and drink costs to be covered separately whilst Mrs B was in hospital, 
particularly as there isnt a policy term covering this expense in such circumstances.
Whilst I know that Mr and Mrs B rented a car which was used for, amongst other 
things, Mr B visiting Mrs B in hospital and to pick their daughter up from the airport, 
having considered the policy terms and conditions, I dont think theres any cover for 
car hire, petrol or taxi costs (in respect of Mr Bs travel to the hospital to visit Mrs B). 
However, Aviva has said that if Mr and Mrs B are able to provide any documentary 
evidence of Mrs B having to attend outpatient medical appointments after she was 
discharged from hospital, it would reconsider the proportionate costs of the car hire 
for the day(s) the car was used for that purpose. I think thats fair and reasonable. 
The policy covers the cost of getting you homeif it is medically necessary because 
you are seriously injuredduring your trip and you cannot use your return ticket.  It 
isnt disputed that Aviva covered the cost of the return flights home which Mr and Mrs 
B ended up taking. They didnt use the return flights theyd originally booked and 
rearranged. However, they wouldve always had to pay to return to the UK even if the 
accident hadnt occurred  meaning their stay had to be extended. So, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to also reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the return 
flights they paid for and were, ultimately, unable to use. 
Aviva has used a particular currency converter to calculate the relevant exchange 
rate at the time certain costs were incurred by Mr and Mrs B for the aspects of the 
claim it has accepted. It says thats standard industry practice. However, it has also 
said that it will reassess the amounts paid in light of the exchange rates set out in Mr 
and Mrs Bs credit card statements from the time. If theres any difference, its said it 
will pay this to them. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Aviva has more recently agreed to cover and settled the pharmacy costs in the 
approximate sum of 80 euros which it says was previously overlooked. 
Aviva accepts that there was a delay in settling Mr and Mrs Bs claim. Its offered £50 
compensation to recognise this. Im satisfied this amount fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs B having to wait longer than they 
reasonably shouldve to settle their claim. 
Putting things right
I understand from Aviva that the offer of £50 compensation set out in the final response letter 
wasnt accepted so hasnt been paid. That being the case, Im satisfied that Aviva should 
pay Mr and Mrs B £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience its already offered.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to Mr and Mrs B to settle the 
complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva Insurance 
Limited should pay £50 to Mr and Mrs B if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman