DRN-4156988
The complaint
Mr E and Miss S complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. They arent 
happy about the way it dealt with a potential subsidence claim under their home insurance 
policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to Lloyds Bank includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E and Miss S made a claim under their home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank. But 
when it dealt with the claim Lloyds Bank suggested there was subsidence at the property, 
but Lloyds Bank changed its mind on various occasions. Mr E and Miss S went on to 
complain to Lloyds Bank and then this Service as they wanted confirmation that there wasnt 
any subsidence at the property or for Lloyds Bank to undertake the necessary repairs related 
to any possible subsidence.
Our investigator looked into things for them, but he thought Lloyds Bank hadnt acted 
unreasonably. He looked at the various final response letters (FRLs) and felt Lloyds Bank 
had made it clear that subsidence had occurred at the property. He was satisfied that Mr E 
and Miss S had a valid claim under the policy subject to the policy excess which Mr E 
outlined had been waived by Lloyds Bank partly in compensation for surveying reports they 
had paid for. However, our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say that 
this had been agreed verbally. So, he thought Mr E and Miss S should pay the excess in 
order to allow the claim to proceed. 
As Mr E and Miss S didnt agree, seeming to believe that they should get confirmation that 
there wasnt a subsidence problem at their property as opposed to a claim being advanced, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that Lloyds Banks offer to advance a claim in relation to subsidence 
if Mr E and Miss S want to pursue this seems fair. Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand Mr E and Miss S frustration and confusion here as there clearly has been 
confusing communication from Lloyds Bank and its representatives about their property and 
the subsidence issue. However, while this complaint has been with this Service for 
consideration our investigator checked the latest position with Lloyds Bank. And it has 
confirmed the latest position saying that since the drains have been repaired at the property 
that the cause of the subsidence has been removed but the subsidence issue remains. 
Given this I wouldnt expect Lloyds Bank to confirm that there wasnt any subsidence given 
its experts opinion. And as Mr E and Miss S wanted confirmation of this or to be able to 
proceed with a claim I think Lloyds Banks position of allowing the subsidence claim (subject 
to the policy excess) seems fair. I know Mr E has said it was verbally agreed that his excess 
wouldnt be payable, as he paid for surveys separately, but I havent seen any evidence of 
this so Mr E and Miss S would be expected to pay this. However, if Miss S and Mr E have 
paid costs in relation to their claim that should be refunded I would expect Lloyds Bank to 
consider these. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
has acted fairly here. And Ill simply leave it to Mr E and Miss S to decide if they wish to 
pursue their claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman