DRN-3705354
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Omni didnt respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Omni says that Mr B has not substantiated his verbal testimony. Omni adds 
that the costs were set out for Mr B on his credit agreement and he was also given a 
document with the estimated benefits set out. It therefore feels it was made clear to Mr B, 
that the panels would not be self-funding. 
I have reviewed the documents referred to by Omni and can see that the annual estimated 
returns are amongst an array of different facts and figures. I think given Mr Bs lack of 
experience in solar panels and energy generation figures, he would have required help in 
understanding what these facts and figures meant. And Mr B says he was assured that the 
solar panels would be self-funding. 
Additionally, theres nothing on this document the mentions the finance, the cost of the 
panels, the likely monthly or yearly repayments or the term of the loan. So, in order to 
compare the benefits with the cost, Mr B would have to look at his finance agreement and 
calculate the yearly payments to deduce that that the estimated annual benefits would 
unlikely cover the cost of the loan. 
Mr Bs testimony has been clear and consistent throughout and he says he was told the 
panels would be self-funding. I think it was reasonable for Mr B to rely on what he was being 
told. And Im not persuaded that these documents are clear enough to demonstrate that 
Mr B was told the panels would not be self-funding. As explained above, hed have to look at 
multiple documents, and carry out calculations to figure out that the panels would not be self-
funding. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Omni didnt treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Omni did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Omni needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Omni to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Omni needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation. 
I understand Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, so he should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Omni, and Omni should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Omni loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Omni that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Omni should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman