DRN-2602236
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from TSB Bank Plc when he asked it to 
process a chargeback.
What happened
Mr B purchased a television through an online retailer in April 2020 for around £80. When his 
parcel was delivered it contained face masks instead of the television hed ordered. Mr B 
contacted the retailer and it said it had experienced problems with its delivery company and 
it suggested Mr B keep the masks and it would issue a partial refund.
Mr B didnt want or need the masks and he wanted a full refund  so he contacted TSB to 
ask it to help him get his money back. Mr B told us:
TSB said it would only look into the matter if he returned the face masks to the 
retailer and hed need to provide proof that hed done so;
he was initially very uncomfortable going into the Post Office in the middle of a 
pandemic, but he reluctantly agreed to do so in order to progress the matter;
he sent the masks back to the retailer and confirmed this to TSB and he provided it 
with a receipt from the Post Office;
the bank told him it couldnt accept the receipt as proof of postage, and he shouldve 
posted the face masks via registered mail;
hes unhappy with the service TSB provided; he wants a full refund from the bank 
and some compensation  he says he was asked for the same information several 
times, hes spent hours on the phone to the bank, and the bank caused him anxiety, 
distress and inconvenience when it knew about his health condition. And it told him 
he would be refunded the disputed amount in full while the bank conducted its 
investigation  but this didnt happen.
TSB rejected this complaint. It explained that it wasnt able to dispute a transaction on the 
grounds of Goods Not Received but that it could raise a dispute on the grounds of Goods 
Not As Described. But in order to do this, the regulations required it to ask Mr B to return the 
goods to the retailer and provide the bank with evidence he had done so. The bank 
apologised in the event that Mr B had been given incorrect information about the refund 
process when he telephoned it, but TSB said it had carried out its chargeback investigation 
correctly.
TSB says it was sorry that Mr B was a victim of what appears to have been a scam and it 
appreciates that he may feel its been a long process to recover his money. But it says to 
enable it to successfully complete a chargeback, it is important that it has the relevant 
information.
TSB confirmed Mr B had disputed the payment on 1 May and it says it told him on 14 May 
that hed need to return the goods to the merchant so that it could dispute the transaction. It 
says it asked Mr B for a copy of the sales invoice and Mr B provided this on 18 June. And 
TSB says it raised a chargeback that same day and credited Mr Bs account in full on 
18 June.
TSB said it wasnt aware of Mr Bs health condition and there werent any customer notes on 
file. TSB told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and with its employees 
working from home, it was some time before it could record telephone calls from customers. 
But it said that it wasnt until 2 July that it became aware of Mr Bs health condition and it 
wouldve had no knowledge of it when he first raised his dispute in May 2020.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She said 
she was satisfied that TSB had referred to the correct code when it raised the chargeback  
goods not as described  and she explained that because there is only one opportunity to do 
this, it was important that TSB got things right and had all of the correct information to hand. 
She was satisfied that Mr B did need to return the goods to the merchant before they could 
do this, but she didnt think he needed to use recorded delivery or registered post and could 
understand Mr Bs frustration with what TSB told him.
Our investigator did say that based on the emails shed seen, Mr B had made the bank 
aware of his medical condition on 14 May, and the wording of that email suggested TSB 
shouldve been aware of this some time prior to this. She said TSB shouldve made 
reasonable adjustments which wouldve helped Mr B in this situation. Taking everything into 
account, she thought that TSB should pay Mr B £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused him, and a further £50 to reimburse him for his telephone costs.
TSB disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says it followed the correct 
process to raise the chargeback and that this was successful. And it doesnt agree that it 
should be responsible for the telephone costs Mr B incurred because he felt the need to 
contact the bank, as often as he did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr B received from TSB. This is because although Mr B paid for something that he 
didnt receive and was also unable to get a full refund from the retailer, both Mr B and TSB 
have confirmed that the chargeback was ultimately successful, and the money was credited 
to Mr Bs bank account in June 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for TSB to ask for a payment Mr B made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr B paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.In this case, it appears that Mr B wasnt provided with the goods that he originally paid for. 
And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect TSB to raise a 
chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within Visas 
chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it.
I can understand that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr B. Hed 
ordered and paid for a television, and from what hes told us, his experience with the retailer 
wouldve caused him anxiety when it offered him only a partial refund and blamed a third 
party for delivering the wrong goods.
But I cant hold TSB responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the online retailer who 
caused the initial problems here as it sent Mr B something he hadnt ordered and then it 
didnt give him his money back when it seems it should have.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr B first contacted TSB, dealing with 
significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the global 
pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were relatively 
novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at a very 
unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
But even so, Id have expected TSB to have handled Mr Bs claim better than it did. I say this 
because Ive read the email exchange between Mr B and TSB and although TSB acted 
quickly in raising the chargeback once it had all the information it needed, I think it couldve 
better explained the process and the likely timescales to Mr B at the outset. And it couldve 
been more supportive and understanding of a customer in Mr Bs situation  perhaps 
undertaking a chargeback claim for the first time  and with a medical condition it knew 
about. Instead TSB significantly added to Mr Bs anxiety and frustration when it wrongly told 
him that the evidence he had, confirming hed returned the goods to the retailer wasnt good 
enough  when it was.
I think the poor service and delays in dealing with his claim wouldve caused Mr B additional 
worry and anxiety. TSB shouldve appreciated this.
TSB says it wasnt aware of Mr Bs medical circumstances until July  after it had 
successfully completed the chargeback. But I dont agree. The emails Ive seen are clear  
Mr B makes TSB aware of his circumstances on 14 May 2020. And, like our investigator, I 
think the wording of that email indicates that the bank shouldve already been aware of this.
Ive considered the banks position when it said it shouldnt be responsible for the telephone 
costs just because Mr B felt the need to contact it as often as he did. But I disagree  Mr Bs 
telephone costs were a direct result of the poor service and poor communication from the 
Bank; TSB couldve provided Mr B with an easier and more effective way to contact it from 
the outset.
Putting things rightIm going to ask TSB to pay Mr B £150 in recognition of the poor service it provided and the 
distress, anxiety and inconvenience it caused. Im also going to ask TSB to pay Mr B an 
additional £50 to cover the costs he says he incurred because of all the telephone calls he 
had to make. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and 
I dont think TSB needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr B £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman