DRN-1593660
 
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited wants to 
charge him for damage to its car. He also complains about how it has gone about recovering 
the debt.
What happened
In August 2016 Mr D hired a new car from VWFS. When the agreement ended, in October 
2019, Mr D returned the car to it. One of the things that Mr D had agreed to when he entered 
into the agreement was to keep the car in a good state of repair and return it in that state. He 
also agreed if he didnt do that VWFS could ask him to pay to put the car right.
Mr D was aware that there was damage to the rear bumper of the car. He told us the 
damage was a scratch. He had thought about getting it repaired before returning the car and 
even asked a tradesman how much this might cost, he was told around £55.20 (this was for 
polishing out the scratch). However, VWFS asked an independent expert who I shall call B 
to report on the state of the car, and to cost up any repairs. Overall B said the repair work 
would cost £887. Of that £887, £768 was for the repair to the rear bumper which it said 
needed replacing. VWFS requested this amount from Mr D.
Mr D objected to VWFSs request for payment on several grounds. He thought the rear 
bumper was merely scratched. But the report said the rear bumper was cracked. As above 
he thought the bumper did not need to be replaced it could have been repaired. He didnt 
agree that the work had even been done, by VWFS, in any event. So, he thought, there was 
no loss to VWFS on this basis. And even if the work had been done, which most likely it had 
not been, the charge for the work was excessive.
Further, Mr D pointed out that the car was returned having done less mileage than he was 
entitled to have done in it. This he thought, would have increased the residual value of the 
car. He thought this increase in residual value ought to be considered when calculating what, 
if anything, he ought fairly to pay VWFS. According to Mr Ds calculations, VWFS would 
have made money on the deal as the increase in the cars residual value was more than the 
cost of the repairs.
As a minimum Mr D wanted VWFS to waive the charges. He also talked about a previous 
complaint he had with a third-party company. In that case, he was offered £250 because the 
business in that complaint had insisted at first, wrongly, that it was in the right. But later, that 
business had acknowledged that its stance had been misguided and paid Mr D £250. He 
suggested VWFS ought to pay a similar award to compensate him and to encourage it to 
take a more reasonable approach in future cases.
VWFS didnt see it like Mr D did at all. Rather, it underlined that it had had a report done by 
an expert, B. B had given an estimate of the repair costs which it considered to be 
reasonable. Its agreement with Mr D allowed it to charge him for these repairs. On that 
basis, it didnt agree it had done anything wrong.
Moreover, VWFS noted what Mr D said about not having used all his mileage allowance. But 
there was no provision in the contract to do the type of calculation and rebate that Mr D 
suggested would a fair approach. It declined to discuss this further.
Dissatisfied with VWFSs response, Mr D came to our service.
Our investigator investigated Mr Ds complaint. In summary, he didnt recommend upholding 
it because he didnt agree VWFS was acting unreasonably in the circumstances.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr D did not. In short, he suggested 
VWFS had given inconsistent information about why the rear bumper needed to be replaced.  
He pointed out he was in no position to contradict Bs report by getting his own report done. 
This is because the car has been sold on even though he made it clear he disagreed with 
the report 2 days after the car was inspected and collected. 
Further, he told us again that VWFS was claiming for loss, but the loss was theoretical. He 
then gave a detailed analysis of why he thought this, which expanded on the reasoning he 
had already given to our investigator. Mr D also thought VWFS had acted inappropriately in 
pursuing him for the debt when as far as he was aware it had said it wouldnt do this while 
the complaint was with us. He thought not only was VWFS wrong to pursue him for the debt 
but the way it had gone about it was also inappropriate.
Mr D asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint, please let me explain why I have reached this 
conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.I think it is reasonable to assume, as a starting point, that when a person reads and signs an 
agreement  they understand the terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound 
by them. It follows, I think, also as a starting point that the parties should be able to rely on 
the provisions of the contract. The hire agreement provides, as I already mentioned that Mr 
D is obliged to keep the car in good condition and return it to VWFS in that state at the end 
of the agreement. If he doesnt it can charge him for repairs. Mr D does not have to pay for 
fair wear and tear though. And the question of what goes beyond wear and tear is assessed 
by reference to industry guidance created by an industry body, the BVRLA.
The damage does go beyond fair wear and tear, it seems the parties, agree about that. So, 
on the face of it VWFS is merely relying on its contractual rights in charging Mr D as it is 
doing here. That being, so it would seem I have no proper basis to tell VWFS it cant rely on 
the contractual provisions that Mr D freely accepted.
But this isnt the whole story. Mr D tells us that VWFSs reasons for charging him to replace 
the rear bumper have changed. Initially it said the bumper had to be replaced because it was 
cracked. It now says the bumper has to be replaced because the damage cannot be 
polished out. I take his point. Ideally, VWFS would have been consistent in its reasons, I can 
see why this might undermine Mr Ds confidence in it. That said, I think the underlying point 
is this, has the car been so damaged while in Mr Ds care that a replacement is necessary? 
The answer seems to be yes. So, on that basis I think VWFS can fairly and reasonably 
charge Mr D for this.
Mr D suggests he has not been given a fair opportunity to dispute Bs conclusions. I dont 
agree. He was well aware of the damage, he knew he would have to pay for it so he could 
have got the work done himself, before he handed over the car. So, in that sense if he 
wanted to avoid whatever charge VWFS was going to apply, he had his chance. Moreover, 
B is an independent expert third party, it is not clear to me therefore why it might act 
unprofessionally and inflate the price of the repair or suggest an unnecessary repair. I dont 
find it is likely that the charge and the reason for the charge that B has put forward is likely to 
be out of kilter with normal industry charging practice. 
I realise that Mr D got a quote for work to the rear bumper. But it seems his quote was for 
polishing out not a replacement.  Therefore, I dont find I can fairly rely on Mr Ds quote in 
assessing what a fair charge for replacing the bumper might be.
Mr D tells us that the repair work was never done. He suggests VWFS will say that is 
irrelevant because the charge is meant to cover it for any loss in value the car might 
experience due to the damage. So, either it makes a loss through having to do the repair or 
it takes a hit on the resale value of the car. Either way it is making a loss. VWFS, hasnt said 
this explicitly but I think Mr Ds analysis on this point is likely to be correct. All this is moot 
though because Mr D goes on to say.
Again, regardless of whether this amount can be justified, it is the basis all leasing 
companies work on, and I am not arguing against this. I agree that had the car been 
returned under the original contract conditions (date and mileage) such a sum for damage 
would have been payable, though as noted above I still dispute the amount.
It follows that I need look no further at this particular point. Mr D is not disputing VWFSs 
right to charge him, in general. His point is about the amount he is being charged. I have 
already said why I find it fair and reasonable that VWFS can charge Mr D the amount it has 
asked for.Mr D suggests VWFS ought not to charge him in this instance because of the profit he 
suggests it has made on the contract. In particular, Mr D has made some very detailed 
points about the residual value of the car in part because of the fact that the car had lower 
mileage than anticipated as Mr D didnt use his full mileage allowance. Indeed, he says he 
was substantially under it and I have no reason to doubt what he has said on this point. 
Certainly, VWFS seem to accept this is correct. 
Mr D also talks about how VWFS has made money under the agreement in relation to the 
maintenance costs. 
In short, he suggests that overall VWFS has made money from the deal rather than a loss. 
He also suggests that a matter of contract law VWFS ought not to be allowed to charge for a 
loss where he says none has been made. And he thinks VWFS may also have acted 
illegally.
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual particular circumstances of 
this complaint. I have not got the power to declare that VWFS acted illegally, that is the role 
of the courts. That said, a court may take a different view of the situation as he suggests. 
Should Mr D not accept my final decision, then any rights he may have to take action in the 
courts against VWFS are unaffected and he will be free to pursue his arguments  including 
those about contract law and the legality of VWFSs actions in any court action that may 
arise.
The contract makes no provision to offset one set of charges against the other as Mr D 
invites me to do here. I have no information to suggest that such an approach was in the 
contemplation of the parties at the time they made the contract. I have nothing that leads me 
to infer that if the parties had thought about this point when contracting, the offset is the 
conclusion they would have come to. And for all of these reasons, I think I have no proper 
basis to retrospectively insert a fundamental change into the contract at the invitation of one 
of the parties to the contract who now sees the contract in this fashion. If the situation were 
different and VWFS were inviting me to take this approach and Mr D didnt want it I can well 
imagine the strength of his objection to it.
For all these reasons, I make no finding against VWFS for this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D is upset that VWFS continued to pursue him for the debt even when the complaint was 
with us. He tells us that VWFS had previously agreed to pause its debt recovery actions 
while the complaint was ongoing. Im not sure that it did. But even if I am mistaken on this 
point, any such offer would have been a goodwill gesture by VWFS, something that it offered 
to do of its own free will. It could decide to take back such a gesture at any point, and Id not 
be able to make it act differently. 
Moreover, Mr D has indicated he thinks a payment of £250 is fair and reasonable given that 
VWFS has from his perspective stuck unreasonably to an unsustainable argument. But I 
dont see it like that. It, like he, has merely given us its stance, which is what I would expect. 
Albeit Mr D sees that stance as unreasonable. Also, Ive noted what Mr D has said about 
VWFSs failings and the need for it to be encouraged to behave better, but Im not the 
regulator. Its not for me to fine financial businesses, and the awards I make arent intended 
to be a punishment.
Mr D objects to the manner in which VWFS has carried out its debt recovery actions. He 
thinks its behaviour oversteps the mark and is inappropriate. But sending out professionally 
worded formal letters asking for payment for a debt that is owed under a contractual 
agreement, isnt inappropriate. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman