DRN-3354533
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered to refund the 
premiums they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr H purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 24 January 2020, to cover trips within Europe of up to 
45 days duration. The policy started on 24 January 2020 and ended on 23 January 2021. 
Mrs and Mr H paid a total of £614.93 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
number of declared medical conditions. They also took out cover for hire car excess waiver 
insurance at a cost of £38.99. In total, Mrs and Mr H paid £653.92 for their policy.
Mrs and Mr H said they were due to travel abroad during the week beginning 13 August 
2020. However, their holiday was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, on 21 
August 2020, they contacted Great Lakes to request a refund of their insurance premium. 
They informed Great Lakes that they hadnt been able to travel as theyd intended because 
of the pandemic and felt the cost of their travel insurance should be reimbursed. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr H that a full refund couldnt be provided as their cooling 
off period had expired. But it offered them a partial refund of £98, which is said reflected the 
length of time the policy had been in force.
Mrs and Mr H declined Great Lakes refund offer and referred their complaint to us where it 
was considered by one of our investigators, who acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 24 January 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they thought the offer Great Lakes had 
made to resolve this complaint was fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs and Mr H didnt 
agree and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide 
what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Hs travel insurance policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or the 
date on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later... After the 
statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by contacting us, but no 
refund of premium will be available.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs and Mr H to receive a 
refund of the premiums they requested because: 
Cover under their policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, which 
is confirmed by the insurance documentation they received. Im satisfied Mrs and Mr 
H were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Mrs and Mr H didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of their policy until 21 
August 2020. And they didnt request the cancellation of their policy at any time. 
Even if they had done during their conversation on 21 August 2020, this would have 
been outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say 
this because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have 
prevented Mrs and Mr H travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was 
beyond their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs 
and Mr Hs contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs and Mr Hs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  this is because cover 
under the policy started on 24 January 2020.
Mrs and Mr H were insured from 24 January 2020 for travelling on any number of 
trips within Europe of up to 45 days duration which they may have taken until the 
policy expired. They have said they werent able to travel abroad while covered by 
this policy. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since 
their policy was incepted. 
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr H for the cancellation of any 
holidays which they had booked and were due to take from 24 January 2020 until 23 
January 2021. So, they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any 
number of holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy including, 
for example, them falling ill with their declared pre-existing medical conditions. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr H contacted Great 
Lakes on 21 August 2020 to request a refund of their policy premium. By this time, 
their policy had 155 days left to run before it expired.  
Ive already explained that Mrs and Mr H didnt cancel their policy at any time. It 
therefore ran to full term until its expiry on 23 January 2021. So, it wouldnt be 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline to refund any of the premium Mrs and Mr H 
paid.
In efforts to resolve this complaint, Great Lakes offered to refund £98 or 15% of the 
premium Mrs and Mr H paid. I understand that they feel they should receive a higher 
premium refund because they havent been able to use their policy as theyd 
intended. But I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably here in its offer to resolve this 
complaint because its treated the date Mrs and Mr H first contacted it in the same 
way it would have done had they requested the cancellation of their policy at that 
time.
If Mrs and Mr H had requested that Great Lakes cancel their policy on 21 August 
2020, theyd have been on cover for 211 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its 
claims experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months 
of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is 
not spread evenly across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for 
calculating the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated 
that there was a material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this 
annual insurance policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs and Mr 
H unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. And I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to offer a larger refund in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
Given that Mrs and Mr H didnt cancel their policy, and because Great Lakes had 
been on risk for 211 days before they contacted it to discuss their policy refund 
request, I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for it to offer a 15% premium refund. 
Ive clarified that the offer would be paid as a cash settlement either via a cheque 
payment. Great Lakes should therefore refund Mrs and Mr H £98 in line with its offer 
to resolve this complaint. Im not going to direct it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman