DRN-3823515
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint relates to a mortgage she has with Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS). She has 
said that she was told in 2011 that she would have access to lower interest rate products 
following BoS consenting to her letting the property out. That has not been the case since 
2014 and she thinks the interest rates she has been charged since were too high and unfair. 
Mrs C wants the additional 1.5% interest she has been paying, because she lets the 
property out, to be refunded from 2016 when she first complained about the interest rate 
associated with the mortgage.
What happened
One of my ombudsman colleagues looked into our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
She concluded that Mrs Cs complaint regarding the information about interest rate products 
she was given when she applied for consent to lease (CTL), had been made too late. In 
relation to the interest rate Mrs C has been paying due to the CTL, we can only consider that 
complaint from the date her last complaint about the issue was responded to in December 
2016. In light of this, I have only documented below information relevant to that part of the 
complaint, or facts to provide context.
Mrs C began leasing her property in 2012 with the permission of BoS under the CTL. In 
2014 BoS made a policy decision that it would no longer offer interest rate products on 
mortgages with CTL. As such, when any existing products ended, all such mortgages 
reverted to standard variable rate (SVR) plus 1.5%. 
Mrs C was informed that she would be being charged the additional 1.5% levy for CTL, but 
she has not been, so her mortgage has been on SVR throughout the period I can consider. 
BoS responded to Mrs Cs most recent complaint in a letter dated 20 May 2022. It declined 
to comment on the complaint as it considered that it had been raised too late. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with the response she received and referred the complaint to this 
service. My ombudsman colleague issued her decision regarding jurisdiction on 11 October 
2022. Following this our investigator considered the merits of the complaint. She didnt 
recommend it be upheld. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said that the point of her complaint 
was that she had been given no options by BoS, it had changed its stance on providing 
special rates and so she hadnt been treated fairly.
Our investigator explained our role and reiterated that the issue regarding BoS not offering 
new interest rate products fell outside the period for which we could consider Mrs Cs 
complaint. She remained of the view that BoS hadnt treated Mrs C unfairly.
Mrs C made various comments about her having not breached the mortgage terms and she 
said that she didnt agree that we couldnt look at why she had been forced to pay such a 
high interest rate since 2016. However, she acknowledged that lenders were not obliged to 
offer promotional rates, but then said that if they only offered SVR they wouldnt get any 
business. Mrs C said that her point was that she wasnt offered a choice; BoS took the 
choice away from her and so didnt treat her fairly and didnt act in its customers best 
interests. Mrs C asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
We review our jurisdiction at each stage of a complaint. Having done so, I am in agreement 
with my ombudsman colleague that we are only able to consider Mrs Cs concern about the 
interest rate applied to the mortgage after the December 2016 final response letter.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the specific merits of this case, I think it would help if I explained that 
Mrs C has a residential mortgage, which means that under the terms of that mortgage she 
cannot let the property out. So technically, when Mrs C moved out of the property she had 
three options: to leave the property unoccupied, to sell it, or if she wanted to rent it out, take 
out a commercial mortgage that would allow her to do so. However, many lenders agree 
concessions to residential mortgage terms and give consent to let or lease. This allows a 
consumer to rent out their home for a period, but it is not meant to be a permanent 
arrangement. 
If a borrower wants to rent out a property permanently, they would be expected to change 
their mortgage arrangements to reflect the change in the nature of the property, from 
residential to commercial. Commercial mortgages in general tend to be more expensive than 
residential ones to reflect the different risk they present to the lender. As such, many lenders 
increase the interest rate applicable to residential mortgages secured on properties that are 
being used for commercial purposes. There is nothing generically wrong with them doing 
this, as long as they apply the policy fairly to all of their customers in a similar position.
The interest rates offered by a lender, including whether it offers special rates, are a matter 
of its commercial judgement. Generally speaking, it is not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to interfere with that judgement where it is exercised fairly. So even if 
Mrs Cs complaint about BoS decision not to offer special interest rates to CTL customer fell 
within our jurisdiction, which it does not, it would not be within the remit of my role to decide 
whether it should have offered her special interest rates or not. 
BoS made the decision some time ago that it would not offer new rates to customers who 
were letting their properties out commercially. That means that during the period I can 
consider Mrs Cs complaint about the interest rate linked to her mortgage being too high, 
there were no special rates available to her or any other BoS customers in the same 
position. The rate that Mrs C paid was BoS SVR, which is its default rate for mortgages and 
so I cant find that BoS treated her unfairly. 
It is unfortunate that Mrs Cs personal circumstances have meant that shes been unable to 
alter her arrangements to a more suitable mortgage for her purposes, and thereby give her 
the possibility of accessing interest rate products that might be beneficial. However, I cant 
find BoS is responsible for that situation or that it should have treated her differently from 
how it has.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
31 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman