DRN-1724249
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store card in 2000. I can see Mr D has made complaints about a number of products, so to 
be clear, this decision is about PPI on his House of Fraser card.
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
I note that AXA France IARD has already said, some considerable time ago, that it intended 
to pay Mr D some money for the commission that was obtained from the sale of the PPI to 
him. Mr D says he hasnt been paid this yet.
For the actual mis-sale element, our adjudicator has assessed the complaint and provided a 
view that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr D disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I dont think AXA France IARD has progressed this complaint particularly well, which I  
accept will have been frustrating for Mr D. And I certainly dont doubt Mr D when he says he 
doesnt remember asking for the PPI on his card account. AXA France IARD, on the other 
hand, says this was a telephone sale which occurred several months after Mr D had taken 
his card out in the shop. Mr D denies there was such a call.
Nevertheless, I do think the PPI was added several months after the card had been issued. I 
can see this from the relevant computer records. 
Weve seen a few of these types of complaint and as a consequence, weve looked into the 
sales process to see what we think usually happened. From the computerised records we 
still have access to, it looks like Mr D took his store card out in September 1999 and 
operated it until April 2000 without any PPI.  By definition therefore, I think its safe to say he 
would have known getting his store card account wasnt dependent on him having to also 
have the PPI cover. We also know that phone marketing calls did take place at around that 
time. We no longer have access to the call recording, but from our experience, we think its 
more likely that consumers like Mr D were required to consent to the PPI being added before 
it was loaded on to their account.After some 20 years, Mr D understandably doesnt remember agreeing to this and I dont 
doubt his honesty. But we know he subsequently went on to be charged quite a bit for PPI, 
so I think the charges would have prominently started to show up on his accounts monthly 
statements. He would have been able to see therefore that PPI charges were starting to 
occur after the phone call and been able to ask what they were for if he wasnt sure. Ive 
seen nothing that suggests he challenged the charges, so I think its more likely his consent 
was obtained at the time.
This was a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to provide 
enough clear information for Mr D to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover. I 
acknowledge AXA France IARD could have possibly set out the information about the PPI in 
a better way, but overall think its more likely there was a sales script which the call agent 
was told to follow so Mr D had access to enough information to allow him to make an 
informed decision. 
Ive also thought very carefully about the sickness benefits Mr D says he had with his job. 
But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. Mr D was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The 
cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave 
more protection than most credit cards. For example, if hed become unable to work or lost 
his job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of his outstanding store card balance each month until 
he returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve 
been in addition to any other means Mr D had in place at the time.
I know Mr D will be disappointed but Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold to 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds mis-sale complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman