DRN-1728492
 
complaint
Miss R complains about the decision by Westfield Contributory Health Scheme (Westfield 
Health) not to cover two claims in full under a health cash plan. 
background
Miss R needed an MRI scan after injuring her hip. She contacted Westfield Health, who 
advised a scan could be arranged through its scanning facility. Miss R spoke with Westfield 
Healths scanning facility and says she was told the scan couldnt be arranged for three 
weeks. As Miss R needed the scan urgently, she decided to pay for it herself. It cost £295. 
She asked Westfield Health if it would reimburse her for this. 
Westfield Health said the scan would only be covered if it was arranged through its scanning 
facility. However, as a goodwill gesture, it said it would make a payment towards the scan, 
so long as this came out of her annual consultation benefit of £200. It therefore paid £200 
towards the scan. 
Miss R then asked Westfield Health to pay for a consultation in relation to another matter. 
Westfield Health turned down the claim, as Miss R had exceeded her annual consultation 
benefit - as a result of it paying £200 towards the MRI scan out of this benefit. Unhappy with 
this, Miss R brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As the policy only covered MRI 
scans arranged through Westfield Healths scanning facility, he thought Westfield Health had 
acted reasonably. 
Miss R didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that it wont cover an MRI scan, unless this is arranged through 
Westfield Healths scanning facility. It says the policyholder must contact the scanning 
helpline and allow them to arrange the scan on the policyholders behalf. And that costs 
towards scans arranged in any other way cannot be claimed. It also says that appointments 
often take place within two weeks of initial contact. 
Miss R says that when she spoke with Westfield Healths scanning facility, she was told the 
scan couldnt be arranged for three weeks. As she needed the MRI scan urgently, she 
decided to pay for this herself. 
Ive listened to the calls and I dont agree that Miss R was told this. There were two calls 
made to the scanning facility  one of those rang out. However, in the other, Miss R did 
speak to an adviser. She was told that an MRI scan takes around one to two weeks to be 
booked. Miss R seemed unhappy with this and made the point that she couldnt walk. The 
adviser explained that the policy was only intended to provide cover for routine scans. 
As Miss R was advised the scan could be arranged within the two-week timeframe set out in 
Westfield Healths policy terms, I dont find that Westfield Health did anything wrong here. 
I can understand Miss Rs decision to pay for the scan herself. She couldnt walk and so the 
scan was urgent. However, the policy does make it clear that Westfield Health doesnt cover 
MRI scans unless these are arranged through its scanning facility, and that this can usually 
be arranged within two weeks. 
As a goodwill gesture, Westfield Health offered to reimburse Miss R £200 shed paid towards 
her scan, so long as this was paid out of her annual consultation benefit of £200. I think this 
was a reasonable solution. During the call where this was agreed, Miss R made Westfield 
Health aware that shed had a consultation with a specialist for a separate matter and had 
sent Westfield Health the receipt. Westfield Health made it clear that she wouldnt be able to 
claim for this if it paid £200 towards her scan.
Soon after, Westfield Health received Miss Rs claim for her consultation with a specialist. As 
shed already used her consultation benefit of £200 for the MRI scan, that meant Westfield 
Health turned down her claim for this consultation. 
Whilst I can appreciate Miss R was disappointed her consultation claim was turned down, 
Im satisfied shed previously understood that Westfield Health was going to apply her £200 
consultation benefit to her claim for the MRI scan. The alternative would have been for 
Westfield Health to refuse to pay anything towards the MRI scan (as it would have been 
entitled to do under the policy). That would have left Miss R with the £200 consultation 
benefit to use, which could have then been applied to her later consultation with her 
specialist. However, this wouldnt have made any difference financially to Miss R, as the 
maximum she would have received from Westfield Health would have still been £200. 
Miss R also complains that Westfield Health initially told her that her consultation with the 
specialist wasnt covered because he wasnt a registered specialist, which wasnt correct. 
I see that Miss R called Westfield Health as soon as she received this letter, and the 
following day Westfield Health confirmed the claim had actually been turned down because 
she didnt have any consultation benefit remaining. Westfield Health has apologised for its 
error, and given how quickly the error was rectified, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman