DRN-1236599
 
The complaint
Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C are unhappy that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) has declined their claim under their building insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C jointly own a property which is let out to tenants. In December 2018 
they noticed some cracking to the walls. They erected scaffolding and arranged for a 
contractor to inspect the cracks who said the damage was caused by thermal expansion of 
the facia which was putting pressure on the masonry. In February 2019 they contacted NFU 
to make a claim.
NFU instructed a loss adjuster to visit the property. The loss adjusters report agreed that the 
damage was likely to have been caused by thermal movement of materials (although he also 
stated that some of the masonry may not be fully tied in to the gable wall). NFU declined to 
cover the claim as it said that the thermal movement of materials is not an insured risk under 
the policy.
Unhappy with this outcome Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C made a complaint. They said that there 
isnt an exclusion under the policy to exclude claims relating to heat damage so the claim 
should be considered. NFU maintained its stance and so the complaint was brought to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She found that the policy includes a list of 
what it will cover and because damage caused by thermal movement isnt in the list of 
covered risks, she thought NFU was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFU has declined the claim on the basis that the damage has not been caused by an 
insured risk. The issue I need to decide is whether NFU is entitled to decline the claim under 
the policy and whether its decision to do so is fair and reasonable.
No insurance policy covers each and every instance of loss or damage suffered by a 
policyholder. Such cover would be prohibitively costly. The policy therefore provides details 
of what it will cover, under what scenarios. Only damage thats caused by one of the insured 
events (known as perils) listed in the policy is covered. Its not unreasonable for an insurer 
to limit cover to certain insured perils, so long as the limits of cover are clearly and 
unambiguously set out and communicated to customers.
Both parties agree that the damage has been caused in the main by thermal movement 
which Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C believe has been as a result of extremely hot weather in the 
year leading up to the cracks being noticed. The policy taken out by Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C 
includes cover for damage caused by such events as fire, storm, theft, flood etc.  but the list 
doesnt include damage caused by heat (or thermal movement). Having looked at the policy 
wording Im satisfied that the list of covered perils is clearly explained.
Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C said that there isnt an exclusion for heat damage so NFU cant 
decline the claim. But Im afraid I dont agree. As long as the policy clearly details what it will 
cover, it only then needs to provide exclusions that relate to those insured events. As heat 
damage isnt listed as an insured peril then this isnt covered.
Im also aware that Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C have argued that, based on the types of things 
the policy says it will cover, it implies that weather related events of an extreme nature are 
included. And as they believe the damage was caused by extremely hot weather, this claim 
should be met. Ive thought about this point carefully and I can appreciate their reasoning  
the policy typically covers many weather related events such as storm and flood. However, 
I dont consider that, because the insurer has chosen to cover some weather related events, 
this means that it automatically has to accept all claims for such damage. It is down to the 
insurer to decide what it does and doesnt want to be on risk for. And as mentioned before, 
Im satisfied the policy is clear on what it does provide cover for. So, Im not persuaded NFU 
has been unreasonable by declining the claim. 
Mrs C, Miss C and Ms C have referred to the policy providing cover for fire damage and said 
that this means NFU do provide cover for thermal movement. And therefore, they dont think 
there is a difference in principle. But the difference here is the proximate cause of the 
thermal movement. The proximate cause means the active cause that sets in motion a train 
of events which resulted in the damage without anything else intervening. If the cause of the 
heat expansion was as a direct result of fire at the property then, as fire is an insured peril, 
I would agree that this should be considered. However, as the cause of this thermal 
movement is considered to be extremely warm weather, which isnt one of the covered risks 
listed under the policy, Im satisfied NFU has fairly declined the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, Miss C and 
Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman