DRN-3455797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltds (Casualty and Generals) decision to decline a claim they made under their building 
warranty policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C, and some other property owners at their housing development, have brought 
a complaint about water ingress to their properties caused by issues with the roof of their 
building. Some of the other owners have separate (but the same) complaints with our 
service. All parties are aware that what I say in this decision will also apply to the linked 
complaints bought by the other property owners. But Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs C 
specifically throughout this decision.
Mr and Mrs Cs property is part of a building which was newly converted from a disused 
listed building. The developer who carried out the conversion purchased 10-year structural 
warranties, underwritten by Casualty and General, for each of the new apartments. The 
cover provided by these warranties passed to the first owners of each unit upon the issuing 
of the pre-completion insurance certificate, for the first section of cover, and the post 
completion insurance certificate for the remaining sections. The relevant section of cover in 
this case (section 2) required the issuing of the post completion insurance certificate. In this 
respect, Mr and Mrs Cs cover started in June 2016.
Casualty and General was notified about a claim for water ingress at Mr and Mrs Cs 
property in July 2020. The claim was made by the buildings property management 
company, on behalf of the owners. The property management company provided a report on 
the condition of the roof, completed by a chartered surveyor and building engineer.
Casualty and General declined the claim on the basis that the roof didnt form part of the 
conversion and so wasnt covered by the policy. It said the issues reported were clearly long-
standing and not a result of a defect in the works of the builder during the conversion. It 
pointed to a specific exclusion in the policy excluding issues with existing works.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Theyve said that some works were carried out to the roof as part 
of the conversion and that they purchased the property, with a warranty, in good faith. 
Theyve also argued that the planning permission demonstrates that the builder ought to 
have carried out further works to the roof. So, they feel the warranty should respond to the 
issues theyve experienced. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs C didnt accept Casualty and Generals 
final response to their complaint, so they referred their complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. She explained that as the roof was not significantly repaired or replaced during 
the conversion, she didnt think the cover under the warranty extended to the roof. She also 
said the warranty only covered damage caused by a defect, as defined by the warranty 
document. She said the damage reported appeared to be as a result of wear and tear over a 
prolonged period alongside weather issues. So, she said those issues wouldnt be covered 
under the warranty, in any event.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant section of cover in this case is section 2  structural damage. This section 
provides cover for major damage caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials 
or components of the structure which impact its structural stability or watertightness.
Section 2 of the warranty document explains what Casualty and General will and wont cover 
under that section. Under the heading, What the Insurer Will Not Cover it states,
The insurer will not cover:

anything set out in the GENERAL EXCLUSIONS section of this policy
The general exclusions page contains a list of exclusions which apply to all sections of the 
warranty. Casualty and General says it relied on exclusions four and six to decline 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
4. DEFECTS IN EXISTING WORKS
Loss or damage due to or arising out of any defect in the design, workmanship, 
materials or Components of the Residential Property that was installed or 
constructed prior to the Construction Works [that are the subject of this insurance].

6. MAINTENANCE AND USE
Inadequate maintenance of or abnormal use of the Residential Property or the 
imposition of any load greater than that for which the Residential Property was 
designed or the use of the Residential Property for any purpose other than that for 
which it was designed.
Based on the above, I think its clear that the warranty isnt intended to cover works other 
than those carried out by the builder during construction (or in this case conversion).
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided on this issue. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that 
Casualty and General are responsible for covering the claim. Ill explain why.
The main expert evidence in this case is the report Mr and Mrs Cs property management 
company obtained. This report explains the extent of the issues with the roof including:slates suffering from wind lift
slates no longer attached to battens
lack of under-slate felt layer for water shedding
battens affected by dry rot due to prolonged water ingress
delaminated and broken up slates
valley gutters suffering from deflection
failed or missing mortar around ridge tiles
lead flashing trays and flashing at base of chimney in poor condition 
parapet wall trays thinned and in poor condition
holes and splits in leadwork of the front elevation
The engineer commented in his report that the roof requires major refurbishment which, in 
his opinion, should have been carried out during the conversion. This suggests that none of 
the above issues have been caused by works undertaken by the builder during the 
conversion. This view is supported by Casualty and General who have commented that, 
from the report and photos, its clear that no significant works have been undertaken to the 
roof in around 20 years.
Mr and Mrs C have argued that the planning permission for the conversion allowed for 
stripping back, inspection and minor repairs to the roof where required. So, they say some 
works to the roof were completed. And as it appears other works werent completed by the 
builder when they ought to have been, they still feel the warranty should respond.
Ive thought about this, but I dont think the fact that the builder had planning permission to 
strip back and inspect the roof, and/or to carry out any repairs which may have been 
required, means that the roof was actually worked on in this way during conversion. Instead, 
I think its clear that the vast majority of the roof wasnt worked on, based on the report and 
photos Ive seen. Casualty and General accepts that some minor patch repairs may have 
been completed, but says this work isnt sufficient enough in nature to bring the roof within 
the scope of cover. It has also highlighted that none of the water ingress issues have been 
caused by any failed patch repairs.
Ultimately, the warranty only covers damage caused by issues with the works which were 
carried out by the builder during the conversion. In the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair for me to hold Casualty and General responsible for issues 
with works which, arguably, ought to have been carried out during conversion  but werent. 
I think its also important to note that around four years passed between the conversion and 
the claim, so its possible that a lot of the issues present in 2020 may not yet have 
manifested in 2016. And this seems to have been the case, given that the building was 
signed off as watertight by the building control inspector in June 2016, and that the 
properties remained watertight for around four years from that point.
In any event, even if I were persuaded that the roof should be considered as part of the 
conversion, which Im not necessarily saying I am, the warranty only covers major damage 
caused by a defect in the works which were carried out by the builder, not in existing works. 
The evidence in this case suggests that the causes of water ingress are not as a result of a 
defect in the works completed by the builder. Rather they are primarily gradual deterioration 
issues and/or weather-related issues, which wouldnt be covered under the terms of the 
warranty in any case.I fully appreciate the fact that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, and I 
sympathise with the situation theyre in. But Im required to decide whether 
Casualty and Generals decision not to cover the claim is unfair or unreasonable. And for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it is. It therefore follows that Ill not be making any 
direction against Casualty and General in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 
Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman