DRN-3727850
The complaint
Mr W complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund disputed payments made from his 
current account. 
What happened
On 13 March 2021 a payment for £140 was made from Mr Ws current account to an online 
gambling company, he says he did not authorise this payment. Mr W says he received a 
notification from Starling that this payment had been made and so blocked his card  
preventing a further six transactions to another online gambling company that were then 
attempted. Mr W contacted Starling to say he had not authorised any of these payments.
Starling investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It said there was 
no evidence of fraud. 
As Mr W didnt agree with Starlings decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they felt it 
was more likely that Mr W had authorised the transactions. Specifically, they noted that there 
was no clear way that Mr Ws card details could have been compromised, and that the 
disputed payments were not indicative of fraud as there was no clear way for a fraudster to 
benefit from them. 
Mr W disagreed, he said that his details might have been compromised through a potentially 
fake website he used, and he also noted that a payment for £1 had again been attempted on 
his old card a year after the disputed transactions. Our investigator didnt feel that either of 
these points changed their findings.
As no informal agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out. 
Generally, Starling is able to hold Mr W liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
his account. 
So, the key question here is whether Starling has acted fairly in concluding that Mr W did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ws genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transaction and that the payment was correctly authenticated. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Starling to hold 
him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that Mr W consented to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Starling to conclude that Mr W 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The gambling account the payments were made to was in Mr Ws name, with the correct 
date of birth, address, and postcode
I cant see why a fraudster would have chosen to use Mr Ws account in this way - any 
winnings from the gambling account would have come straight back to Mr Ws Starling 
account, and if a fraudster did have access to his card details its not clear why they 
wouldnt have just spent the funds already available in Mr Ws account rather than 
carrying out gambling transactions that there was unlikely to be any benefit from 
Mr W has said he didnt have the physical bank card at the time of the disputed 
payments, but the card was sent to his home address, and activated via the Starling app. 
And only one device  Mr Ws phone  was set up on his account with the app. 
I also note that Mr W was sent a notification by Starling on 11 March 2021 to say his 
card had been activated, if Mr W hadnt received his card at that stage  and so hadnt 
activated it  then its not clear why he wouldnt have questioned this notification at the 
time.
I acknowledge what Mr W has said about how his details might have been compromised via 
a fake website, but hes not provided any evidence to show exactly what might have 
happened here. And in any case, it seems unlikely that a third party who obtained his full 
card details, home address, and birth date via a phishing attempt would then go on to use 
those details to just make some gambling transactions that they could not clearly benefit 
from. 
Ive also noted Mr Ws comments about the more recent attempted payment for £1. Mr W 
says this is proof that his card details were compromised in some way. But Starling has 
shown that this transaction was made using details held on file by the merchant, so this is 
not necessarily evidence that Mr Ws old card is being used again by a fraudster, and 
consequently this doesnt change my overall findings here.
Taking everything into account, I think, on balance, that Mr W more likely than not authorised 
the disputed payment. It follows that Starling is entitled to hold him liable for it.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman