DRN-4276049
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to 
an investment scam.
 
What happened
Ive discussed the circumstances of this case and my findings with both parties already. And 
each has had an opportunity to respond. Im issuing this final decision as Mr K agreed with 
my findings, but Wise did not. As both parties are familiar with all the circumstances, Ill only 
summarise what happened.
Mr K became caught up in an investment scam after seeing what appeared to be a 
legitimate advert online. After following the link and speaking with a scammer, who posed as 
an investment adviser, Mr K was persuaded to send money for what he believed were 
cryptocurrency investments. He opened a Wise account to facilitate these payments. 
On the first day of opening the account Mr K transferred in £25,020. He then set up five 
separate new payees (with all recipient accounts held at Wise) and made the following 
payments:
Payment number Amount
1 £4,999
2 £4,998
3 £4,997
4 £8,000
5 £2,000
 
A further payment of £5,000 was sent to another new payee three days later.
Mr K realised something was wrong when he attempted to make further payments. He found 
his Wise account had been blocked. Once he started to question why that was the scam was 
revealed and Mr K asked Wise to refund his losses.
Wise investigated but said it wouldnt provide a refund. It said itd had no reason to question 
the payments going out of Mr Ks account as it didnt think the activity was suspicious or 
unusual. It also noted that Mr K had said he was sending money to himself, rather than 
saying he was making an investment. Wise says this stopped them from being able to 
provide a written warning that more closely aligned with what he was doing. 
Wise also said that Mr K hadnt done enough to ensure the investment and the parties 
involved were genuine. 
Mr K was unhappy and so brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
upheld the complaint and said Wise ought to have intervened at payment two. She felt that 
the account activity was unusual enough that it should have given Wise cause for concern. 
She said it should have questioned the payments and, had it done so, the scam would more 
likely than not have been revealed. Having made that finding she recommended Wise refund 
Mr Ks losses from payment two onward and pay interest on that refund at 8% simple per 
year.
Wise disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
I reviewed the complaint and agreed with what the investigator said about the account 
activity and how it ought to have concerned Wise. And I agreed that it ought to refund some 
of Mr Ks losses as it didnt intervene and prevent the scam when it fairly and reasonably 
should have.
However, I also agreed with some of what Wise had said. I didnt believe that enough was 
done by Mr K to verify the legitimacy of the investment opportunity or to ensure the parties 
with whom he was dealing were genuine. I found that it would then be fair and reasonable 
for Wise and Mr K to share responsibility for the loss from payment two onwards. 
I contacted both Wise and Mr K to explain this position and what it meant for the outcome of 
the complaint. Mr K accepted the outcome. Wise didnt. 
Wise disagreed that it should have stepped in at payment two. It didnt think the transactions 
were unusual enough at that point to warrant intervention. It did, however, say it should have 
started asking questions at payment four.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what both parties have said since I contacted them about the proposed 
outcome. Mr K accepted the outcome and so theres little more to think about from his side. 
But Wise disagreed with what Ive said. So Ive thought about its objections.
The key point of disagreement concerns the stage at which Wise should have stepped in to 
question what Mr K was doing in order to protect him from financial harm through fraud. I 
have said there were enough warning signs at payment two, and that remains my view.
In reaching this outcome I have considered that Mr Ks Wise account was newly opened. 
That means Wise has little to work with in terms of past transactions on which to assess 
behaviour. That is a consideration that cuts both ways. Its not possible for payments to 
stand out as unusual against any made in the past. But similarly, payments cant look normal 
or routine if theres nothing to compare against.
I accept the nature of Wises core business is different to that of a traditional bank and 
payment behaviour may look different. But here there were signs the payments were at risk 
early on.
Mr K set up two new payees and sent nearly identical large value payments to them. When 
he chose a payment purpose he selected sending funds to yourself. Its this additional 
factor that persuades me an early intervention ought fairly and reasonably to have taken 
place. Mr K had specifically said he was sending money to himself, and Wise knew that 
wasnt true. And Mr K did that twice in quick succession. 
I find its fair and reasonable to say that Wise ought to have used all the information it had 
about the proposed payment to make its risk assessment. That includes considering the 
payment purpose and whether that is reflected in what was actually happening with the 
payment. Here that information mismatched twice, on two newly created payees, with two 
large value payments being made, and equalling almost £10,000 being sent quickly from a 
new account.
Im satisfied these factors ought to have combined to give Wise enough cause for concern 
that it ought to have paused or blocked the second payment until it could discuss further with Mr K. That intervention needed to be more than a written warning, which is why I dont 
believe the warning that was provided by Wise was enough.
Im further satisfied that intervention would have prevented any further loss to Mr K, a point 
which hasnt been disputed by Wise. Its for these reasons I find Wise ought to bear shared 
responsibility for Mr Ks loss from payment two. Thats an outcome that fairly and reasonably 
addresses both parties actions in making the payments.
Putting things right
Upon Mr Ks acceptance Wise should:
refund 50% of Mr Ks loss from payment two onward, totaling £9,997.50;
apply simple interest to that refund at 8% per year, calculated from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Wise Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman