DRN-2734047
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on his personal 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D held personal private medical insurance for many years. In 2011, he made a claim for 
pain he was suffering in his left foot. Between 2011 and July 2019, Aviva covered various 
claims related to Mr Ds foot and ankle  including surgery, injections and physiotherapy. In 
July 2019, Aviva let Mr D know that it would only provide ongoing pain management cover 
for his foot and ankle until the end of October 2019. After that date, it said it would only cover 
curative surgery. However, after Mr D appealed, it agreed to extend pain management cover 
until the end of December 2019. But it told Mr D that after that date, it would consider his 
condition to be chronic. So it maintained that after December 2019, it would only cover 
surgery which would cure Mr Ds condition.
In February 2020, Mr D saw his treating consultant, who felt that Mr D would benefit from an 
ankle arthroscopy. Aviva wrote to Mr Ds consultant to ask whether he believed the proposed 
surgery would cure Mr Ds underlying condition and if so, why. The consultant told Aviva the 
surgery would significantly improve Mr Ds ankle impingement, but he didnt suggest it would 
cure it. So Aviva maintained its position.
Mr D was unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
cancelled the policy with effect from 2 January 2020.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He considered the terms 
and conditions of the policy. He felt the terms made it clear that Aviva would only cover 
acute conditions. Based on the medical evidence hed seen, he felt itd been fair for Aviva to 
conclude that Mr Ds condition had become chronic and to decline to cover the surgery.
Mr D disagreed. He responded to the investigator in detail and Ive summarised his main 
points. He set out the history of his ankle and foot problems and some of the treatment hed 
received. He felt Aviva hadnt taken a holistic view on his cover following an MRI scan hed 
had in September 2019  itd taken a financial decision to cut off his cover. Hed only 
recently sustained soft tissue damage and this couldnt have been given the ability to heal 
without the arthroscopy surgery. He felt that Aviva shouldve made it clear that he needed to 
organise the surgery by the end of December 2019. He said hed pushed himself to 
strengthen his ankle through physio during this period and that if hed had the surgery during 
that time, it wouldve been covered. He said hed declared his medical conditions when he 
took out the policy and Aviva surely had modelling available to map the likely progression of 
his condition. Itd agreed to cover him despite being aware of the potential risks. Aviva had 
stopped responding to him after early March 2020. He was eventually able to have the 
surgery on the NHS in October 2020  but he was left in pain for around a year and was also 
prescribed anti-depressant medication. He feels that Aviva should pay him compensation for 
his pain and distress and also that it should refund him the premiums hed paid it for the last 
six months of cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down 
his claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr D that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his submissions, Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said and sent us. In 
this decision though, I wont comment on each of the point hes raised. Instead, Ill focus on 
what I think are the key issues.
As the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ds policy and the available medical 
evidence to decide whether Aviva handled his claim fairly.
Ive first looked closely at the terms of Mr Ds policy, as these form the basis of his contract 
with Aviva. The policy says:
This policy covers treatment of acute conditions. It does not cover chronic conditions.
An acute condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you were in immediately before 
suffering from it, or which leads to your full recovery. 
The policy states that it covers eligible treatment  which is treatment of an acute condition. 
Aviva has also defined what it means by a chronic condition. The policy says:
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,
check-ups and/or tests;
it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms;
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it;
it continues indefinitely;
it has no known cure;
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Aviva concluded, in July 2019, that Mr Ds condition had become chronic. And it was at this 
point that it let him know that it would no longer be providing any further cover for it  initially 
after October 2019  and ultimately, after December 2019, unless it was for curative surgery. 
So Ive looked at the available evidence to decide if this was a reasonable conclusion for 
Aviva to draw.
Its clear from the medical evidence and Avivas records that Mr D underwent a variety of 
treatment and consultations with specialist doctors for his foot and ankle condition between 
2011 and 2019, which Aviva paid for. I can see that Mr D underwent an ankle procedure in 
2014 to reshape his lateral talonavicular joint and had follow-up physiotherapy. In 2015, 
Aviva covered Mr D for further physiotherapy. In 2016, it covered Mr D for a pain 
management injection into his ankle and in 2017, it paid for Mr D to undergo an ankle-fusion operation and follow-up physiotherapy. Again in 2018, it covered the cost of Mr D 
undergoing further physiotherapy. And in 2019, it covered further physiotherapy and pain 
management. So Im satisfied that Aviva covered Mr Ds condition over several years  
including two ankle/foot surgeries  and paid for a number of physiotherapy and other pain 
management options to try and restore Mr D to health. Like the investigator, I think Aviva 
acted reasonably in accepting cover over such a prolonged period, given the evidence 
suggests that the condition was ongoing in nature. And I think, based on the evidence 
available and the long-term nature of the treatment, that it was reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude, in July 2019, that Mr Ds ankle and foot condition was chronic. I also think it was 
more than fair for Aviva to extend cover for pain management until December 2019.
In February 2020, Mr Ds treating consultant wrote to his GP to explain why he felt that Mr D 
would benefit from an anterior ankle arthroscopy. The consultant stated that there was ankle 
spur formation which was contributing to the block in Mr Ds dorsiflexion. He felt treating this 
would enable Mr D to be able to stretch his Achilles more. The letter said that the ankle 
impingement wasnt really part of the chronic problem and that the consultant: certainly 
wasnt planning anything further surgically for his ankle after this.
Ive thought carefully about this letter, which was also sent on to Aviva because the 
consultant seemed to indicate that the surgery wasnt linked to Mr Ds chronic problem, 
although it does tally-up with Avivas earlier conclusion that Mr Ds condition was at least 
partly chronic. Avivas notes show that in response to this letter, it wrote to Mr Ds consultant 
to ask whether the surgery would cure Mr Ds underlying condition, after so many years of 
treatment, andtherefore be certain that this (would be) the last surgery required. I think 
this was an appropriate course of action for Aviva to take. I say that because if the 
consultant felt the surgery would be curative, then it would likely restore Mr D to the state of 
health he was in immediately before he developed the condition. This would accordingly 
mean that the surgery wouldve appeared to be eligible treatment,
The consultant replied to Aviva and Ive seen a copy of that letter. He said: I can confirm 
that the arthroscopy will significantly improve his ankle impingement, and that after this, no 
further surgery is required. Based on this response, Aviva maintained its position and Ive 
considered whether I think it did so fairly. It seems to me that while the consultant felt the 
surgery would improve Mr Ds condition, he didnt say it would cure it. And he also didnt 
suggest that Mr D wouldnt require any further treatment in the future for the condition either. 
So I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to conclude that the surgery wasnt curative and 
therefore didnt meet its definitions of eligible treatment or acute condition. This means then 
that I think, based on the medical evidence it had available, it was fair for Aviva to turn down 
Mr Ds claim for the proposed surgery.
Mr D has provided evidence from his consultant and physiotherapist which show that the 
surgery he had on the NHS eight months later was successful in treating his condition and 
Im very pleased to hear that its had such a positive outcome. Im also sorry to hear about 
the pain Mr D was in and the impact of the delay in the surgery on his mental health. But as I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the medical evidence it had available in February 
2020 to turn down the claim, it follows that I dont think I could fairly direct Aviva to pay Mr D 
any compensation. Thats because I dont think it did anything wrong which it needs to put 
right.
Additionally, Mr D also raised several points about Avivas initial decision to offer him cover; 
its failure to communicate fairly with him and the fact he paid for cover between December 
2019 and July 2020 which he feels was worthless. However, none of these issues appear to 
have been raised with Aviva previously and so it doesnt seem its had the chance to look 
into any complaint about them. Im not able to look into complaint points which a financial 
business hasnt had the opportunity to investigate and respond to. So if Mr D wants Aviva to look into these specific concerns, hell need to raise them directly with it first before were 
potentially able to look into them. I need to make it clear though that we wont look any 
further into Avivas decision not to cover Mr Ds surgery as part of any new complaint he may 
bring.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman