DRN-2642879
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D made a claim under her car insurance policy following an incident in November 2019. 
Mrs D said another driver collided into the back of her car as she was waiting for a bus to 
pull out from a bus stop ahead of her.
In December 2020 AXA told Mrs D it had received a statement from a witness saying Mrs D 
had reversed into the other vehicle in order to overtake the bus. So AXA said it would need 
to investigate further.
Mrs D was very unhappy about the length of time it had taken for this to come to light and 
believes the information is fraudulent. Mrs D complained to AXA.
AXA said as it had received further information it was right to investigate it to ensure the 
correct decision was reached regarding liability. But it said it had failed to progress the claim 
for nine months since receiving the witness statement. For this poor service, it paid Mrs D 
£200 compensation. 
Mrs D remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted reasonably in continuing to investigate the claim in 
light of new information. But she thought AXA should pay Mrs D a further £100 for its poor 
service and delay. 
AXA didnt reply to the investigators view. Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer has properly investigated a claim and whether its reached a decision in a reasonable 
way. We also look at what the policy says. Mrs Ds policy with AXA has a very common term 
which says it can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means AXA might 
make a decision Mrs D doesnt agree with, but the policy allows AXA to do this. 
I note that the witness statement AXA received was dated a month after the incident. AXA 
accepts that it had received the statement some nine months before, but had failed to act on 
it. This is poor service by AXA and means it caused unnecessary delay. 
Where liability is disputed, claims tend to take longer to settle. And while a claim is open, it is 
treated as a fault claim. Mrs D is unhappy that her premium has gone up since the incident. 
However, while the claim is still being investigated AXA has correctly recorded the claim. 
When the claim is settled, AXA will need to update the claim according to how liability was 
decided. 
So I think its reasonable for AXA to continue to investigate the claim as its obliged to do 
when it receives new information. 
I think the £200 compensation AXA paid for its poor service and delay goes some way to 
compensate Mrs D. AXA accepts that it failed to progress the claim when it received the 
witness statement. I can understand Mrs Ds upset when this came to light over a year after 
the incident. I think AXA should have acted much sooner and should have kept Mrs D 
updated of developments with the claim. So I agree with the investigators recommendation 
for AXA to pay Mrs D a further £100 compensation. I think this is fair and in line with awards 
we give for similar cases.
So I uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs D £100 compensation in addition to the £200 its 
already paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay and poor service. 
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs D accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman