DRN-3907861
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr M met with JLT in 2009 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr M did this after 
he received information from his employer that the DB scheme had funding problems. One 
of the options given to Mr M was to transfer away, it offered a financial incentive if Mr M did 
this. 
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
This shows that he was 48 years old, recently divorced and had children. Mr M was 
employed full time and owned his own home which was subject to an outstanding mortgage. 
He had savings of around £10,000 and investments of £2,000.
In respect of his pension arrangements, he had been a member of his employers DB 
scheme for 21 years. The scheme had ceased to accrue further benefits in 2009 and Mr M 
was now a deferred member. The transfer value would normally be £91,006. Due to the 
funding situation with the scheme this was currently reduced to £88,890. Mr Ms employer 
said that Mr M could take £10,116 as cash incentive and a transfer value of £81,890. This is 
the option Mr M took. 
The DB scheme would pay Mr M a guaranteed income of £6,200 a year at the time of 
advice. The suitability letter says this would be revalued to around £9,500 at Mr Ms age 65.  
Mr M also had a personal pension with a fund value of around £20,000. And he was a 
member of his employers new Group Personal Pension scheme into which he and his 
employer contributed 18% of his salary each month. 
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said was balanced to 
adventurous. It was noted that he had some investment knowledge and experience, but that 
he wasnt an experienced investor.  
In June 2009, JLT advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and 
invest the proceeds half in the new providers Global Equity fund and half in its Managed 
fund. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to: 
Remove the uncertainty that the DB scheme faced due to its funding issues.
Take advantage of the financial incentive to help pay for his daughters wedding.
Provide overall flexibility and control over his pension fund.
Improve on the death benefits that his estate would receive. 
Mr M complained in 2021 to JLT about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that he 
had noticed that colleagues who had not transferred had better retirement benefits. And 
having looked at the transfer documentation he now thought he had lost out due to the 
transfer. 
JLT didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it was established, and agreed, that Mr M had a 
higher attitude to risk. It also looked into his circumstances in detail at the time of sale, and it 
thought the advice it gave was suitable for him. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that JLT pay compensation. She said that whilst the transfer looked like it 
could have been financially viable, she wasnt persuaded that Mr M had the capacity to risk 
what was his main pension provision so far. It also looked like the funding situation with the 
scheme would be resolved soon and Mr M didnt seem to have a pressing need for cash. So, 
he didnt need to transfer for these reasons. Overall, she didnt think the transfer was 
suitable. 
JLT disagreed, saying that the required critical yield was higher than the discount rate 
(assuming he took tax free cash) and so it was likely that Mr M would receive higher benefits 
from the transfer. It said the Investigator had ignored that Mr M was a member of his 
employers defined contribution (DC) scheme. It projected that Mr M would build up a fund of 
around £131,000 in this, so, he had the capacity to risk his DB scheme benefits. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
JLT carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Mr M was 48 at the time of the advice and, whilst he wanted to retire early, he realistically 
thought he would retire at age 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 
65 was 6.3% if he took a full pension and 5.4% if he took tax free cash and a reduced 
pension. The same calculations for Mr Ms age 60 were 7% and 5.8%. These were all based 
on Mr M taking the cash incentive and transferring to a personal pension which is what he 
did. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) 
at age 65 was quoted as 4% per year if Mr M took a full pension and 3.8% per year if he took 
tax free cash and a reduced pension.
There were other calculations that showed the situation if Mr M didnt take the cash incentive 
(and transferred the full amount) or transferred to a Section 32 policy. Ive not reproduced all 
of these, partly as they are similar, and also, they dont reflect the choice Mr M made. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
This was 7% per year for 16 years to retirement (his age 65) and 6.7% for the nine years to 
his age 60. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rate was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
attitude to risk and the term to retirement. 
Mr Ms attitude to risk was recorded as being adventurous. But he indicated that he wanted 
to invest half in adventurous investments and half in balanced funds, for this pension. Both 
attitudes to risk were broadly described as being suitable for someone wanting to take a 
significant risk with their money in order to provide a better return. Albeit to a lower degree 
for the balanced investor. 
When someone has a high attitude to risk, I would expect them to have, or have had, 
significant investment experience. But this doesnt seem to be the case here. Mr M had a 
small investment at the time and there is no indication he had invested before in higher risk 
areas. Theres nothing else that shows he was comfortable with higher risk investments. So, Im not persuaded that his attitude to risk was as high as JLT recorded, I think it was likely to 
be much lower than this. 
And even if Mr M ordinarily did have a higher attitude to risk, with some knowledge and 
experience of investments, JLT needed to ensure he wanted to take this risk with his 
pension planning. This is because the DB scheme would provide a significant amount of 
guaranteed and increasing income. Mr M would have no means of replacing this income if it 
was lost, or very much reduced. 
So, Mr Ms capacity to risk this pension should reasonably be thought to be lower. Im not 
persuaded he had the capacity to take a significant risk with this part of his pension planning. 
His circumstances lead me to think it wasnt appropriate for JLT to advise him to do this. 
JLT says that Mr M would have built up a significant fund in his employers DC scheme so he 
could afford to take some risk with his DB scheme benefits. But if he was building up a fund 
that was subject to investment risk then he would be gaining many of the advantages that 
this type of arrangement can have. Which would mean he would have no need to subject his 
DB scheme benefits to the same risk. 
That said, it is reasonable to assume Mr M could take some risk, and he did have around 16 
years till he would take his pension benefits. The discount rate here was 7%, and this 
matched the rate that JLT said it also used as a benchmark to see if a transfer was 
appropriate. Here, the highest critical yield was 7%, but I can see that in much of the 
circumstances they are lower than this. Which does indicate that Mr M may have been able 
to replicate the benefits from the DB scheme. 
There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And I think 
the situation is less clear cut if Mr M wanted to significantly improve on the benefits he was 
giving up, given his lower attitude and capacity for risk. I dont think it was in Mr Ms best 
interest to transfer just on the basis that the transfer may produce better benefits, as this 
wasnt certain, or even likely in some circumstances. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And I 
think in this case there needed to be another genuine reason for the transfer to make it 
suitable. Ive considered if this was the case below.
Flexibility and income needs
JLT has said that one of the main reasons it recommended the transfer was for the 
increased flexibility it could provide. Mr M could decide when he took his DB scheme 
benefits but he couldnt, for example, take some tax free cash and take an income at a later 
date. He had to take a pension, and any tax free cash he wanted, at the same time. 
Mr M has said that he didnt really envisage having a need for cash at retirement given his 
mortgage would be paid off and he already had some savings. It was recorded that he would 
use the incentive to perhaps pay for his daughters wedding. But hes said wanting to do this 
was more of a passing comment than a genuine need. 
It wasnt recorded what income Mr M would need in retirement. This isnt unreasonable 
given how far away this was, but it does make it difficult to now say if the advice Mr M 
received met his needs.Under the DB scheme, Mr M was entitled to an annual income of around £9,500 a year from 
age 65. He would also have his state pension a few years later which would typically provide 
around £9,000 a year.  
And Mr M was a member of his employers new DC scheme. As JLT has said he would 
possibly have a fund of around £130,000 at Mr Ms retirement. And this would add to his own 
personal pension of £20,000.
So, whilst I cant say with certainty that Mr Ms income needs would be met by the DB 
scheme, as it wasnt established what they were, Mr M would have an income from the DB 
scheme and his state pension which was guaranteed and increasing. This could form the 
core of his retirement income to cover his expenditure when he had stopped working. Hed 
have the DC scheme benefits to increase this income, or to use flexibly if required. So, Im 
satisfied Mr M was likely to have met his income needs in retirement through his existing 
arrangements. 
Overall, I dont think Mr M required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. Hes 
said he didnt want to do this. I also cant see evidence that Mr M had a strong need for 
variable income throughout his retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
And I dont think the incentive, and Mr Ms plans for it were a good enough reason to transfer 
on their own. JLT should have looked at other ways Mr M could fund his daughters wedding, 
if this is really what he wanted to do. 
Lastly, Mr M was only 48 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he didnt 
have concrete retirement plans. As Mr M had around 16 years before he would think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. 
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr M later had a 
reason to transfer out of their DB scheme, he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Mr M indicated on the fact find that his dependents would already receive significant 
amounts on his death. And so, providing a further lump sum wasnt a priority for him. 
That said, death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think JLT explored to what 
extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
wasnt married and the financial situation around how he and his ex wife supported their 
children wasnt explored at all. But the dependents pension provided by the DB scheme 
may have been useful to his dependents if Mr M predeceased them. I dont think JLT made 
the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, JLT should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think JLT 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr M did have some concerns about the stability of the DB scheme. However, the scheme 
had recently told Mr M that whilst it was underfunded by a few percent, it did believe that this 
would be rectified a very short time after the advice. 
So, I think its reasonable to say that the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a 
position such that Mr M should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his 
pension. 
Suitability of investments
JLT recommended that Mr M invest in two higher risk funds. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr 
M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But JLT 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, it was possible that Mr M could 
obtain lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr M shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme just to gain the financial incentive, even if he had a use for this. 
And the potential for flexibility and higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against JLT's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ms retirement 
provision. So, if JLT had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about the scheme, or the existence of the incentive, 
would have led to him insisting on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If JLT 
had explained that Mr M could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for JLTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requireJLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman