DRN-3584681
The complaint
Mrs X has complained about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD (PEX). She isnt happy about 
the way it cancelled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs X looked to take out car insurance through PEX towards the end of April 2021 which 
was due to commence on 1 May 2021. However, before the policy started PEX looked to 
increase the cost of the premium so Mrs X emailed to cancel the policy and took out 
insurance elsewhere. 
PEX didnt cancel the policy at that time or when Mrs X let them know in June 2021 that she 
had cancelled the policy and taken out insurance with another insurer. PEX went on to try 
and cancel the policy itself in November 2021 in relation to non-payment. This was because 
Mrs X stopped payment and did a charge back through her bank for payments made. So, 
PEX looked to recover its charges, cancellation fee and time on cover. When Mrs X 
complained to PEX about this it maintained its position, so she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her and initially upheld her complaint as she was 
satisfied that Mrs X had cancelled her policy before it commenced and taken out cover 
elsewhere. But when PEX provided further evidence this suggested that a call took place on 
4 May 2021 in which Mrs X said she would call PEX back after discussing the policy with her 
husband, so our investigator changed her position. She said that PEX acted reasonably, 
following the call of 4 May 2021, leaving the insurance in place. But the investigator thought 
PEX should have cancelled the policy in June 2021 when Mrs X contacted it again outlining 
that she thought shed cancelled the policy. So, our investigator thought PEX should only 
charge for time on cover until June 2021 and that it was entitled to charge a cancellation fee.
As Mrs X didnt agree, maintaining that she had cancelled the policy and taken out cover 
with another insurer on 30 April 2021, the matter has been passed to me for review.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, and subject to any further representations that I receive, I think the 
complaint should be upheld in full. Ill explain why.
I know that PEX feel that Mrs X decided to remain on cover following a call on 4 May 2021 
and, having listened to the call, I agree that Mrs X suggested she would call back. However, 
PEX has highlighted itself that Mrs X had already said she was cancelling the policy in an 
email a few days before. And by the time of this call she had already taken out cover 
elsewhere as she wasnt happy that PEX had increased her premium without communicating 
with her. So, having listened to this call I think that Mrs X wanted to cancel her policy but 
didnt want to pay PEXs fees as the policy hadnt started and the premium had increased.
Indeed, when Mrs X said again that she had cancelled her policy in June 2021 PEX didnt 
action the cancellation again for a second time. This led to a drawn-out process in which Mrs 
X was forced to do a chargeback through her bank account and then PEX said it was 
cancelling her policy.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for PEX to waive all administration and cancellation charges, refund the deposit 
and policy costs incurred and write off any outstanding balance. I say this as Mrs X was 
insured elsewhere and, as PEX said in response to this Service, Mrs X contacted us on 30th 
April 2021 to request cancellation which is what should have happened. Furthermore, I think 
it should pay Mrs X £100 in compensation for the clear worry and stress all this has caused 
her and ensure that any cancellation markers are removed.  
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mrs X said again she asked PEX to cancel 
her policy before cover was due to start and that she took out insurance elsewhere. And that 
PEX deliberately ignored her original and subsequent request to cancel her policy. She 
didnt feel there was any justifiable excuse for the stress it caused her and for continually 
taking money from her for months for a service she had rejected and didnt need as she was 
insured elsewhere.
Ultimately, she didnt think any business should be allowed to treat their customers in an 
unprofessional and underhand way. Mrs X said she just hoped PEX would see reason and 
do the right thing by handing back any money they held from her so she could put this 
matter behind her and move on with her life. 
While PEX said there were various discrepancies in Mrs Xs account of events. It says Mrs X 
was due to call back after speaking to her husband but didnt do so. And it questions why 
she didnt say she had cancelled the policy during this call if that is what she had done. And 
PEX goes on to ask why Mrs X paid her monthly premium by direct debit if she had taken 
out cover elsewhere, which leads PEX to believe that Mrs X knew she was on cover.
PEX also says it should be entitled to charge its cancellation fee. This is because it feels the 
email Mrs X sent wasnt set in stone and that the follow up call (discussed above) meant 
the policy wasnt cancelled. And asks for an explanation as to why any cancellation charges 
would be invalid. It says Mrs X was made aware of the cancellation charges and agreed to 
them and these cant be waived.
PEX stands by its initial view that the cancellation date should be taken from June 2021 and 
that time on cover and cancellation charges should apply. And at worst, if it accepted the 
provisional decision, then Mrs X should pay the cancellation fee.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having again considered everything in full I still think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, 
in the particular circumstances of this case, is to uphold the complaint.I know PEX maintain that Mrs X knew she was on cover through the policy she arranged 
with PEX and suggests she paid her direct debits on this basis. But Im satisfied that she 
tried to cancel her policy, which PEX accepts, in her email before the policy commenced as 
she had taken out insurance elsewhere (which Ive seen evidence of). And so, it seems to 
me, that Mrs X didnt realise the policy with PEX hadnt cancelled and that it had taken 
premiums from her. So, when she realised premiums were still being taken she did a charge 
back as she was insured elsewhere throughout the period.
As Ive outlined I listened to the call and I accept that Mrs X said she would call back. But the 
focus of the call moved to talk about PEXs charges and increased costs which Mrs X didnt 
want to pay (as PEX had increased its costs without discussion with Mrs X). And when Mrs 
X emailed to cancel (which PEX didnt action or follow up on) the policy hadnt started, and it 
wasnt clear to Mrs X why the policy cost had increased. Indeed, Mrs X said she had 
discussed her no claims discount (NCD), which was at the maximum level allowed by her 
previous insurer, with PEX previously and been told that it wouldnt affect things in a 
separate telephone call with PEX. I note that PEX havent provided copies of any other calls 
it had with Mrs X, including the call Mrs X made earlier the same day when she was chasing 
the cancellation of her policy and was promised a call back.
But what is important in this case is that Mrs X had contacted PEX, before the policy 
commenced, to say she wanted to cancel the policy. She emailed before the policy started 
and said I do not wish to proceed with your insurance cover due to what I perceive to be 
deliberate misleading of customers. I am very upset with the way your company has handled 
my insurance therefore I have decided to get my Insurance from another Insurer. And I dont 
know why PEX didnt cancel the policy or follow this up with Mrs X at the time or why it took 
Mrs X to chase matters. 
However, I think Mrs Xs intention was clear and Im satisfied that she wanted to cancel her 
policy at the time of emailing, especially as she took out insurance elsewhere. And as PEX 
didnt action this she had to call to chase, but the call went on to discuss the charges and 
cancellation fees that PEX proposed instead of finalising the cancellation. Plus, she asked to 
speak to a manager about how she had been treated but this wasnt facilitated by the call 
taker.
Given all of this, Im satisfied that Mrs X wanted to cancel the policy before it started as she 
clearly emailed and called PEX about this when it didnt respond and, importantly, she had 
taken out insurance elsewhere. I know PEX feels it is entitled to charge the cancellation fee, 
but I dont think it dealt with Mrs Xs cancellation request very well. I would have expected 
PEX to respond to her initial email request; to call back as arranged; to allow her to speak to 
a manager when she asked to; and to deal with her second cancellation request in June 
promptly. Plus, I dont think it is clear why the premium increased when Mrs X provided 
maximum NCD. So, I think it is only fair for PEX to waive its cancellation charge here. 
Finally, I remain of the view that PEX should pay Mrs X £100 in compensation for all the 
stress all this has caused her. I say this as it didnt deal with her request for cancellation very 
well both before the policy was taken out and after. Plus, it didnt cancel Mrs Xs policy in 
June when it was clearly aware that Mrs X was insured elsewhere. And all this led to 
threatening debt collection letters and threats of court action which was clearly worrying for 
Mrs X. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require POLICY 
EXCESS INSURE LTD to waive all administration and cancellation charges, refund the deposit and policy costs incurred and write off any outstanding balance. And it should pay 
Mrs X £100 compensation and ensure any cancellation markers are removed.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman