DRN-2378778
The complaint
Mr C complains via his representative, Ms C, regarding a decision by Ageas Insurance
Limited (Ageas) to reject his claim for damage to his roof. 
Mr C wants Ageas to pay his claim.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr Cs area was affected by a storm and some tiles and mortar blew off
his roof.
Ms C contacted Ageas shortly afterwards and initiated a claim. She had arranged for a
roofing contractor to attend Mr Cs property and to undertake the work. Ms C stated that she
was going to have the work done in any event.
Ms C agreed with Ageas that Ms Cs contractor should take photographs of the damage and
the repair and provide these to Ageas.
Ms Cs contractor undertook repairs to the tiles and mortar on the end of the roof. The 
contractor required scaffolding to undertake the work. The repair cost £1053.88, which Ms C 
paid.
Ms C and her contractor provided photographs of the damage and repair to Ageas to
support Mr Cs claim.
In late February 2020, Ageas wrote to Mr C, rejecting his claim. Ageas said it considered
that the damage was not caused by the storm and was instead a matter of poor
maintenance. Ageas said that it had contacted Ms Cs contractor and that he had confirmed
that the roof was not in a good state of repair when he had attended.
Ms C did not accept this decision and requested transcripts of any calls between Ageas and
the roofing contractor. Ageas provided this.
The transcript showed that during the call between Ageas and the roofing contractor, the 
roofing contractor had agreed that the roof was old, but he did not say that the roof was in 
poor condition. He said that in his view the lost tiles and the missing mortar from the end wall
were both caused by the storm.
Ms C challenged Ageas decision.
Ageas sent a further decision letter. It accepted that the roofing contractor had not said that
the roof was not in good condition. Ageas stated, however, that the photographs showed
that the damage was largely pre-existing and that the storm had merely highlighted the
damage. Ageas repeated its decision to reject the claim.
Mr C was not happy and contacted us.
One of our investigators has considered this matter and set out her view to the parties. This
was that Ageas had not treated Mr C fairly and that Ageas should reconsider the claim.
Ageas made some further submissions, which did not alter the investigators view. Ageas did
not accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I set out my provisional decision on this matter to the parties in October 2020. In that 
decision I explained that I thought the complaint should be upheld, and that Ageas should 
pay the claim. I invited comments from both parties. 
Ms C, on behalf of Mr C, has indicated that Mr C accepts my provisional decision. 
Ageas has received and acknowledged the provisional decision and has not provided any 
comments in response to the provisional decision. Ageas asked if Mr C had accepted the 
decision, so it could arrange settlement, so I have assumed Ageas does not wish to make 
further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis that neither party has made any submissions in response to my provisional 
view, I have not altered by view and adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final 
decision.
 
Putting things right
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think that Ageas should pay Mr Cs claim in full, 
along with interest on the sum from the date Mr C made payment to his roofing contractor up 
until the date of settlement. 
I also considered that the handling of this claim caused Mr C significant distress and 
inconvenience, and that Ageas should pay compensation to him of £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Ageas 
Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr C the claim value of £1053.88;
to pay to Mr C interest on the claim at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of his 
payment to the contractor up until settlement; 
pay to Mr C £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman