DRN-4405665
The complaint
Mr S complains that the advice Davies Craddock gave him to transfer out of his defined 
benefit (DB) pension wasnt suitable.
Professional representatives have brought this complaint on Mr S behalf. But for ease of 
reading, I'll refer to the representatives comments and actions as being Mr S.
What happened
Mr S was a member of his former employers DB pension scheme from about 1966 
until around 1989.
In 1990, Davies Craddock, (a company that Mr S had already had some dealings 
with) offered to review his pension arrangements. 
According to the information that Mr S has given us (Davies Craddock hasnt given us its 
business file relating to the advice), his circumstances at the time of the advice were: 
He was 39 years old and was married with one child.
He and his wife were both in good health.
He owned his own home and had an outstanding mortgage of around £11,000.
He had no savings.
Death benefits available through his DB pension were important to him. 
He wasnt willing to take any risks with his pension (his only retirement provision) and 
following a transfer, his pension funds were only to be used to support his retirement. 
The adviser recommended that Mr S transfer his DB pension to a personal (with profits) 
pension with a company Ill refer to as R (the pension was initially transferred to a different 
company and R later became responsible for the policy). But Mr S says that Davies 
Craddock didnt discuss the risks and benefits with him. He says he went ahead with the 
transfer because the adviser said hed be able to retire at age 55 when his DB schemes 
normal retirement age was 65. 
In February 1999, Davies Craddock wrote to Mr S to invite him to take part in an industry 
wide review the pensions review set up by the regulator. It sent a further letter about this in 
March 1999. Mr S says he didnt receive the letters as they were sent to a previous address. 
Mr S says he spoke to a former colleague in late 2021 about their respective pension 
entitlements. Mr S colleague who had remained in the DB scheme, was receiving more in 
pension benefits than Mr S was entitled to from his personal pension. This alerted him to the 
fact that the transfer advice might not have been suitable for him. He also saw an advert in 
early 2022 about pension mis-selling and sought professional advice. Through his 
representative, Mr S asked Davies Craddock to review the sale of the policy.
It responded in July 2022. In summary, it said that Mr S hadnt notified it of a change of 
address, so it sent pension review letters in February and March 1999 to his last known 
address in line with the regulators guidelines. Davies Craddock said it was unable to deal 
with Mr S complaint. 
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service later in 2022, as he wasnt happy 
with Davies Craddocks response. In reply to our requests for information, Davies Craddock 
said the complaint had been made too late. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint and gave her opinion about whether Mr S had made it in time. She concluded that 
he had. Davies Craddock disputed the Investigators findings, so the matter came to me to 
decide. I also decided that Mr S had made his complaint in time, so I said it was one that we 
could consider. Our Investigator then went on to consider the merits of Mr S complaint. As 
we still dont have Davies Craddocks business file relating to the advice, she based her 
assessment largely on the information Mr S gave us. She said: 
She didnt have evidence to suggest that Davies Craddock produced the documents 
typically required with advice about a DB transfer.
In the absence of such documents, she couldnt be satisfied that Davies Craddocks 
advice met Mr S objectives and that he could withstand the risks associated with 
transferring.
She wasnt persuaded the pension transfer was in Mr S best interests. Whilst 
recognising that potentially retiring at age 55 was a nice thought the Investigator 
wasnt satisfied that was reason enough for Mr S to transfer the valuable benefits 
from his DB pension. 
The Investigator set out her recommendations about how Davies Craddock should put things 
right.
Davies Craddock didnt agree. It said it was involved in a similar situation in 2010, which also 
led to a complaint being made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It said the Ombudsman 
involved in that case concluded that the complaint hadnt been made in time. It asked for the 
decision in Mr S case to be reconsidered and said it expected the complaint to be thrown 
out in line with previous guidelines. The matter has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Davies Craddocks strength of feeling and note its further comments about 
why it believes this isnt a complaint we should look into. Ive already sent it and Mr S a 
separate decision explaining why Im satisfied we have the authority to look into Mr S 
complaint. And in the absence of any new information or evidence from Davies Craddock, 
nothing its said causes me to change my mind about that. 
However, given Davies Craddocks comments about other similar situations and decisions 
issued by the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2010, I will say here that my role is to assess 
the evidence in relation to this specific complaint. I cant comment on other situations or 
decisions that Davies Craddock might think are similar to this. So, as Ive already determined 
why we have authority to look into Mr S complaint and I havent been given any new 
information or evidence suggesting otherwise, Im not going to review that decision further. 
Ill therefore focus on the merits of Mr S complaint here.  
Davies Craddock hasnt given us its business file concerning the advice it gave to Mr S back 
in 1990. But Im satisfied weve given it sufficient time and opportunity to do so and have 
responded to its communications on the matter. Mr S has given us his recollections, which provide helpful context to his personal circumstances at the time of the advice. However, in 
the absence of all of the information and evidence Id generally expect to see in a case like 
this, it naturally makes things more difficult to determine. So, where necessary, Ive based 
my opinions on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
What was Davies Craddock required to do?
In her assessment, our Investigator pointed to the more recent regulations and guidance in 
place concerning DB transfers and referred to the regulator as the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Its worth saying here that the regulatory framework has changed over time as 
have the organisations responsible for financial regulation. At the time of this advice, around 
1990, it was actually the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (Lautro) and 
the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA) which 
were responsible for regulating advising firms. And whilst its not clear which specific 
regulator Davies Craddock came under, I understand that both gave broadly similar advice 
in relation to DB transfers. Further, although the regulators guidance has been further 
developed over time, the underlying principles are largely unchanged from when Davies 
Craddock gave Mr S advice in 1990. 
Those include that firms giving advice to transfer out of DB schemes needed to ensure that 
they took reasonable steps to gather information about their clients personal and financial 
circumstances. That was to help ensure their advice was suitable and genuinely in the 
consumers best interests. The guidance also suggested that the majority of consumers 
would be better off by remaining in their DB scheme. So thats the backdrop against which 
Ive considered whether Davies Craddock acted fairly and reasonably and gave suitable 
advice in Mr S particular case. 
Was Davies Craddocks advice suitable?
As Ive mentioned, Davies Craddock hasnt provided any documentation which shows the 
basis upon which it made its recommendation for Mr S to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
That means I havent seen anything which sets out its analysis of the advantages and 
disadvantages of investing in a personal pension against remaining in the DB scheme. 
Mr S recalls that one of the advantages Davies Craddock mentioned to him was that hed be 
able to retire at age 55 when the normal scheme retirement age for his DB pension was 65. I 
have no reason to disbelieve Mr S recollection here. And I can certainly appreciate why the 
prospect of retiring ten years earlier would be enticing for anyone. But that needed to be 
considered in the context of Mr S wider circumstances and financial position. 
At the time of this advice, Mr S wasnt even forty years of age. So, its not clear to me why he 
needed to do anything with his pension at that point. And even if he was intent on retiring at 
age 55 based on what Davies Craddock told him, that was still around 15 years away. 
Circumstances can and do change in a period of 15 years. So, even if this was a key factor 
in Davies Craddock believing its advice was suitable, at best, I think it should have said it 
would be in Mr S best interests to leave his guaranteed DB scheme funds untouched and 
revisit the position as he approached age 55. And at that point he could decide if a transfer 
was in his best interests. Mr S had no reason to make that decision when he was still many 
years from retirement. 
On top of that, Davies Craddock ought to have known that DB pensions included very 
valuable guarantees. And Mr S has told us that his DB pension was his only pension 
provision. So, I think there would need to be fairly compelling reasons for Davies Craddock to recommend he transfer out of his DB scheme. In the absence of any evidence to show 
that, its difficult to see what those compelling reasons were.
Mr S has also indicated he wasnt prepared to take any risk with his pension. Therefore, a 
secure DB pension that was subject to regular increases and wasnt exposed to the 
volatilities and risks associated with investment performance would seem more suited to 
him. I also need to think about Mr S capacity to absorb any investment losses. Mr S said he 
didnt have any savings to fall back on should his investments not perform as expected. So, 
that would seem another factor in favour of staying in the DB scheme. That being the case, 
again, in the absence of further evidence to suggest otherwise, its difficult to see why 
Davies Craddock felt transferring to a personal pension was in Mr S best interests and was 
therefore a better option for him. So, I dont think Davies Craddocks advice to transfer his 
safeguarded benefits from his DB Scheme to a personal pension was in Mr S best interests. 
And, on balance, I think Mr S would have remained in his DB scheme had he received 
suitable advice. I say this because Ive seen no evidence to indicate that Mr S had any 
specific financial knowledge or expertise. I think a recommendation not to transfer this DB 
pension, along with a well-reasoned explanation why not would have been persuasive for Mr 
S. He sought Davies Craddocks expertise in this area, and in the same way he trusted its 
recommendation to transfer, I think he would similarly have followed advice not to. Mr S had  
no immediate or pressing objective that required this transfer, and no reason to reject a 
recommendation to retain his DB benefits.
Taking all of these factors together, Im not satisfied that Davies Craddocks advice was 
suitable for Mr S. Therefore, Im upholding this complaint. Ive set out below what Davies 
Craddock needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Davies Craddock to put Mr S as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I said above, I consider 
Mr S would have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice 
had been given. 
Davies Craddock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr S has retired, so, compensation should be based on the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Davies Craddock should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension.
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts Davies Craddocks offer to calculate how much of his redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr S end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Davies 
Craddock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax 
that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the 
loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr S likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Davies Craddock to 
pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Davies Craddock pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Davies Craddock.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman