DRN-3558430
The complaint
Mrs Ss representative has complained, on her behalf, that shes paid a fee to that same 
representative in pursuit of a separate claim against an advisory firm which recommended 
that she transfer her defined benefit pension benefits. Mrs S considers that, had The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited not allowed the transfer to proceed, she wouldnt 
have needed to pursue that separate claim and pay the fee to her representative.
What happened
Mrs S received advice from a separate advisory firm in May 2019 to transfer her defined 
benefit pension benefits to Royal London, and in June 2019, the regulator (the Financial 
Conduct Authority) withdrew that firms permissions to provide regulated advice.
Mrs Ss representative then raised a claim with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) as the advisory firm could no longer meet liabilities for such complaints. 
The FCSC considered the matter and paid Mrs S compensation of £10,357 in respect of the 
loss on her transfer of pension benefits.
Mrs Ss representative took a £2,071 fee to handle the claim on her behalf.
Mrs Ss representative then raised the above complaint with Royal London. Royal London 
declined to uphold the complaint, saying that it wasnt responsible for the advice given to Mrs 
S to transfer her pension benefits and that the advisory firm was regulated when it gave the 
advice. It said that it undertook the appropriate checks in receiving the transferred sum, and 
it hadnt received notification from the business or the Trustees that transfers shouldnt 
proceed.
It also said that it wasnt responsible for the fee which Mrs S paid to her representative and 
that it had been her choice to use the representative rather than approaching the FSCS 
directly.
In support of that position, it said that the FSCS was a free service and that it made it clear 
on its website that consumers could contact it directly and retain all of their compensation.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs Ss representative referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. They 
said the following in summary:
There were different responsibilities between advising firms and product providers 
which received the transfers, and any financial loss in this case was caused by the 
advising firm.
The product provider had a duty to carry out the proper checks before accepting the 
transfer, including the requirement to ensure that regulated advice had been given. 
But it didnt need to ensure that the transfer advice was suitable.
The investigator was also satisfied that, when Royal London undertook its checks, 
the advisory firm still appeared on the FCAs register of regulated firms. The actual 
funds were transferred after its permissions were removed, but this was due to the 
ceding scheme administrator not releasing the funds until that later point.
It was Mrs Ss choice to raise her complaint with the FSCS through her 
representative  as noted by Royal London, the FSCS is a free service and its 
website made this clear. Mrs S could therefore have avoided the fee by pursuing 
the matter directly with the FSCS.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Royal London had confirmed that it only performed one due diligence check, and this 
was when it completed the discharge forms in May 2019.
Although the FCA withdrew the advising firms permissions in June 2019, this applied 
to pipeline business as well as new business. This meant that the advisory firm 
needed to cease pipeline business such as Mrs Ss.
Given the amount of transfer business that the advisory firm placed with Royal 
London, it was inconceivable that the latter didnt feel the need to monitor the 
advisory firm and its activities, especially against the backdrop of the well-publicised 
action taken by the regulator in respect of the poor standard of defined benefit 
transfers.
Whilst Royal London had said that it had received no notice from the advisory firm 
that it had been required to cease all transfer business, it was absurd to suggest that 
such an advisory firm would do so when it was attempting to secure as much 
business as possible before it failed.
It was inexcusable for Royal London not to have performed a second check before 
accepting the transfer. In failing to do so, it clearly didnt conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their view, however, saying that it was the 
responsibility of the advisory firm to cease its transfer activity, rather than the receiving 
product provider. 
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
Id firstly say that, in terms of Royal Londons responsibilities here, my understanding is that 
Mrs S would have needed to assign her rights to complain against any third party about the 
transfer, including Royal London, to the FSCS as a condition of accepting the compensation 
amount. And so it would be the FSCS which would be able to pursue any claim against 
Royal London in respect of any perceived failings in its due diligence if it wished to recover 
the amount paid to Mrs S in respect of the actual transfer.  
But even if that isnt the case  and I acknowledge that the actual complaint here is about the fee, rather than the loss arising from the transfer  before I could consider the claim 
itself, Id nevertheless firstly need to conclude that Royal London had failed to undertake the 
proper checks here. And having assessed the evidence, I agree with the investigator that it 
ensured that, at the time of checking, the firm which had provided the transfer advice was 
regulated.
And I also agree that it was the responsibility of the advisory firm which had been told to 
cease all new and pipeline business to ensure that this was actioned.
But again, even if a different interpretation of this was possible, and I was able to conclude 
that Royal London was liable for Mrs S deciding to complain, and to do so against the 
advisory firm, Mrs S could in any case have made that claim free of charge.
Or to put it another way, even if it could be concluded that there was a causal link between 
any perceived failings on Royal Londons behalf and Mrs S deciding to pursue the advisory 
firm, the clear mitigating break in that link to the issue complained of - the fee - is Mrs Ss 
decision to use her representative and pay the fee, when there was the possibility of 
obviating that cost altogether.
And so Royal Londons involvement in this matter is distinct from Mrs Ss decision to use a 
representative to pursue her (successful) claim against the advisory firm, and which created 
the fee (the perceived loss) about which Mrs S has then complained. Therefore, as with the 
investigator, my view is that Mrs Ss perceived loss here is a result of her decision to use her 
representative, rather than any failings on behalf of Royal London.
As such, there is no fair or reasonable basis upon which this complaint could be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman