DRN-3495977
The complaint
 A company, which I refer to as F complains, that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated it unfairly when 
they refused to amend the monthly repayment date for its Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
In bringing this complaint F is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Ms P.  
  
What happened
 F drew down a BBL of just over £12,000 with HSBC on 31 July 2021. The repayment date 
for the BBL fell on the 31st of each month because according to HSBC, this aligned with the 
date F drew down the BBL.
F wanted to change the date so that repayment would be made on the first day of each 
month. HSBC said this couldnt be done because it would contravene the policies set by the 
British Business Bank, the government-owned bank that administered the BBL Scheme. 
In August 2021 F successfully applied for a term extension, which the bank confirmed in 
writing on 6 August 2021. 
Fs first repayment was due on 31 August 2021, but it wasnt received by HSBC. The bank 
wrote to F on two occasions in September 2021 to notify F of the arrears and that these 
amounts needed to be made up.
But Ms P still wanted the repayment date for the BBL changed and remained aggrieved that 
HSBC were reluctant to do so. She said that when F took out the loan, she did not know 
there would only be one immovable date for the collection direct debits payments. HSBC 
maintained their position and since the parties couldnt agree, Ms P referred Fs complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that the monthly repayment 
date was set as the 31st day of each month since the BBL was drawn down on 31 July, then 
in line with the BBL agreement. She didnt think HSBC could amend that date as Ms P 
requested because, uniquely, the BBL did not operate in the same way as other loans when 
it came to amending dates on direct debit mandates.   
Ms P did not agree with the investigators conclusion and asked that an ombudsman review 
Fs complaint. She said, in summary, that the date of the BBL drawdown was in effect 
chosen by HSBC. And furthermore, the bank made no attempts to refer to the agreement 
nor explain in terms of the monthly repayments the long-term consequence for F of the date 
on which the BBL was drawn down.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions and for much the same reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
The BBL agreement sets out the terms and conditions in connection with the repayments as 
follows:
Your first repayment will be made on the date 13 months(s) after the date you draw 
down the Loan and you will repay the Loan in 59 monthly instalments ... 
The variation letter also dealt with repayment of the BBL as follows: 
You have selected an extension to the Final Repayment date of the Facility to 10 
years from the date of the First Draw Down. As a result, your next monthly instalment 
of capital and interest will be made on 31 Aug 2021 
I am satisfied that the manner in which repayment of the BBL was to be structured and how 
that tied in with drawdown of the BBL was explained in the BBL agreement. And given that 
drawdown of the loan took place on 31 July, it follows that the 31st day of the month would 
be the date for the collection of the BBL repayments from F. 
Ms P is right, the actual date of the drawdown of the BBL was not one that F was able to 
choose. There was no specific date given in the agreement when drawdown might occur. It 
simply said that by accepting the agreement F signalled its wish to draw down the loan as 
soon as possible.  
Nonetheless, it seems to me if a key determinant of whether or not to proceed with the loan 
was that the date for repayment had to be the first day of the month rather than what the 
agreement provided, it wouldnt be unreasonable to expect that F would wish to clarify this 
before proceeding with the BBL. I say that because the opening paragraph of the agreement 
highlighted that it is an important legal document that should be read in its entirety. And 
furthermore, the bank recommended that independent legal advice be obtained to make 
sure the agreement was understood before it was entered into. So, Im afraid I do not find 
HSBC should have explained the terms and conditions of the agreement to Ms P. 
Having therefore signed the agreement accepting its terms, I see no reason why F shouldnt 
be bound by them. And so, I do not find that HSBC is at fault for requiring F to adhere to 
those terms and conditions.   
That being said, Ive observed that there is nothing in the agreement dealing with whether 
the repayment date can or cannot be changed. And Ive noted Ms P believes HSBC can if it 
wishes to do so. 
Initially in its final response letter to F, HSBC maintained they were unable to amend the 
date that repayments are collected because of the constraints placed upon them by the 
policy of the British Business Bank. But the bank has since clarified that it is actually 
because it is the banks policy not to do so. 
It is HSBCs case that there are implications if the direct debit date is moved to another date. 
In particular, that this would mean not being able to actively record Fs payments in line with 
the agreement. And furthermore, that the knock-on effect would result in the BBL showing as 
being in arrears until those arrears are cleared. HSBC also said the Pay As You Grow 
calculations - £125.66 over 107 months - are worked out based on the recorded direct debit 
date for the BBL, which is in line with the drawdown date confirmed in the agreement.The upshot is that the BBL is structured in a different way to other loans in the sense that 
drawdown and repayment dates are interconnected. And in turn that means the BBL is less 
flexible in terms of how repayments are collected. Given this, I think HSBCs position is 
reasonable  so I dont think it acted unfairly in declining Fs request to amend its payment 
date.
I can understand Fs frustration at the lack of that flexibility. But Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for the bank to adhere to that structure and not least because it prevents the BBL 
being shown to fall into arrears.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman