DRN-3828413
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was unable to access online banking or the mobile app with Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
What happened
Mr J says that he tried to check his credit card balance via Halifaxs online banking and 
mobile app in September 2022 before making purchases. He says the data was unavailable 
and he also had problems transferring money between his accounts. Mr J says he couldnt 
see when his monthly payment was due, and he was at risk of overspending and losing his 
0% purchase promotion. He adds that the purchases he wanted to make were discounted at 
the time. Mr J says he has previously been compensated for a similar issue just two weeks 
earlier.
Halifax accepted there was a problem with accessing credit card details online on 15 
September between 8am and 12.30pm and apologised to Mr J. It says it sent its customers 
a message to let them know about the problem and so wouldnt be offering compensation.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
Mr J couldnt access the mobile app for several hours but did not find he suffered any 
financial consequences that warranted compensation.
Mr J responded to say, in summary, that online banking was also not working and having to 
call during working hours would have been an inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I accept Mr J was caused some inconvenience on 15 September 2022, I have 
considered what impact this had on him. I am satisfied the app and online banking were 
available later that day and so Mr J would have been able to check his balance, transfer 
money and make purchases at the discounted rate.
Halifax has also confirmed that Mr J had a direct debit set up to pay the minimum payment 
due on his credit card each month. It says this payment wasn't due to be paid until 29
September 2022 and it was collected and paid on this date. So, Im satisfied this payment 
was unaffected and his promotional offer would have been retained.
I accept it may have been inconvenient for Mr J to call Halifax, but this remained an option 
for him should he have chosen to take it.
I also acknowledge that Halifax had previously paid Mr J compensation for a similar issue, 
but this service assesses each case on its individual merits.
In all the circumstances of the case, Im satisfied that Mr J wasnt affected financially, and it 
was sufficient for Halifax to apologise to him for the inconvenience, which I can see it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman