DRN-1564941
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way his motor insurance provider Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) handled a claim made against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident with a third party where his insured car made contact with 
the rear of their car. After admitting he was at fault for the accident costs were submitted by 
the third party.
The third party made a claim for the damage to their car and multiple personal injury claims.
Mr D explained that there were only two people in the third-party car when the accident 
happened and that the damage being claimed for didnt correspond with that caused during 
the accident.
Mr D is unhappy with the time taken to finalise the claim and feels that the claim has been 
exaggerated by the third-party. He also thinks the accident may have been staged as the 
third party applied their brakes too hastily. He thinks the claim should therefore be recorded 
as non-fault.
Aviva paid some of the costs presented to it by the third party, but also challenged some.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Aviva had acted reasonably in the way it had handled the claim and the amounts it had paid.
Mr D disagreed so his complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was involved in an accident and admitted to being responsible for it at the time.
We dont decide who was responsible for an accident, as this is the role of the courts.
Instead we look at whether the insurer acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and
conditions when it decided to settle the other drivers claim.
Mr Ds policy, like most other motor insurance policies, gives Aviva the right to take over, 
defend, and settle any claim presented to it. 
Considering the circumstances of the accident I think Aviva acted reasonably in proceeding 
to deal with the claim made by the third-party on a fault basis.
I appreciate Mr D feels the claim costs are high. I have thought about this and can confirm 
that Aviva paid the following in respect of the claim:
£1,744.78 - Own Damages.
£5,068.88 - Third party hire and write-off value
£4,016.00 - Third party injury and costs
I appreciate Mr Ds feelings that the damage claimed for by the third-party does not match 
that caused in the accident. But I have seen the report produced to support these costs. 
The report is accompanied by images of the third-party car and the images dont appear so 
show significant damage that is visible. Although the report has been carried out by an 
engineer that has given a breakdown of the full costs involved in carrying out the repairs. As 
the cost of the repairs is higher than the value of the car I think a reasonable decision has 
been made for the car to be written off and a settlement made to the third-party.
Whilst it is also sometimes difficult to consider that an injury would be caused in a low speed 
impact the third party has made a claim for injury supported by medical evidence that the 
injury is consistent with the accident circumstances. Considering the evidence provided by 
the third-party, again I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in settling this aspect of the 
claim.
I appreciate this claim has taken some time to resolve but Aviva had rejected the third-
partys further claim points and were waiting to see if the claim was continued or not. Whilst 
it could have sped up the processing of the claim by chasing the third-party more often, I 
dont think it was required to do so as it was affectively asking if the third-party still wanted to 
proceed with a claim against Mr Ds policy, and this could have adversely affected his policy.
With everything considered I think Aviva has acted reasonably when dealing with Mr Ds 
claim, and as he would be considered the party at fault for the accident, I wont be asking 
Aviva to change the way the claim has been recorded.
I am pleased to say that since Mr D made his complaint the claim has been closed and no 
further payment has been paid to the third-party.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman