DRN-3132349
The complaint
Miss T complains about a decision Assurant General Insurance Limited made to decline a 
claim against her mobile phone insurance policy when she lost her mobile phone. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator, for the following 
reasons:
The terms of Miss Ts mobile phone insurance policy repeatedly say Assurant  as 
the policy underwriter  may decline a claim if they feel Miss T put her phone at too 
much risk of being stolen, lost or damaged. So it was within the scope of the terms 
for Assurant to consider whether Miss T had taken too much risk with her phone. 
I find its fair for Assurant to apply their terms as written, in this case. There arent any 
exceptional circumstances that go beyond what Miss T could have expected when 
she accepted the terms. 
Assurants decision was based on the circumstances as Miss T had reported them. 
Assurant could reasonably treat her report as an accurate account of what 
happened, and rely on it when making their decision.
The conclusion they reached appears reasonable, given Miss T had taken the phone 
with her into deep water, without anything other than her hand to hold it in. I can see 
why Assurant feel that created an increased risk that she might drop the phone, in a 
place where itd be difficult to find it and pick it back up. 
Assurant have explained their decision to Miss T in a clear way, and in a reasonable 
amount of time after they had the full details of the claim.
For these reasons, I find Assurant have provided a fair and reasonable service to Miss T, 
even though they declined her claim. 
My final decision
Ive not upheld this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman