DRN-4172845
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) allowed money to be 
transferred out of Mrs Cs account to a third party that wasnt the executor of the estate. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, the executor of Mrs Cs estate (Mrs P) says that money in 
her Santander account was left in Mrs Cs will to her grandson. However, she says that 
Santander paid the balance of the account to another family member and allowed them to 
withdraw money using just the death certificate and ID. 
Santander confirmed that it did pay money to the third party as they had the required 
documentation. After Mrs P claimed to be the executor, it asked her to show this by 
producing a grant of probate and subsequently paid the money to her as the rightful executor 
in November 2022.
Mrs P complains that the money should have only been paid to her as sole executor of the 
estate, and she is also unhappy that she had to provide a grant of probate given the value of 
the estate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Santander had paid her 
the correct amount, and also didnt think it was unreasonable for it to request a grant of 
probate given the dispute over which person was the rightful executor. Mrs P disagreed, so 
the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mrs P claims that Santander wrongly paid the balance of Mrs Cs account to a third party 
on 17 May 2022. Santander says the account was closed on this date and the funds sent 
to a third party because they had signed the indemnity form confirming they were the 
rightful executor, showing ID and a death certificate.
 I understand that Mrs P is unhappy about this. But it appears the third party had the 
required documentation in order to close the account. I appreciate they may not have 
been the executor, but in any event, the balance of the account has subsequently been 
paid by Santander to Mrs P as the rightful executor on 18 November 2022. So, there has 
been no financial loss here. Santander may wish to initiate recovery proceedings against 
the third party for wrongly claiming the funds, but it would not have to involve Mrs P in 
this exercise. So, given Mrs P has since received the balance of Mrs Cs account, Im not 
persuaded Santander would need to do anything further.
Mrs P has also disputed a £3,552.08 payment being made on 16 May 2022 before the 
account was closed. Santander has confirmed that this was to pay off an outstanding 
loan that was held by Mrs C, which is in line with the terms set out in its bereavement 
guide, where it states that loans held solely in the deceaseds name can be repaid from 
the estate. Therefore, I dont consider it has acted unfairly by using money from the 
estate to offset Mrs Cs outstanding loan. 
Mrs P is also unhappy that Santander required her to obtain a grant of probate before 
releasing the funds to her, as this isnt in line with its bereavement guide that states a 
grant of representation will only be required if the value of the estate is over £50,0000. I 
appreciate that the value of Mrs Cs estate did not exceed this amount, such that a grant 
of probate would not normally be required. However, in this instance, there was a dispute 
over who was the rightful executor, as another person had already signed an indemnity 
claiming they were in May 2022. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable in such 
circumstances for Santander to request a grant of probate from Mrs P after she claimed 
it was her, as this would show definitively who the courts deem to be the executor of the 
estate. 
I note there were also several ATM withdrawals and other payments made between the 
date of Mrs Cs death and the account being closed. But Mrs P has confirmed that these 
were withdrawals made by her as the executor, so I have not considered these as they 
are not in dispute. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mrs P, and I understand that the police 
are now investigating the actions of the third party. However, Im not persuaded that 
Santander has done anything wrong or would need to take any further action in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman