DRN-2840373
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs A says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2003 Mrs A took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided protection for Mrs A's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out 
15% of the outstanding account balance each month and it cost £1.50 for every £100 Mrs 
A owed on the card.
Mrs A gave us her circumstances based on a sale date of 2002. We asked her to clarify 
whether anything was different in 2003 (the actual sale date) but we didnt hear back. Like 
the adjudicator, I have therefore assumed Mrs As circumstances were broadly the same. 
Mrs A told us she was employed as a store assistant and she wasnt entitled to any 
(enhanced) sick pay and didnt have any other means she could use to make the 
repayments on her account in the event she was unable to work. Mrs C has said she had a 
couple of medical conditions sometime before the time of the sale.
According to AXA's records, Mrs C paid around £126 in total for PPI during the policys 
lifetime.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mrs A chose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs A, through her representative disagrees the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs J's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs J have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
AXA had to make it clear that PPI was optional.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs A's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI. And in Mrs A's case she signed this section. This section said: only sign this 
section if you require cover. So if Mrs A didn't want to take out PPI she could've left this 
section blank. By having to give her signature on the form and in the way it was required, I'm 
not persuaded she would've done so without knowing broadly what she was signing for  
albeit I accept she might not have understood all that she needed to know about it, which I 
will discuss below.
So, taking everything into account I think Mrs A chose to take out the cover and she did so 
without undue pressure.  
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs A to take out PPI. Mrs A hasnt said 
either way. Looking at what happened in Mrs As case Ive not seen anything to show or 
suggest that AXA considered Mrs As individual circumstances and/or recommended the 
cover to her. 
So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs A. But it did have to 
give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could make an 
informed decision about it.
Given the available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A about 
the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale took place 
in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be described 
as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, Mrs A chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her - for example Mrs C was eligible for the cover 
and she was in employment.
Regarding pre-existing medical conditions - Mrs A has told us that around four years prior to 
the sale she had two medical conditions. But from what Mrs A has said, it doesnt appear 
that these were anything more than minor one-off type incidents. For example Mrs A has 
said that she took painkillers and relaxed missing only a couple of days work. So on the 
basis that Ive not seen anything to persuade me that her conditions were ongoing such that 
she suffered with them or sought treatment from a doctor closer to the time of the sale, I 
dont think better information about the medical condition exclusion wouldve likely put her off 
taking out PPI.
In addition Mrs A wasnt caught by any of the other significant exclusions and limitations on 
cover, so I think she still had some good reasons to take out the cover  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have caused Mrs A to change her mind about taking 
out PPI.
conclusionWhile AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs A PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have likely still gone 
ahead and taken out PPI in any event.
This means I dont think Mrs A has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
do anything to put things right.
Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith 
meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs As particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint.
 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman