DRN-3185285
The complaint
Mr E complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) settlement of his travel insurance 
claim for his iPad. My references to IPA include its agents.
What happened
Mr E had a travel insurance policy insured by IPA. When he was on holiday abroad his 
belongings were stolen from his bag and he claimed on the policy.
IPA approved the claim but applied a single article limit of £200 for the cost of Mr Es iPad, 
which it said was in line with the policy terms.
Mr E says the policy sent to him states that gadget cover has a limit of £750, but IPA told 
him there were additional restrictions that limited the cover to £200. He believes the lower 
limits were hidden within the small print of a long policy document which is misleading. Mr E 
wants IPA to apply the £750 limit to his claim for the iPad which was worth about £640.
IPA said Mr E hadnt bought the optional gadget cover for his policy, which he could have 
bought for an additional premium. So it had correctly applied the £200 single article limit 
referred to in the policy terms in the baggage section. 
Our investigator said IPA had acted fairly in applying the £200 limit.
Mr E disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the first page of the policy 
should provide both the upper and lower limit for claims and just showing the upper limit with 
a note to check restrictions elsewhere wasnt a customer friendly document. Also, he would 
like insurers to send policy documents which only include the cover the customer paid for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service isnt the industry regulator so we dont have the power to tell insurers what they  
must and mustnt include in their policy documentation. I can decide whether IPA fairly and 
reasonably settled Mr Es claim for his iPad, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The first page of the policy document includes a table of benefits and limits and refers Mr E 
to the section of the policy where he could find the full terms and conditions for each benefit.
The first page of the policy says:
Significant features and benefits
 The table shows the maximum amount payable for each insured person after the 
deduction of the policy excess (unless otherwise stated). Some sections are optional 
and these are marked* - your policy schedule will show if you selected any of these 
options
Section Title Limit Excess
D                                                                      Baggage
Single article limit
Total for all valuables                                      £1,500
£200
£200£50
£50
£50

K* Gadget cover £750 £50
The full terms and conditions for the gadget cover section K of the policy say:
Cover for section K only operates if the appropriate gadget cover section is shown 
as operative in the schedule and the appropriate additional premium has been paid.
The full terms for section K is towards the end of a long policy document. But I think on the 
first two pages of the policy theres clear information that the gadget cover at section K only 
applies if Mr E had selected that optional cover, which would show on his policy schedule, 
and that the single article limit is £200 for baggage and valuables. I dont think the way the 
information is set out is misleading or hidden away in the long policy document.
The policy schedule is a two page document and beneath the heading of Options the box is 
blank. So I think the schedule clearly showed Mr E hadnt bought the gadget cover option. 
If Mr E had bought the optional gadget cover his iPad would have been covered to the limit 
of £750. But as he hadnt bought gadget cover IPA fairly assessed his claim using the 
section D baggage policy terms which say:
1. We will pay you up to £1,500 for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to 
baggage and valuables. The amount payable in the event of a total loss, will be the 
value at todays prices less a deduction for wear tear and depreciation (loss of value), 
or we may replace, reinstate or repair the lost or damaged baggage and/or valuables.
The maximum we will pay you for the following items is:
a) £200 for any one article, pair or set of articles
b) £200 for the total for all valuables.
The policy definition of valuables includes tablets which includes the iPad.
Im satisfied that IPA fairly relied on the baggage section policy terms and limit to settle the 
claim for the iPad at £200, which is the limit for a single item and the limit for all valuables.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman