DRN-2538457
The complaint
Mr V complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided him with incorrect 
information about the value of his pension savings. He says that, as a result of the time it 
took for that information to be corrected, he lost out on the opportunity to transfer his pension 
savings into a flexible access drawdown arrangement with Aviva.
What happened
Mr V holds pension savings with Aviva arising from a pension plan he took out in 1974. That 
pension plan provides a guaranteed pension amount as part of the policy. From the 
information Aviva sent to Mr V, the guarantee would result in him receiving an annuity 
approximately 28% higher than he would receive without the guarantee.
Aviva communicated with Mr V on a number of occasions between January and 
September 2019. Over that time Aviva provided Mr V with several valuations of his pension 
savings and the annuity he could purchase, and also discussed with him whether he could 
instead use those pension savings to take his benefits as a lump sum by transferring them to 
a flexible access drawdown arrangement.
Some of the valuations that Aviva provided to Mr V were incorrect. And even when Aviva 
acknowledged the quotations were incorrect, it still sent the wrong information to Mr V. Aviva 
also explained to Mr V that he would be unable to transfer his pension savings to an Aviva 
flexible access drawdown arrangement. But it then proceeded to send the relevant transfer 
forms to Mr Vs financial advisor.
Mr V complained to Aviva about the service hed received in October 2019. Aviva agreed 
that it had made mistakes in the way it had dealt with his requests. And it paid him £200 for 
the trouble and upset hed been caused. Mr V wasnt satisfied with Avivas response  in 
particular he thought the delays in him getting the correct information had meant that hed 
missed an opportunity to transfer to a flexible access drawdown arrangement with Aviva. So 
he brought his complaint to this Service. I understand that he hasnt yet taken his pension 
benefits, awaiting I assume the outcome of his complaint. 
Mr Vs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that the 
errors Aviva had made in the valuation information provided to Mr V had caused him a 
financial loss. And she thought that it was Avivas right to refuse a transfer to its flexible 
access drawdown arrangement. She said that the compensation that Aviva had already paid 
to Mr V was fair. So she didnt think Aviva needed to do anything further in relation to the 
complaint.
Mr V didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr V and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There doesnt seem to be any doubt that some of the information Aviva sent to Mr V during 
2019 was incorrect. I have seen that the valuations he was sent were, on occasion, wrong. 
That is very disappointing, and I am pleased to see that Aviva has accepted its mistakes and 
paid some compensation to Mr V. I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr V relied 
on the information he was sent. It seems to me that he quickly spotted the errors and asked 
Aviva for corrected information. So I dont think he has been caused a financial loss by the 
provision of the incorrect information.
It is clear that Mr V doesnt see these pension savings as a fundamental part of his ongoing 
provision for his retirement income. He has told us that his aim would be to take the whole of 
these pension savings as a lump sum so he can enjoy the money whilst he is young enough 
to do so. In order for that to happen, Mr V would need to take advantage of the pensions 
freedoms legislation that was introduced in 2015. That would allow him to move his pension 
savings into a flexible access drawdown arrangement, from which he could then take a 
withdrawal of the entire amount (less the relevant tax that would be due).
Mr Vs pension savings benefit from a valuable guarantee. As I said earlier the annuity that 
the guarantee would provide would be around 28% higher than an annuity without the 
guarantee. So, as Aviva has already suggested to Mr V, he should think carefully, and 
potentially take some independent financial advice, before giving up that guarantee. Should 
he decide to move his pension savings into a flexible access drawdown arrangement the 
guarantee would be lost.
But, perhaps importantly for Mr V, the current legislation doesnt require him to take financial 
advice before giving up the guarantee. The value of his pension savings is less than the 
£30,000 set out in the legislation. So, if he chooses, Mr V is free to make that decision for 
himself.
That doesnt however mean that Aviva (or any other provider) needs to offer that option to a 
consumer. Aviva says that a number of years ago it decided that it wouldnt allow pension 
savings that benefitted from a guarantee such as Mr Vs to be transferred into its flexible 
access drawdown arrangement. That is an entirely reasonable business decision, and not 
one that an ombudsman should interfere with. To reassure Mr V, I understand that the option 
to transfer his pension savings into a flexible access drawdown arrangement with Aviva was 
not available at any point during his discussions with the firm. He hasnt missed out on the 
opportunity due to any delays caused by Aviva sending the incorrect information.I understand that Mr V hasnt taken his pension benefits yet. So the option does remain for 
him to transfer those pension savings to another firm that will allow him to transfer 
guaranteed benefits into a flexible access drawdown arrangement. Some firms will, as Aviva 
has, refuse that transfer, others will require Mr V to take financial advice, but there are a 
number of regulated firms in the market that would allow Mr V to make the transfer without 
advice.
I have seen that Mr Vs pension savings have remained invested while his complaint has 
been ongoing. And it seems they have grown in value over that time. So it seems to me that 
any losses due to a delay in taking his annuity income, if that is what he ultimately decides to 
do, will be offset by potentially a better annuity rate, and/or a larger value for his pension 
savings.
I think that what Aviva did to recognise the trouble and upset it had caused Mr V by providing 
incorrect information was fairly compensated by the £200 it paid him. I dont think that 
information caused Mr V any other direct financial loss, or removed the opportunity for him to 
transfer his pension savings to a flexible access drawdown arrangement with Aviva. It 
follows that I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman