DRN-3467339
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) has unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In October 2013, Mrs F paid £12,950 to a business Ill call Business I, of which £2,000 was 
paid using her TSB credit card. This was to buy a computer software product that offered a 
way to get discounted holidays. Although the product was supplied by Business I, the actual 
software was developed by a different business Ill call Business R, which also ran the 
scheme by which people could buy the holidays.
In March 2019, Mrs F made a claim to TBS under s.75 CCA. She said that Business I had 
breached its contract with her as she as never able to use the software to buy holidays and 
both Business I and Business R were no longer trading. She also thought the nature of the 
product was misrepresented to her at the time of sale.
TSB responded to Mrs Fs claim and said there werent the right arrangements in place to 
made a s.75 CCA claim as Mrs F hadnt paid Business R directly. TSB thought Business I 
had done what it needed to, by providing Mrs F with the software she bought. But it also 
thought that Mrs F had brought her claim too late and the Prescription and Limitation 
(Scotland) Act 1973 (PLSA) gave a defence to any claims being made.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mrs F brought a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered everything, but didnt think TSB needed to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint. He thought the claim for misrepresentation was made too late and 
TSB had a defence to it under the PLSA. He thought the claim for breach of contract had 
been made in time, but because Business I was paid and not Business R, that meant TSB 
didnt needed to answer that claim.
Mrs F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background facts
Mrs F has provided me with both her recollections of the sale as well as a number of 
documents from Business I and Business R. Ive considered all of that to determine what I 
think happened.
Mrs F has explained that she was approached whilst on holiday and ended up attending a 
sales meeting with Business I. She says she was subjected to a high-pressured sales 
meeting where she was told that she could get a lifetime of discounted holidays by 
purchasing Business Rs software. Mrs F remembers being told this was a fool-proof 
investment that would save her considerable amounts of money. But, after returning home 
and trying to book something, it was clear that what she was told wasnt true. Mrs F provided 
articles and documents showing that other customers had found Business I and Business R 
not to have provided the discounts promised. Mrs F also explained that Business R closed 
down in 2018. 
I have seen a one page agreement that contains the terms of the sale to Mrs F by 
Business I. It explains that Business I was an authorised distributor of Business Rs browser 
application. The contract is said to be for the purchase of a boxed software product in the 
form of a CD. It also says that it is governed by Spanish law.
Ive also seen a document called [Business R] Product and & Service Overview that sets 
out the services offered by Business R. In short, it offered a subscription based, online 
concierge service through its own browser application. Through this service, subscribers 
could book holiday accommodation, flights and associated holiday products. Nothing on this 
document mentions any services being offered by anyone but Business R.
Having considered everything, I have no reason to doubt anything Mrs F has said. But, for 
the reasons Ill explain, I dont think TSB needs to do anything further to answer these 
claims.
Was TSB jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the 
creditor. So here, Mrs F (the debtor) was asking TSB (the creditor) to answer her claims for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract over the problems set out above.
But this doesnt apply to every claim Mrs F may have. TSB is only responsible for claims 
when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This is set out more 
fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be arrangements in place so that 
the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit advanced. In Mrs Fs case, she 
contracted with Business I directly and paid it using her TSB credit card. 
I dont think its in doubt that there was a DCS agreement in place concerning Mrs F, TSB 
and Business I. So TSB needed to consider any s.75 CCA claim made about Business Is 
misrepresentations or breach of contract. Ill consider each in turn.
Was there an actionable misrepresentation?
Mrs F set out a number of things she says she was told that turned out to be untrue. Mrs F 
said that Business I misrepresented the nature of the Business R product to her when she 
bought it and that she had a claim for misrepresentation.
Under s.75 CCA, TSB could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by 
Business I. But TSB argued that any claim brought by Mrs F for any alleged  
misrepresentations was made too late.
Having considered everything, I agree. For the avoidance of doubt, its not my role to decide 
whether the limitation period had expired, as that would be a matter for the courts should a 
legal claim be litigated. Instead, Ive considered whether TSB acted fairly in turning down the 
claim.
Mrs F resided in Scotland, so the laws of Scotland applied to her credit agreement with TSB. Under the PLSA, Mrs F had five years to bring a claim for misrepresentation.1 Mrs F was 
able to make such a claim from the day she entered into the agreement to buy the 
timeshare. It was at that time that she entered into an agreement based, she said, on the 
misrepresentations of Business I and suffered a loss. She said, had the misrepresentations 
not been made, she would not have bought the software. And it was on that day that she 
suffered a loss, as she used her TSB credit card and was liable to repay that to TSB, which 
she says she would not have done but for the misrepresentations. It follows, therefore, that 
Mrs F had five years from then to bring a claim. But she didnt make a claim against TSB 
until March 2019, which was outside of the time limits. 
In some circumstances, the period of time to bring a claim can be extended if someone isnt 
aware they can make a claim. But here, Mrs F said that she was aware the software didnt 
work in the way described when she returned home from holiday. I think that would have 
been very shortly after buying the software, so any extension of time would have been short 
too. I dont think any extension would have been so long as to extend the time to when Mrs F 
actually made her claim. So I think TSB acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation 
claim.
Was there an actionable breach of contract?
Mrs F has explained that Business R closed in 2018, so she was unable to use the software 
at all from that day.2 Mrs F raised a claim about this within a year of it happening, so I think 
this claim was made in time.
Mrs F had an agreement with Business R as detailed above, so I think it is answerable for a 
claim about a breach of that agreement. I cant see that Mrs F ever had any interaction with 
Business R directly, so I think Business I were acting as a representative or agent of 
Business R at the time of sale. That is how Mrs F ended up with an agreement with 
Business R. 
But Mrs F entered into a separate agreement with Business I and that was for it to supply to 
her a physical disk containing Business Rs software. Business I did supply that disk to her 
and, in exchange, Mrs F paid Business I. I dont think Business Is agreement with Mrs F 
was breached by Business R (or Business I) later going out of business. Once Business I 
had given Mrs F the software, it had fulfilled its side of the deal.
As Mrs F didnt pay Business R directly using her TBS credit card, I dont think there is the 
right sort of DCS agreement in place for TSB to be responsible for any breach of contract 
claim against Business R. There are circumstances where TSB could be responsible if 
Business I and Business R were closely connected or associated. But Ive not seen any 
evidence of the sort of legal connection needed for TSB to be responsible. TSB would be 
responsible for any breach of contract claim arising out of the agreement between Mrs F and 
Business I, but I cant see that any such breach occurred. It follows, I dont think TSB acted 
unfairly in turning down the breach of contract claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint against TSB Bank plc.
1 The purchase agreement was governed by Spanish Law, which also had a five year limitation 
period. So I cant see this extended or changed the time Mrs F had to bring a claim.
2 Mrs F also says she was unable to use it before too, but its clear the allegation here that the 
contract was breached by Business R no longer offering its services to any customers.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman