DRN-1250996
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1998, Halifax sold Mr and Mrs S a monthly premium PPI policy to help protect their 
mortgage repayments if Mr S was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs S disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs S say they dont recall asking for PPI. But their signed mortgage application form 
indicates they opted to take out PPI. And the separate PPI application form they signed 
detailed the cover that was to be set up, which included the monthly benefit amount. 
Of course, I dont know for sure what was said during the sale but I cant discount the 
possibility that Mr and Mrs S simply dont recall agreeing to have the PPI. That would be 
understandable given the time thats passed. 
As such, I cant fairly say that Halifax added this cover without getting Mr and Mrs S 
agreement to take it and so I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. That meant Halifax, among other things, 
should have taken steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what steps it 
took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for them. 
For example, Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main things 
the PPI excluded or limited cover for. I cant see that Mr and Mrs S would have found the 
monthly premium unaffordable either.
Mr S was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay but I believe Mr and Mrs S still 
had a need for the PPI. The PPI benefits potentially paid out for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim. They say they could have relied on their substantial savings instead of 
taking PPI. But theyve given different accounts of how much they held and I havent seen 
any evidence to support that they had significant savings or whether they might have been 
set aside for a specific use. So, I havent taken them into account. Ive thought about the death in service and life cover Mr and Mrs S say Mr S had but that 
didnt provide like-for-like cover when compared with the PPI. 
While Mr and Mrs S saw their financial situation as being relatively stable and secure, there 
was no guarantee that would continue to be the case going forward or that they might not 
need the policy benefits at some stage in the future. 
Considering Mr and Mrs S were entering into a long-term financial commitment that was 
secured against their home, I think they still could have found the PPI useful.
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs S enough information about the PPI so they could 
make up their own minds if it was right for them. I think its possible that some of the 
information it gave them could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I 
dont think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have 
changed their decision to take it. I think they would still have thought it offered them useful 
benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
My final decision 
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman