DRN-2539279
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down her business interruption 
insurance claim, after her business was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mrs R holds a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. She claimed on her policy 
after her business was affected by the Governments actions in response to the national 
pandemic.
HDI said that the policy wouldnt provide cover for Mrs Rs business interruption if it was due 
to the national coronavirus crisis, rather than an outbreak at the premises. As Mrs R didnt 
indicate that someone at the premises had Covid-19, HDI turned down her claim. 
As Mrs R was unhappy with HDIs response, she brought her complaint to our service. She 
felt HDI should pay her claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought HDI had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought Mrs Rs business had been affected by the Governments actions in response to the 
pandemic, rather than because someone at her premises had Covid-19.
Mrs R didnt think it was fair for HDI to turn down the claim. She said one of her employees 
children had Covid-19 and her employee had been forced to shield. She added that shed 
spent a lot of money on adapting her business to make it safer for her customers. Mrs R 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic and the Governments related actions on 
Mrs Rs business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mrs R claim.
The most relevant part of the policy covers interruption or interference in consequence of:
a)  closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable Human 
Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a)  food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, but I dont think this extension covers Mrs Rs claim. I say 
that because the policy requires the closure or restrictions to Mrs Rs premises to have been 
as a result of a case of the notifiable disease occurring at the premises. Mrs R hasnt 
indicated that anyone at the premises had Covid-19. Instead, her business was affected by 
the Government Act in response to the national pandemic.
I understand that one of Mrs Rs employees had to isolate after their child had Covid-19, but 
there isnt anything to indicate that her employee, or anyone else, had Covid-19 at her 
premises.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, given that shes spent a 
considerable amount adapting her business so its safer for customers. But having 
considered this matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask HDI to pay the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman