DRN-1901615
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy as he noticed a number of issues with TSBs online banking. He raised 
these with TSB and doesnt think things have been resolved. 
What happened
Mr B has told us that while using TSBs online banking services in 2018/2019, he noticed a 
number of issues with its website, when using iOS.
In December 2018 Mr B complained to TSB about these issues, his concerns were around 
security risks, lack of optimisation, lack of functionality, cookies, website errors and that he 
was unable to download his PDF statements. Mr B has told us that, as a result of these 
issues, it has increased his anxiety and impacted on his mental health.
TSB looked into Mr Bs complaint and issued its final response in February 2019. It 
apologised for the delay in replying to Mr B and apologised for any problems caused. It 
thanked Mr B for his feedback and said it would be passed on to its digital services team. It 
explained that the service to download paperless statements wasnt currently available, but it 
was working on making this available soon.
For any distress and inconvenience Mr B may have experienced, TSB paid Mr B £100 and 
added a further payment of £50, for any expenses he may have incurred.
Mr B sent further points about his complaints to TSB in August 2019, but he did not receive a 
response to these. 
Mr B then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator explained that she understood the frustrations Mr B must have felt, 
but overall she thought TSB had dealt with his complaint fairly and reasonably and that the 
compensation it had offered was fair. She said TSB couldve responded to Mr Bs second 
letter, but she wasnt convinced it was substantially different to the points raised in the first 
letter, to which TSB did respond. 
Overall, our investigator recognised that TSB had caused some issues for Mr B
but the compensation was fair and reflected those issues. Mr B disagreed with our
investigators opinion  he said he has still not been able to access his statements and he 
doesnt consider the online banking site is usable.
As he disagreed with our investigators view. Mr Bs complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only summarised the
background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything that has been
provided. If I havent mentioned it, it doesnt mean I havent considered it, only that I have
concentrated on the crux of the issues.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced. I can appreciate it must be 
extremely frustrating not to be able to view statements and to make suggestions about how 
a system could be improved, only to feel changes are not then made. I think its important for 
me to note I very much recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about these matters.
Ive looked carefully at the complaints that Mr B has submitted to TSB and understand that 
he doesnt think TSB has dealt with these adequately, and that he didnt receive a response 
to his second letter. But I think the points Mr B raised in his second letter to TSB, in August 
2019, are broadly in line with what he had previously complained about, and that TSB had 
responded to in the final response letter it sent in February 2019.  So, while I think TSB 
could have taken the time to respond, I can understand why it didnt  given it had previously 
responded and given Mr B referral rights to this service. 
I think its helpful to set out its not my role to decide how a business should run its online 
bank systems. I realise that TSBs final response didnt go as far as Mr B had hoped, in 
terms of changes being made to its systems. But as our investigator explained, TSB said it 
would pass on Mr Bs feedback to its digital services team, but it didnt say that changes 
would definitely be made. I dont think the steps TSB took, to refer Mr Bs feedback were 
unreasonable, and I cant see it made any promises here that it didnt keep.
TSB acknowledged there was a period of time, where due to technical problems it was not 
possible to gain access to statements online. But it has told us that issues with viewing PDF 
statement online have now been resolved  TSB indicated that the function does require 
correct dates to be added. Our investigator suggested Mr B attempted to download his 
statements with a trusted person present  and that Mr B should let our investigator know if it 
didnt work. If Mr B continues to have problems, if he or his representative could contact our 
investigator, we will let TSB know.
I understand, through Mr Bs representative, that Mr B has some mental health problems, 
that causes him distress when dealing with businesses. From what I can see, TSB werent 
aware of Mr Bs personal circumstances until this complaint was raised. I therefore dont 
think TSB had enough information that wouldve allowed it to recognise Mr B as a vulnerable 
customer and offer any additional support before it was made aware of his circumstances.
Now that TSB is aware, Id expect it to act positively and sympathetically and to offer a 
reasonable amount of support. TSB has told us Mr B can contact it to let it know what would 
help him in his communication with the bank. TSB has also said if Mr B prefers, it can speak 
to his representative, but it would require Mr Bs consent to do this. 
Overall, while Mr B may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation TSB has
already paid fairly recognises the impact in the overall circumstances of this
complaint and that it has acted fairly and reasonably in how it has responded to Mr Bs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc has already paid Mr B fair compensation of £150. I do not require the bank to take any further steps to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman