DRN-3420572
The complaint
Mrs J complains that TSB Bank plc applied a refund of £171.12 to her existing credit card 
debt and did not send it directly to her current account.
What happened
Mrs J received a letter in June 2021 from TSB in which it explained it had reviewed her credit 
card account which was currently in collections. As a result of an error that occurred in 2010, 
they had made the decision to refund fees and interest that should not have been applied to 
her account totaling £171.12. It stated that as the interest and fees were part of an 
outstanding debt on her credit card account, they would adjust the credit card balance and 
reduce it by £171.12.
Mrs J contacted TSB as she felt she should be sent the £171.12 directly into her current 
account, and that it should not be used to reduce her existing debt. TSB advised her to raise 
a complaint so that it could be investigated. TSB were unable to locate a copy of the letter, 
and explained this in their final response letter on 12 September 2021. 
Mrs J was unhappy that they could not locate a copy of the letter, and says she was upset 
that she was advised to visit a branch with a copy of the letter as she is disabled and finds it 
difficult to travel in. She felt the staff had discriminated against her because of this.
The complaint was referred to our service and an investigator assessed the case. They felt 
that the bank had correctly applied the fees and interest to the existing debt in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. And having listened to the telephone calls, they did not 
think Mrs J had been treated differently to any other account holder, so did not feel she had 
been discriminated against because of her disability. They also found the staff had offered 
alternatives once they were aware of Mrs Js disability and they did not ask her to visit the 
branch. As a result, they didnt think TSB had made an error in the circumstances. 
Mrs J disagreed. She reiterated that she felt the refund was compensation and was hers to 
decide to use as she wanted to. She was unhappy that she had spent time on the phone 
trying to sort out the issue which had cost her money. She also mentioned that she feels she 
should have received a refund of her payment protection insurance (PPI).
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for largely the same reasons. I think TSB has 
correctly applied the refund to the existing debt, and I think theyve acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Before I discuss the merits of the complaint, I want to make it clear that I wont be 
considered any PPI claim that Mrs J has had with TSB. This complaint is about the refund of 
interest and charges TSB has awarded Mrs J following a review of her account. So, this is 
what I have focused on.
Ive firstly considered the refund of £171.12. I can appreciate why Mrs J feels very strongly 
about this and Ive carefully considered all of the evidence available to me. Mrs J has 
described the refund as compensation, but I disagree with this. The payment has not been 
awarded to Mrs J in recognition of a loss or damage. Its refunding charges and fees that 
were applied to her credit card account which should not have been applied in the first place. 
So, the payment is a refund, and is not compensation.  
The terms and conditions of the account state: if we owe you, or agree to refund you, any 
money in connection with any Transactions, interest or other charges on your account we 
may use that money to reduce any arrears you owe under this agreement. As the £171.12 
was comprised of interest and fees that TSB owed Mrs J, I think it acted fairly in using the 
funds to reduce the arrears Mrs J owed on the credit card account. And I dont consider that 
it has made an error.
I appreciate Mrs J has said TSB previously provided a refund directly to her current account 
and did not off-set it against her existing debt. But this is not normally what I would expect 
TSB to do in the circumstances. While it may have made a business decision to issue a 
refund directly to Mrs J in the past, I still think its decision not to do so in this instance is fair 
in the circumstances.
I can see that when Mrs J telephone TSB to try and arrange a refund directly to her current 
account, TSB were unable to locate the letter which contained the details of the refund. I can 
appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mrs J and its unclear why the letter was not 
located at that time. But I do think that Mrs J was given appropriate advice throughout, which 
was to firstly raise a complaint so it could be investigated, and then to refer the complaint to 
our service when she was unhappy with the outcome. 
I note the final response letter issued to Mrs J on 21 August 2021 said that although TSB 
could not locate the letter, if it contained a refund of interest and fees on her credit card 
account, then it would not be applied to her current account. This is because it would be 
applied to cover charges on her credit card. So, while they did not have sight of the actual 
letter, I do think TSB clearly set out their position in the final response letter., which I agree 
with. And it clearly stated that if Mrs J was unhappy with the outcome, she could refer her 
complaint to our service.
Despite this, Mrs J chose to visit a branch with the letter, at which point she was correctly 
advised to refer the complaint to our service if she was unhappy. Ive listened to the calls 
sent by TSB about this complaint. At times, Mrs J was advised to visit a branch, but once 
she made them aware she was disabled, Im satisfied they sought to give Mrs J other 
options to resolve the issue. I note one advisor offered to give an e-mail address which Mrs J 
could contact, but this was declined. So, Im satisfied TSB attempted to cater to Mrs Js 
needs, and Ive seen nothing to suggest theyve treated her unfairly due to her disability.
I considered Mrs Js comments that she has spent money on phone calls trying to address 
this issue. In this case, I dont think that TSB has made an error or acted unreasonably. 
Because of this, I dont think it would be fair to ask them to reimburse Mrs J with the cost of 
any telephone calls she has incurred while trying to raise a complaint. So I dont think TSB 
has to do anything further to remedy the complaint.  My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman