DRN-3878717
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with the decision by Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
(Hiscox) following a claim on their home insurance policy.
Mrs S and Mr S are both parties to this complaint. Mrs S and Mr S broker has also been 
involved with contacting Hiscox during the claim. Mrs S has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mrs S throughout this final decision. 
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of the agent, company S. As Hiscox Insurance Company Limited have 
accepted they are accountable for the actions of company S, in my decision, any reference 
to Hiscox Insurance Company Limited includes the actions of company S. 
What happened
Mrs S held a home insurance policy with Hiscox. The exclusions part of Mrs S policy 
explained the policy would not cover inherent defect.
In August 2020 Mrs S home was affected by flooding which resulted in the basement being 
flooded to a height of one metre. Following notification of the claim, Hiscox arranged for a 
third party (company S) to assess the damage and arrange for repair work to be completed. 
In September the basement area was cleaned and decontaminated, and drying works 
completed to the concrete. Mrs S provided company S with a list of beyond economic repairs 
(BER) items. Mrs S also complained about occasions where shed tried to call company S 
and had been on hold for 20 minutes before hanging up. 
On 29 October company S arranged for company AT to complete the outstanding repairs 
required to Mrs S basement. On 30 November Mrs S contacted company S as she hadnt 
heard anything from company AT. 
Between November 2020 and February 2021 further calls between Mrs S and company S 
took place regarding the outstanding repairs needed to Mrs S basement and, in particular, 
issues with the tanking system 
On 5 January 2021 company S paid Mrs S £3,629.95 for her BER contents claim. 
On 10 February company S informed Mrs S:
I have reviewed the adjuster's scope of works which does not include any tanking 
works only the resultant flood damage. I am not sure who agreed to 'inspect' the 
tanking, but this nor any repairs would be covered under your policy. If you still wish 
to have the tanking inspected, I must advise that after contacting our contractors, 
unfortunately we are unable to source any one that deals with tanking. Therefore you 
would need to obtain your own contractors to carry out the inspection.
With regards to the repair work, not including the Tanking System, they offered a 
cash settlement of £2,101.88, based on a quote received from [company AT]. The 
alternative option given to the Insured, instead of a cash settlement, was for [other 
contractors] to carry out the repairs.
On 12 February it was agreed with company S that Mrs S would find an independent expert 
to determine whether the tanking system had been damaged by the flooding incident, and 
provide an estimate for the costs of repairs. 
On 27 April Mrs S informed company S that the independent expert shed spoken to had 
advised that the repair work to the tanking system could be carried out at a cost of £15,950. 
Mrs S was informed this information would need to be provided on headed paper, along with 
the cause of damage. Company S made several attempts to chase this information.  
On 25 May Mrs S advised that the independent expert would no longer be able to provide 
the required information on headed paper. 
On 26 June Mrs S home was again flooded. The basement was flooded to a height of half a 
metre. The basement was cleaned and decontaminated, and drying works completed to the 
concrete. Mrs S confirmed shed spoken to another company (company D) to get a report for 
the tanking system. 
On 1 September company D inspected Mrs S basement. On 9 November a report was 
provided to company S. This report concluded There are numerous issues, faults, and 
deficiencies in the existing waterproofing system within this basement. It is therefore our 
recommendation that the existing Tanking system is removed and replaced in its entirety.
On 7 December company S instructed company SP (independent engineers), and company 
WS (specialist waterproofing company) to attend to Mrs S basement to investigate the 
cause of damage to the tanking system, and repairs required. 
Company SPs findings included:
Section 2.4 The cavity drain trays were clogged with silt and water was clearly visible 
to the floor and around the plastic trays at low level. There were no maintenance 
access points to the perimeter channel which would be expected with a fully 
compliant system.
Section 2.7 The inlet pipe on the front section of the pump chamber showed signs of 
long standing water seeping out between the inlet and chamber sections, with 
staining evident to the internal surface.
Section 3.3 In summary, there are clear inherent issues with the size of the pump 
and chamber and issues regarding the perimeter drainage channels and where these 
are positioned within the Construction makeup of the basement floor.
Section 3.4 The basement waterproofing system is not fully compliant with BS 8102 
2009, the British Standards which is the set of best practice guidelines for all facets 
of structural waterproofing. The intended waterproofing system is a Type C solution, 
which is classed as Drained Protection, Cavity Drain Membranes and Construction 
Drained Cavities. This is reinforced by the fact that no historical guarantees are 
available for the system also. 
Company WS findings included:Pump chamber does not appear to be fully encapsulated in concrete therefore 
allowing water to come up the side of the chamber.
The perimeter channel is set into a cut out pocket around the perimeter of the walls 
leaving the earth below the slab exposed, the perimeter channel then sits in this 
pocket and 6mm gravel has been put into the pocket, this gravel is to small and is 
now within the channel which in turn can get flushed into the sump chamber and 
damage the pump
By cutting this pocket in the floor slab, this has now allowed more water to flow into 
the system, this however is sometimes the only solution due to limited head height of 
the building or it is unknown that the slab is structurally reinforced.
If adopting this approach it essential that the pump chamber has adequate capacity 
to cope with the influx of water, if not the existing sump pump will be overwhelmed 
with water which has happened in this case and this is why the basement has 
flooded.
Hiscox maintained their decision to decline Mrs S claim for the tanking system. Hiscox paid 
Mrs S £5,165 to complete the outstanding repair work required to her basement (not 
including the tanking system), and also to compensate for the damage caused to the 
basement flooring during the investigation process carried out by company SP. Hiscox 
transferred £5,165 to Mrs S account in settlement of her claim. 
Mrs S complained to company S about this decision, and also the way in which her claim 
had been handled. Hiscox responded to Mrs S complaint on 15 July 2022 acknowledging 
that the service provided wasnt in line with their usual service standards and offered £200 in 
recognition of the impact on Mrs S. Hiscox didnt offer anything in settlement of Mrs S claim 
for repairing the tanking system. 
Mrs S was unhappy with Hiscoxs decision, and so brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. The investigator found that Hiscox had acted fairly in 
reaching their decision on Mrs S claim for the tanking system, but found that the service 
provided was poor because of delays and unanswered calls. The investigator found that 
£400 would a more reasonable amount to pay Mrs S in recognition of the impact on her.  
Hiscox disagreed with the investigators findings saying that there was a delay in the time 
taken for Mrs S to appoint [her] own contractor, [company D], to assess and submit a report. 
However I do not agree [we] are responsible for the delays or stress caused. 
Mrs S also didnt agree with the investigators findings saying that I feel that the flood and 
damage that has been left in my cellar and the stress and anxiety Ive been left with really 
are quite serious and I wouldnt be happy with £200 I am currently speaking with another 
insurance risk assessment and they are doing me a report
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.Declined claim for tanking system
Mrs S feels strongly that company S have treated her unfairly by rejecting her claim. I thank 
Mrs S for taking the time to explain her personal circumstances and everything thats 
happened since the flooding of her basement in August 2020. I understand it has been a 
difficult time for Mrs S.  
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Hiscox have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mrs S claim.    
Mrs S says that the damage to her tanking system has been directly caused by flooding 
which impacted her basement in August 2020. Mrs S says that company S should cover the 
cost of carrying out the necessary repair work to the tanking system. Hiscox maintain that 
the independent experts instructed on the claim have all provided similar findings which do 
not support what Mrs S has explained about the damage being consistent with flooding.
When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive considered the reports provided by the independent experts instructed to inspect Mrs S 
basement and damage to the tanking system. On balance, having considered the findings of 
all three independent experts, I dont think the evidence supports Mrs S assertion that 
flooding is the main cause of the damage being claiming for. 
Like most insurance policies, Mrs S doesnt provide cover for exclusions listed within the 
policy. Ive seen that Mrs S policy does not cover inherent defect. While Mrs S feels 
strongly that her tanking system was damaged directly because of the flood conditions 
impacting the basement in August 2020, the evidence Ive seen is more consistent with there 
being an inherent defect, and not flood damage. 
The report from company D refers to numerous issues, faults, and deficiencies in the 
existing waterproofing system. Ive considered the findings of the report which state battery 
operated pump is designed to engage, however this did not occur and jetting eyes which 
enable the cleaning and servicing of the system, which should be incorporated at each 
cornet and/ or every 10m linear run, have not been installed. I think these comments 
reasonable indicate inherent defects within the tanking system. These were likely made 
worse by the flooding incident in August 2020, but I dont think the evidence supports that 
the flooding incident was the cause of them. 
The independent experts from company SP and company WS also found similar issues 
which indicate that the problems with the tanking system go deeper than what would likely 
be cause by an incident of flooding. 
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mrs S. But insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where the damage isnt 
covered by the policy. I cant say that Hiscox have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mrs S claim. Because of this, I wont be asking Hiscox to do anything in settlement 
of this part of Mrs S complaint.   
Additional repairs to basement Hiscox have explained that the claim was settled on 12 October 2022 with a payment of 
£5,165 reflecting the flood damage repair work needed in the basement, [and] the holes left 
from the investigations carried out by [company SP] when assessing the Tanking System 
and the cost of an electrician to carry out repair work. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this amount and asked to instruct her own independent expert to 
complete a further report. Mrs S was provided with time to do this; however no additional 
evidence has been received from Mrs S. In the absence of any further evidence, Im satisfied 
the amount already paid fairly reflects the additional work required that falls within the scope 
of Mrs S claim, and the work required to put right the damage caused during the 
investigation by company SP. So I wont be directing any further payment is made for  
additional repairs to the basement. 
Customer service and delays on claim 
Mrs S has also complained about the level of service provided while company S were 
dealing with her claim. Mrs S has referred to several occasions where she tried to call 
company S but couldnt reach them. Shes also unhappy with the long periods of delay in 
dealing with her claim. 
Hiscox agree that the service provided wasnt in line with their usual service standards. 
Hiscox offered Mrs S £200 in recognition of the upset and inconvenience caused to Mrs S. 
The investigator increased this amount to £400 saying that this more fairly reflects the stress 
caused to Mrs S because of the poor handling of her claim.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators recommended compensation 
for this complaint for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Following instruction for Mrs S claim company S acted reasonably in instructing a third party 
to attend to Mrs S property arrange for the basement to be cleaned, decontaminated, and 
dried out. This was done within a reasonable timescale.
Mrs S has explained how she had to call company S several times regarding the outstanding 
repairs, and often without success. Company S have confirmed that they arranged for 
company AT to complete the outstanding repairs required to Mrs S basement. But several 
weeks after instruction, Mrs S still hadnt heard anything from company AT. 
I think company S couldve done more to chase company AT and ensure that the agreed 
repairs would be going ahead. Once it was confirmed that company AT couldnt carry out the 
required work, this shouldve been communicated to Mrs S in good time. As this didnt 
happen, Mrs S was left chasing company S for updates. I have taken this into consideration 
when determining fair compensation. 
There was a delay between February 2021 and November 2021 when Mrs S had trouble 
sourcing her own contractor, and company S being sent the report they needed to determine 
Mrs S claim for the tanking system. 
Company S say that the delays on the claim are largely due to the time taken for Mrs S to 
instruct an independent contractor. So they dont think they should pay compensation for 
delays that were out of their control. Its not disputed that company S had to wait for Mrs S to give them what they needed to 
further determine the case of damage to the tanking system. Mrs S was told in the email of 
10 February 2021 that company S were unable to source [a contractor] that deals with 
tanking. But Ive seen that company S did instruct independent experts in December 2021 to 
provide a Report commenting on the reason the Tanking System failed and whether it was 
necessary for the entire system to be stripped out and replaced as new.  
Its evident that Mrs S was unhappy with the decision not to pay for the repairs needed for 
her tanking system in February 2021. Company S could reasonably have found a suitable 
contractor in February 2021 (as they did in December 2021) to further investigate the reason 
for the tanking systems failure. In comparison to Mrs S, who was having difficulty sourcing a 
contractor, company S were in a better position to find a suitable expert for the job given 
their role as claim handlers in the process.
Although the findings of the report wouldve left Mrs S in exactly the same position regarding 
the outcome of her claim, it wouldve avoided unnecessary delays, and also inconvenience 
caused to Mrs S in having to source her own contractor. I think its fair that Hiscox pay 
compensation in recognition of the stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs S in having to 
source her own contractor, and delay on the claim that mightve reasonably been avoided. 
Company S shouldve had better oversight over the claim and the actions of any third parties 
instructed. They couldve also acted more promptly in instructing experts to determine the 
cause of damage with the tanking system. Because this didnt happen, Mrs S was left 
chasing company S for updates, and the issue with the tanking system went on for longer 
than it shouldve.   
When thinking about the impact on Mrs S, I think the £400 recommended by the investigator 
is fair and in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. This amount is in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mrs S by delays on her claim which couldve 
been avoided, and the upset caused by parts of the claim that were poorly handled, 
including the lack of meaningful updates and unanswered calls. 
Mrs S says the compensation awarded doesnt reflect the stress caused to her. I think Mrs S 
is ultimately unhappy with the outcome of her claim in respect of the tanking system. As this 
isnt covered by the policy I cant hold company S responsible for the upset caused to Mrs S 
by their decision not to pay for this part of Mrs S claim. I think £400 fairly recognises the 
impact on Mrs S by what went wrong with the handling of the claim, but also that the 
outcome of the claim remains unchanged.  
Putting things right
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited must pay £400 to Mrs S and Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman