DRN-3654193
The complaint
Mr P has complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) 
hasnt answered questions about his ongoing claim.
What happened
Mr P has an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Shepherds Friendly, which 
pays benefit if Mr P is unable to work due to illness or injury. 
Mr P made a claim which was accepted. He started work in a suited occupation and has 
been receiving proportionate benefit since 2019. 
Mr P wrote to Shepherds Friendly with a list of questions and scenarios. And asked 
Shepherds Friendly to confirm whether his understanding of the policy terms was correct  
and also asked questions where he wasnt sure and wanted confirmation of what would 
happen in specific, hypothetical scenarios. 
Shepherds Friendly responded but Mr P doesnt think its response is adequate. And he says 
this means he is unable to plan what to do about his employment. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Shepherds Friendly needed to do 
anything further as it had provided an adequate response to Mr Ps queries. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he had asked Shepherds 
Friendly further questions and it hadnt got back to him, which is unacceptable with a 
financial product. 
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator.  
Ive reviewed Mr Ps questions and Shepherd Friendlys response. I agree that Shepherds 
Friendly arent expected to provide detailed responses to hypothetical scenarios as they will 
need to properly assess a claim and circumstances as and when a situation changes. I am 
satisfied that it did provide sufficient responses, as far as reasonably possible. So I dont 
think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Shepherds Friendlys reply to Mr P confirmed:
When he earns more than the benefit amount due, the claim and plan ends. Once his 
sickness or injury has improved to such an extent that he is able to start earning from 
a suited occupation  entitlement to benefit stops.
If Mr Ps income doesnt exceed the benefit level, proportionate benefit will remain in 
payment.
If earnings are reduced for any reason other than ill health, the plan doesnt provide 
cover.
Proportionate benefit is assessed on the basis of the income an individual is well 
enough and able to earn.  There is no entitlement to proportionate benefit unless an 
individual is engaged in a suited occupation. And so no benefit is paid if an individual 
becomes unemployed unless they re-enter suited employment within nine months.
All of the above information is confirmed in the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr P has since asked further questions to which he says he hasnt received a response. 
However, I can only comment on the issues which have been investigated and which 
Shepherds Friendly has already had an opportunity to address. I cannot comment on any 
new concerns in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman