DRN-2291032
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has offered her for a
cancellation claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account.
Mrs F booked and paid for a Eurotunnel ticket. She was planning to travel abroad with her
husband and child. Unfortunately, Mrs F became unwell and had to cancel her trip. She
made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the cancellation costs she incurred.
UKI accepted the claim and agreed to pay it. It deducted two excesses from the settlement it
offered Mrs F  one for her and one for her husband, in line with the policy terms.
Mrs F wasnt happy with the deduction of an excess for her husband. She said shed paid for
the ticket herself and that the cost of the Eurotunnel was charged per vehicle. So the price
wouldve been the same whether shed travelled alone or with her family. Mrs F asked us to
look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mrs Fs
husband had been claiming under the policy. And he thought Mrs F had paid for her
husband to travel with her as a gift. So he didnt think it was fair for UKI to deduct an excess
for Mrs Fs husband from the settlement amount.
UKI disagreed. It said that Mrs Fs husband was going on the trip and should be treated as a
traveller. It said it wouldve applied an excess if hed claimed under another section of the
policy, so an excess should also apply here. And it said it wouldnt cover the costs of gifts
under the policy.
I issued my provisional decision on 29 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it was fair for UKI to apply two excesses to Mrs Fs 
claim. In summary, I thought the policy terms meant it was fair for UKI to consider Mrs Fs 
husband as an insured person in line with the policy terms and that hed have been covered 
by the policy if the trip had gone ahead and he needed to make a claim. So I thought it was 
fair for UKI to take him into account when it considered what excess should be paid. And I 
didnt think there was enough evidence to show me that Mrs F had booked the whole trip as 
a gift for her husband.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
UKI had nothing further to add.
Mrs F didnt accept my provisional decision. She said:
Shed sent a copy of her named ticket, which shed solely paid for. The trip was 
originally work related, but the requirement later changed, so shed decided to take 
her family. She said the cost couldnt have been recovered even if she had made the 
journey for work.
Whether or not she took her family, the ticket cost would remain the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to apply two excess to Mrs Fs 
claim and Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mrs Fs policy. It defines what is meant by an
excess. It says:
An excess is the amount we will deduct from a claim. This amount is paid per insured
person claiming.
An insured person is defined as: the account holder, their partner, any dependent children
and any guest.
So Im still satisfied that Mrs Fs husband was an insured person in line with the policy terms 
and that hed have been covered for the trip if it had gone ahead as planned. This means I 
think it was fair for UKI to take him into account when it considered what excess should 
apply to the claim.
Its clear that the ticket booking was made in Mrs Fs name. And I also accept that 
regardless of how many people travelled, the cost of the ticket wouldve remained the same.
But Im still not persuaded that Mrs F has shown, on balance, that she paid for the trip as a 
gift for her family. Theres no dispute that originally, Mrs F told UKI that the trip had been 
booked for her by her employer. Shes kindly provided us with a copy of her booking, 
together with a photo of a Visa card payment for the amount of the trip. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, it simply isnt clear to me from the evidence I 
have whether the card that was used to pay for the trip was Mrs Fs own account, whether it 
was linked to a joint account or whether it was a business card. I cant see the account 
holder details  simply the end of the card number and the amount that was paid. And while 
this amount matches up with the cost of the ticket, I simply havent seen enough evidence to 
show me that its most likely this payment came from Mrs Fs sole account and was intended 
as a gift for her family.
So overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Fs position, Im still satisfied that it was fair for UKI to 
apply two excesses to her claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman