DRN-2719806
The complaint
Ms K complains that she was mis-sold packaged bank accounts by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
Ms K had a fee free account with Lloyds from December 2007.
She upgraded to a Silver account in November 2010 following a discussion in a branch.
Ms K further upgraded to a Gold account online in September 2011.
And she finally upgraded to a Platinum account in April 2012 following another discussion in 
a branch.
Ms K says all the fee-paying accounts were mis-sold as she was told she had to take them 
to increase her overdraft and she was pressurised into upgrading each time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. Ms K disagrees and so the case has come 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill consider each of the three upgrades separately.
Sale of the Silver account
In November 2010 the Silver account benefits included European travel insurance, AA car 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and Sentinel card protection. 
Ms K had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft facility with Lloyds, so she 
knew these were available. Lloyds has provided evidence that she did not increase her 
overdraft facility after taking out the Silver account. Lloyds has provided a copy of Ms Ks 
application form where she has signed to say she has received all the information about the 
account. It has also provided evidence that she travelled regularly, and recorded that she 
was interested in the car breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance.
So, I think its more likely than not that Ms K chose to take out the Silver account based on 
the advice and information Lloyds gave her; it was suitable for her and there wasnt any 
information that she didnt receive that would have put her off it.
Sale of the Gold account
The Gold account provided the same main benefits as the Silver account but with worldwide 
travel insurance and a £100 interest free overdraft facility.
Ms K took this account out online, so she would have seen the relevant information about 
the account and then chosen to take out the account based on that.
Ms K had already had the Silver account, which Ive found above she chose to take out, for 
nearly a year. From her accounts I can see that after taking out the Gold account Ms K used 
the overdraft regularly and generally stayed within the £100 fee free overdraft limit. So, I can 
see why she might have been interested in it, and I think its more likely than not it was 
suitable for the same reasons Ive given above.
Sale of the Platinum account
The Platinum account provided the same main benefits as the Gold account but with family 
worldwide travel insurance and a £250 interest free overdraft facility.
Ms K had already had the Silver and Gold accounts for 18 months which Ive found above 
she chose to take out. Lloyds has provided a copy of Ms Ks application form for the 
Platinum account where she has signed to say she has received all the information about it. 
From her accounts I can see that after taking out the Platinum account, Ms K used the 
overdraft regularly and generally stayed within the £250 fee free overdraft limit. Lloyds has a 
record that she said she was upgrading to add her daughter to the travel insurance. And she 
used both the mobile phone insurance and the car breakdown service. 
So, I think its more likely than not that she was interested in the Platinum account and chose 
to take it out based on the information and advice that Lloyds gave her; it was suitable for 
her and there wasnt any information that she didnt receive that would have put her off it.
For completeness, Ms K has put forward evidence that she didnt have a driving licence until 
2015. But the AA car breakdown covered her whether she was the driver of a vehicle or not. 
And the legitimate and proper claim she made in 2014 was while travelling in a friends 
vehicle. 
So, my overall conclusion is that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in these sales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman