DRN-2563943
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) dealt with an 
application for Premium Bonds.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C say that Mr C applied for Premium Bonds in January 2020. They say the 
application was posted from abroad where they live but NS&I say it was not received. Mr 
and Mrs C say they spoke to NS&I at length about this and made a further application that 
required certified documents. In summary they say it took until the end of 2020 for the 
application to be approved and in that time, they lost out on potential winnings. Mr and Mrs C 
would like compensation for what took place and question why NS&I didnt tell them at the 
start of the process what they needed to do to set up an account.
NS&I says its not responsible for the delivery of the mail and didnt receive the original 
application. It says it tried to help Mr and Mrs C with the second application and although 
they live abroad, used its discretion to open the account.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought NS&I had dealt fairly 
with it and wasnt responsible for the missing application form. The investigator thought NS&I 
was entitled to decide what its process is for dealing with applications from abroad and had 
tried to help Mr and Mrs C open the account.
Mr and Mrs C dont accept that view and in summary say the first application was the first 
item of their mail that has gone missing. They say NS&Is website is dire and ought to have 
been told what they needed to send to it at the start of the process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision. I can also see that it was Mr C 
that eventually bought the Premium Bonds but I think this is a complaint overall by both Mr C 
and Mrs C and so I dont think it ought to be in Mr Cs sole name.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say they sent off the Premium Bond application in January 2020 
and they have not experienced lost mail in the past. But NS&I say they didnt receive the 
application and so in those circumstances I cant fairly hold it responsible for that lost 
application as its not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail.
I also make clear to Mr and Mrs C that its up to NS&I to decide what its process is for 
opening Premium Bond accounts and in circumstances when the applicant lives abroad. We 
are not NS&Is regulator and so we cant fairly order it to change that process.
Im satisfied that NS&I tried to help Mr and Mrs C with the account opening process and can 
see it used its discretion to allow an account to be opened online. I accept that took some 
time and that some of what NS&I suggested didnt work. But I think the key point is that Im 
satisfied NS&I tried to help Mr and Mrs C and that assistance worked, as I can see by 
October 2020 the account had been opened. I dont think NS&I is responsible for that delay.
Overall, I accept the delay would have caused Mr and Mrs C inconvenience, but I dont find 
that was due to any mistakes made by NS&I and that it tried to assist with the problem. For 
that reason, I cant fairly order NS&I to pay the compensation Mr and Mrs C would like and 
its not my role to comment on its website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman