DRN-2657641
The complaint
Ms H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has applied a credit to her account in error. 
What happened
During 2019 Ms H experienced several issues with transactions on her Lloyds credit card 
account. Lloyds explained, at the time, that the transactions related to a transaction she had 
previously disputed. But Ms H was unhappy with the situation which she felt amounted to 
Lloyds staff interfering with her account, so she closed her credit card account.
In August 2020, a credit transaction was applied to Ms Hs Lloyds current account. The 
transaction had the narrative DD REFUND and the payment type was described as BGC. 
Ms H initially thought this related to a refund from her electricity supplier. But she later 
realised this wasnt the case. So, having no knowledge of what the transaction related to, 
and being concerned that her bank account was now being interfered with, she contacted 
Lloyds and asked it to remove the credit from her account.
Lloyds said the credit was not applied by it. Having looked into the origin of the credit, it said 
it was credit processed directly to Ms Hs account by a third-party  a broadband provider. 
As the payment wasnt applied by it, Lloyds didnt agree it had done anything wrong. And, as 
the payment was credited by a third party, it said it couldnt debit her account with the 
amount of the payment.  
Unhappy with Lloyds response Ms H referred the complaint to us. She said she hasnt had 
any dealings with the third-party Lloyds said the credit had come from. She maintained that 
the payment shouldnt have been credited to her account and wanted it removed.
One of our investigators looked into the matter, but she didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. She agreed with Lloyds that the payment had been credited to Ms Hs 
account directly by a third-party business which provided broadband services. She noted 
that the third-party company had confirmed it also provided broadband services on behalf of 
two other companies  one of which Ms H acknowledged having previously used. So, she 
thought it was most likely that the payment related to that company. She suggested that    
Ms H should contact the third-party for more information. But she didnt uphold the complaint 
about Lloyds.  
Ms H didnt accept this outcome. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
For clarity, I should explain that this decision solely relates to the circumstances concerning 
the credit applied to Ms Hs Lloyds bank account in August 2020. The circumstances 
concerning Ms Hs Lloyds credit card account and the comments Ms H has made about the 
service we have provided and information on our website dont form part of this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms H has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view - that Lloyds has acted wrongly, which I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety. So, I trust that Ms H will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, I must 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  what I think has most likely happened 
given the information I do have.
Ive carefully considered what happened and whether Lloyds has made an error  such that 
it needs to put right. And, while Im sorry that Im going to disappoint Ms H, Ill explain why I 
dont think it has.
I can see that Lloyds has said the disputed credit payment was not made by it. It says the 
payment was a direct credit from a third-party  a broadband service provider. 
And I can see from Ms Hs Lloyds bank account statements that, in August 2020, a payment 
of £15.98 was credited to her account. The narrative quoted DD refund and the payment 
type was BGC. 
Having thought carefully about this, Im satisfied that BGC stands for Bank Giro Credit  
this is confirmed at the bottom of Ms Hs statement. And I think this denotes the payment as 
being a third-party credit. I say this because direct credits are often expressed in this way. 
For example, I can see Ms H is in receipt of another payment into her account made via the 
same source  a payment from the Department of Work and Pensions. And I think DD 
refund is direct debit refund. So, I think its most likely the payment was a refund linked to a 
direct debit arrangement Ms H has or has previously had in place with a third-party.  
In addition, Lloyds has since provided a screenshot detailing the source of the funds and the 
intended destination. Im satisfied that the details provided match Ms Hs bank account 
number and sort code and the payment came from the broadband provider Lloyds has 
referred to. 
Having taken all this into account, Im satisfied the payment was made directly to Ms Hs 
account by a third-party  rather than Lloyds applying the credit to Ms Hs account.  
I acknowledge that Ms H has said she has never had any dealings with that third-party 
business. So, I can understand why shes concerned the payment isnt due to her and has 
been credited incorrectly. 
But as our investigator explained, she contacted the third-party directly. While it couldnt 
provide any specific details about payments made to Mrs H for data protection purposes, it 
was able to confirm that it also provided broadband services for two other companies. And I 
can see Ms H has acknowledged that she has previously held a broadband contract with 
one of these companies. 
Of course, I cant rule out that the third-party has made a mistake. But that isnt something I 
can hold Lloyds responsible for. If Ms H wants more information, it is I think for her to contact 
the third-party to make her own enquiries with it.
In light of the above, Im satisfied that the payment made to Ms Hs account was a direct 
credit paid to Ms Hs account by a third-party rather than a transaction generated by Lloyds. So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when the credit was applied to Ms H account. 
And as the payment came from a third-party, I cant ask Lloyds to remove it from Ms Hs 
account. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman