DRN-4490869
The complaint
Mr T and the estate of the late Mrs T complain that Ancile Insurance Group Ltd mis-sold Mr 
and Mrs T a single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs T took out a single trip travel insurance policy online. The policy 
was sold by Ancile and underwritten by an insurer Ill call R. During the online sales process, 
Mr T answered some questions about Mrs Ts health. He believed that hed correctly gone 
through medical screening and declared Mrs Ts medical conditions. The policy sale 
completed.
Unfortunately, while Mr and Mrs T were on holiday, Mrs T was taken seriously unwell and 
was admitted to hospital. So Mr and Mrs T made a medical expenses claim on their policy. 
However, R turned down the claim. Thats because it said Mr and Mrs T hadnt specifically 
declared Mrs Ts medical history when they took out the policy.
Mr T complained both about Rs decision to turn down the claim and because he didnt think 
the policy had been sold fairly. He maintained that he had declared Mrs Ts medical 
conditions during the online sales process and hed completed the online application as hed 
been directed to.
Another ombudsman has already decided a complaint about Rs decision to turn down Mr 
and Mrs Ts claim. 
So our investigator looked into a complaint about the sale of the policy by Ancile. He didnt 
think Ancile had recommended that Mr and Mrs T should take out the policy and so he didnt 
think it had needed to ensure the policy was suitable for them. He considered a copy of the 
online sales process Ancile said applied at the time the policy was taken out. The 
investigator acknowledged that Mr T had answered six questions about Mrs Ts health 
during the policy sale. However, he noted that Mr T would have needed to add information 
about each of Mrs Ts specific medical conditions during the online sales process in order to 
add cover for each of those conditions. It didnt appear that these conditions had been 
added.
And the investigator noted that Mr T would have been given a clear online warning prior to 
proceeding with the sale which stated that while Mr T had indicated that he or Mrs T had 
medical conditions which needed to be declared, no medical declaration had been made. 
The online warning referred to the possible implications of failing to make a medical 
declaration. He felt that Mr T would also have been required to actively choose to proceed 
with the application without making a medical declaration. So he didnt think Ancile had 
made any error when it sold Mr and Mrs T the policy. 
Mr T disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He maintained that 
hed followed the online instructions during the sales process and had given detailed 
information about Mrs Ts medical conditions. He questioned why he wouldnt have saved 
the declarations, given the time it had taken him to input the medical information. Instead, he 
felt Ancile had failed to save the declarations hed made. He said that at no time had he 
been told that he couldnt take out the policy if he hadnt included a medical declaration. He 
maintained that he hadnt seen an online warning during the sales process. Additionally, he 
referred to the clarity of the policy documentation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T, I dont think Ancile has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr T for the loss of Mrs T. I understand this 
has been a very upsetting time for Mr T and his family. Id also like to reassure Mr T that 
while Ive summarised the background to his complaint and his submissions to us, Ive 
carefully considered all thats been said and sent. In this decision though, I havent 
commented on each point thats been raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
I must also make it clear that this decision will only consider the way Ancile sold Mr and Mrs 
Ts travel insurance policy. I appreciate that Mr T has referred to the post-sale 
documentation, but this was considered by another ombudsman when they decided whether 
R had fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. So I wont be looking at the clarity of the policy 
schedule or post-sale documents here.
Both parties accept that Mr and Mrs T took out the travel insurance policy online. Having 
looked at the online sales process Ancile has provided, its clear that Ancile didnt carry out 
an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ts demands and needs. Nor did it recommend that they 
should take out the policy. This means that Ancile didnt need to check that the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T. But it did need to give them enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the cover so that they could decide if it was right for them.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs Ts claim was declined because R concluded that they hadnt 
declared Mrs Ts medical conditions during Anciles online sales process. Mr T says that he 
did declare Mrs Ts conditions and that Ancile failed to save the information hed input. 
Therefore, I think the main issue I need to decide is whether I consider Ancile gave Mr and 
Mrs T enough clear, fair and not misleading information during the online sales process to 
highlight the necessity for a full medical declaration to be made and the process for doing so.
Ancile has provided us with a copy of the sales process it says applied at the time Mr and 
Mrs T took out the policy. I understand that Mr T has seen a copy of the sales journey and 
has had an opportunity to comment on it. While I appreciate that Mr T has concerns that this 
wasnt the same sales process he followed, Im satisfied that this is most likely to be an 
accurate reflection of the online application he completed. So Ive next gone on to consider 
what information Mr and Mrs T would most likely have been shown during the sales journey.
The relevant part of the online sales process section is titled Medical Declaration. The 
section asked five yes or no questions, including whether an applicant had a medical 
condition; had attended a hospital, or had a terminal prognosis. As Mr and Mrs T stated that 
Mrs T had had a terminal prognosis, they were presented with a sixth question, asking how 
long the prognosis was from the return of their trip. In my view, these were clear and easily 
understandable questions. Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs T answered these questions honestly and their answers were saved during the quotation process.
Next, an applicant is shown a box called Medical Screening. Immediately underneath the 
title, the following information is shown:
Please note: You must now declare all existing medical conditions as well as any previous 
medical conditions you have had that fall within the medical declaration questions.
You must answer all questions accurately and honestly. If you dont, for example by 
declaring some conditions and not others, your policy may be cancelled, or treated as if it 
never existed, and your claims may be rejected or not fully paid. This could result in you 
being responsible for paying your own emergency medical costs abroad.
If you do not know the answer to a specific question you may need to contact your doctor.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs T had answered the six initial questions, I think Anciles sales 
process makes it sufficiently clear that an applicant needs to go on to provide it with a 
declaration of their medical history. An applicant does have the opportunity to continue the 
sale without adding any medical conditions. But Anciles sales process shows that if an 
applicant chooses not to add any medical conditions during this stage, the following pop-up 
warning screen appears:
You have not declared any medical conditions.
Your answers to the medical declaration indicate that you have a medical condition which 
you need to declare to us.
You must declare all existing medical conditions. If you dont, your policy may be cancelled, 
or treated as if it never existed, and your claims may be rejected or not fully paid. This could 
result in you being responsible for paying your own emergency medical costs abroad.
Continue without declaring any conditions.
I think Anciles sales process clearly highlights that, in these circumstances, its noted a 
potential policyholder has a medical condition they need to declare, but that they havent 
done so. Im also satisfied that Ancile has specifically set out the potential implications on 
cover if an applicant chooses to take out the policy without declaring any relevant medical 
conditions.
If an applicant does wish to make a medical declaration, theyre directed to Add condition. 
Once a condition has been added from a drop-down list, an applicant is given a further list of 
questions to answer about that specific condition. An applicant is able to add as many 
conditions as necessary to their screening. Once an applicant has added their conditions, 
then they are directed to either Edit, Remove or Save conditions. Again, in my view, this 
part of the sales process is clearly laid out in a not misleading way.
The sales process shows that theres no way to move forward with the policy application 
unless an applicant chooses to save, edit or remove the conditions theyve entered. So it 
appears that an applicant is actively required to choose one of those options before they can 
proceed with the policy sale.
It's clear how strongly Mr T believes that he did declare and save Mrs Ts conditions. And 
that he wasnt given any online warning during the process that he hadnt made such a 
declaration. Ive thought about this carefully. Where theres a dispute about whats 
happened, I need to make a decision on the balance of probabilities  that is to say, what I think is most likely to have happened based on the available evidence and the 
circumstances.
 As Ive explained, I think its most likely that Ancile has provided us with an accurate version 
of the sales process Mr T followed. The sales process asks clear questions, provides clear 
information about the steps an applicant needs to take to declare their medical conditions 
and highlights the potential consequences on cover if medical conditions arent declared. 
The sales process demonstrates that following the addition of a medical condition, an 
applicant cant move forward with an application unless they save or remove the condition. 
As Mrs Ts conditions werent saved, it seems more likely than not that if Mr T did add the 
conditions, he removed them in error before continuing with the policy. Alternatively, its 
possible that Mr T answered the initial six questions and didnt go on to add Mrs Ts specific 
conditions. Its possible too that he no longer recalls the warning pop-up highlighting that no 
declaration had been made. 
Overall then, I think Ancile provided Mr and Mrs T with clear, fair and not misleading 
information during the policy sale. And that it clearly highlighted the potential implications on 
claims or on policy cover if a full medical declaration wasnt made. So whilst I sympathise 
with Mr Ts position, I dont find that Ancile did anything wrong when it sold him the policy or 
that it needs to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and the 
estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman