DRN-3662151
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
AJH Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to AJH.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to AJH 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. 
Information was gathered by AJH, about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives at the time of 
the recommendation. Ive noted there were some errors in these documents. For example, 
the fact-find got Mr Bs age wrong, and there appears significant errors relating to either the 
dates of birth or ages of all his children. Also, the transfer analysis said he was married, 
rather than him being unmarried. In fact, his correct circumstances were broadly as follows:
Mr B was 32 years old, unmarried but with a partner and three dependent children. 
He was in good health and at that point he had accrued over four years of pension 
benefits with the BSPS.
Mr B and his partner jointly also owned a home together valued at around £240,000, 
with a mortgage of around £101,000 which had 23 years left to run.
Mr B earned around £35,000 per year. AJH didnt record details of Mr Bs partner.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs BSPS was described by AJH in 
the transfer analysis and suitability report as being £39,140 (this was later 
reassessed to a slightly higher value) and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
AJH said Mr B wanted to retire early if possible, at the age of 60.
AJH set out its advice in a suitability letter and report on 10 November 2017. It advised him 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension arrangement. AJH 
said this would allow Mr B to achieve his objectives. Mr B accepted this advice and so 
transferred to a personal pension. In 2021 Mr B complained to AJH about its advice, saying 
he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, AJH said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AJH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Ive also comprehensively considered AJHs responses to the complaint, outlined in a letter 
from AJHs representative, dated 20 May 2022. Ive considered everything thats been said 
with great care, however, Ive rightly focussed more on the issues which affect the outcome 
of the complaint. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, AJH should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Circumstances of the time
Before I go into detail about what I think about this case, Im going to deal with the timeline of 
events. AJHs representative has implied there was so little known about the future for BSPS 
at the time this advice was given  and that no-one could be sure BSPS2 was even going 
ahead.
But I dont agree with this. Weve seen many similar complaints to this one and so weve 
learned a great deal about what was happening at the time. We know, for example, that on 
11 August 2017, Mr Bs employer confirmed the terms of an agreement with the pensions 
regulator about the next steps for separating the BSPS from the company. This included a 
lump sum payment into the pension fund and the announcement included confirmation that 
agreement had also been reached about the sponsorship, by Mr Bs employer, of the 
BSPS2. Then in late August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS 
transfer values. This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by the 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer valuations, as in this case, updated valuations would be issued around 
October 2017 and guaranteed until at least December 2017.
On 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed payment 
had been made into the BSPS by the employer and the separation of the BSPS from the 
company had been completed. This set out that members would have to make a choice 
between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and it explained that personalised 
information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with that choice. 
Members would have until December 2017 to decide. 
AJH was dealing with Mr B throughout all these events and I think it would have been 
monitoring events closely. I can see, for instance, its fact-find was dated 24 August 2017, 
the transfer analysis was 14 September 2017, and the suitability report (with the eventual 
recommendation) was dated 10 November 2017.
Financial viability 
AJH referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Bs case, I think its important to point out 
that AJH could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out, 
rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. AJHs representative said the 
analysis carried out at the time referred to the existing scheme, rather than BSPS2.
As the advice was dated 10 November 2017, we know that by then BSPS members had 
been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to move into a new 
scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had also been put on a 
microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and many details of the BSPS2 
had emerged by the time AJH produced its suitability report. So, as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the existing scheme rather than the new one, 
to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr B the best opportunity to make an informed 
decision about what to do. 
Nevertheless, I think its also fair to say that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 
critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much 
closer to the existing scheme (BSPS). 
AJH said the critical yields for retiring at the NRA of 65 were 5.7% if taking a full pension, 
without a tax-free lump sum and 5% if eventually taking a reduced pension together with a 
tax-free lump sum. And for early retirement, at the age of 60, the critical yields were 6.1% 
and 5.2% respectively. 
These quotes were based on a single life annuity, rather than a joint one. Mr B wasnt 
currently married, but Ive noted he and his partner had three children together and they 
jointly owned their family home. A significant time after the complaint had been made, AJHs 
representative said Mr B was unsure if hed ever marry. But Ive not seen this reflected in 
documentation from the time of the sale. Ive noted that a joint life annuity in similar 
scenarios to those Ive described above tended to push the critical yield higher, typically by 
around another %. 
In any event, AJH implied reaching the critical yield levels of growth was achievable, but I 
havent seen clear evidence to support this. 
I say this because the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period just before 1 October 2017 
and was 4.7% per year for 32 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. The discount rate for retiring at 60 was 4.6%. 
So, the discount rates infer that reaching the yields above would be more unlikely than likely. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. AJH 
categorised Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) as medium. The regulators middle rate here was 
still not above any of the critical yields  and even small percentage points, year-on-year, 
can make meaningful differences to growth over time. Ive also noted the personal pension 
providers own mid-growth assumption was only 3.5%. So, again, this was below the critical 
yield rates.
With these things in mind, I dont think AJH should have recommended that Mr B ought to 
transfer away from a DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. Nothing Ive seen 
shows Mr B would be likely to enjoy better financial pension benefits upon retiring, if he 
transferred away from his DB scheme option. The discount rates, the regulators projections 
and even the providers own figures were all pointing to growth assumptions below the 
critical yield rates. In my view, there would be little point in transferring away only to achieve 
lower financial benefits overall.Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, AJH also made mention of the PPF, a type of 
compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. AJH said the critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 was 5.2% per year and 4.9% if taking tax-free cash. But these 
yields related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and I dont think Mr B would 
have wanted to transfer to this scheme  AJH itself said this in the suitability report. Its also 
important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal 
pension would have further reduced the likely growth. So, the evidence isnt clear that the 
PPF critical yields could be exceeded either.
Ive noted that AJH also presented Mr B with certain scenarios where transferring out his 
pension to a personal arrangement could apparently enable him to draw a pension well into 
his old age. However, Ive looked at the examples given and I note that some of these 
amounts run out of funds before his average life expectancy age. And if remaining with a DB 
scheme such as BSPS2, the pension would last for all Mr Bs life. But more so, these 
examples werent comparing like with like as they lacked a direct compatibility with the DB 
scheme Mr B would be giving up.
What Ive seen therefore shows Mr B would most likely receive lower financial benefits at 
retirement if he transferred out. However, to be clear, AJHs recommendation that he should 
transfer out to a personal pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his 
current scheme alone. Rather, AJH said Mr B had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
AJH recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Bs wider 
objectives. Ive summarised the following themes, as supporting the recommendation to 
transfer away:
The ability to retire early. 
In a personal pension he could take more tax-free cash. AJH said Mr B preferred the 
increased flexibility in relation to when and how your benefits are accessed, 
specifically receiving higher amounts of income in the earlier years of retirement.
AJH said Mr B wanted his partner and children to benefit in the event of his death.
The future of the BSPS was a concern and Mr B didnt want to enter the PPF.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that AJH recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr B. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
AJH mentioned in various documents from the time of the advice that Mr B had said he 
wanted to retire early, potentially at the age of 60. Ive also noted AJHs representative 
makes some assertions about why Mr B would be likely to need to retire early, basically 
because of the industry he worked in. However, in my view these are somewhat baseless 
comments, unsubstantiated by any analysis or data.Nevertheless, I certainly dont doubt that Mr B might have genuinely hoped to retire early. 
But Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at 
that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr B was only 
32 years old at the time and he was in good health. And in these circumstances its simply 
not credible that he had any concrete plans for retirement at that point. 
AJH also promoted to Mr B that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But AJH should have 
been telling Mr B at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, potentially from his late fifties in his case, also came with consequences in that the 
amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
Even if I were to consider the highly unlikely scenario that Mr Bs retirement plans were more 
fixed than the mere aspirations set out by AJH - and he really did want to retire early - I think 
AJH should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of the 
BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have 
been an option for Mr B, although this would have meant Mr Bs pension benefits would 
have been somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But I 
think this was discounted by AJH as Ive seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with 
a view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Bs best interests. The advice simply 
focussed on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr B faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr B could yet be said to require flexibility in 
retirement in the way AJH suggested. AJH said that Mr Bs estimated annual pension upon 
his NRA was £4,376 per year or £2,906 if taking a tax-free lump sum of £19,333. As a DB 
pension this was guaranteed and index linked (with certain restrictions). 
However, as he was so young, it wasnt really possible to say what Mr Bs financial and 
income needs were likely to be in retirement. And I havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr B wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing 
his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. This is because, as 
well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr B had already joined his employers 
new defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been making contributions to it for 
up to thirty-two years more, until he retired. Mr Bs contributions to this second pension 
were being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to say that by 
retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in this DC 
pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr B could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing modest DB pension, 
but one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other 
hand, hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found 
he did require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what AJH said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. Ive also seen nothing 
which shows Mr B had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his 
pension. Mr Bs previous exposure to investing was not really known and he had no such 
investments at the time. And to grow the transferred funds in the way AJH implied he could, 
a higher degree of risk exposure would have been required.
So, I think Mr Bs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr B to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.
Death benefits 
AJH says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr B died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr B. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think saying Mr Bs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his early thirties and in 
good health, he and his partner had a family, a joint mortgage / home and joint life 
insurance. In my view, the likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme were 
therefore still relevant to Mr B. Even though he wasnt married at that point in time, in his 
circumstances this benefit needed to be thoroughly explained and considered. And from 
what Ive seen, the death benefits were substantially underplayed. 
If he did get married to his childrens mother, the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
would have been useful to her if Mr B predeceased her. As a father, I think the child specific 
benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr B because his children would be able to 
benefit from the DB scheme up until they left full-time education; and for them this was some 
time away. These were guaranteed benefits and they escalated  they were not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. I therefore dont think AJH made the value of this benefit clear enough. 
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left in a personal pension upon Mr Bs 
passing, particularly if he lived a long life. The main purpose of a pension is to provide 
retirement income. AJH should therefore not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that AJH took into account the fact that Mr B could have nominated 
someone else close to him as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, 
to this end, Mr B had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case although it was 
evidently mentioned at some point in the discussions. But at 32 years old, this would have 
been a reasonably affordable product if Mr B really did want to leave a legacy for someone such as a partner or children. A form of term insurance could have been considered, as 
opposed to a whole life policy which would be more expensive.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Bs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and AJH 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and AJH said 
he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr B was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was AJHs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Bs concerns about his scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AJH should 
have reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr B through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
reasonable portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees Ive mentioned. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns should have led to AJHs recommendation to Mr B to transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
I have already set out, at the beginning of this decision, what I think about the timeline of 
events. AJH strongly says that so little was known about the new scheme, which would of 
course mean that it advised Mr B to transfer out based on insufficient knowledge. However, I 
dont agree with this and Ive explained why AJH had the information it needed by 10 
November 2017 to provide advice.
AJH also say it was Mr B himself who came to it with a fixed view about transferring out. In 
my view, this simply demonstrates the weaknesses in AJHs approach. AJH was the 
regulated financial adviser here, and it was being paid to give advice. So, AJHs job wasnt 
just to transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted; its job was to really understand his 
circumstances and to provide advice that was in his best interests. I dont think it did this.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But AJH 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think AJH ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr B still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr B would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, if Mr B did eventually get married, then his 
wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr B chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think AJH should have advised Mr B to continue to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that AJH disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against AJHs advice. I say this because Mr B was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if AJH had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if AJH had explained Mr B was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think AJH should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for AJHs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remain as opted into joining the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal 
pension if he'd been given suitable advice. So, AJH should use the benefits offered by 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes, and retirement should be assumed as the NRA of 65 
years.On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
the complaint to be settled in line with new guidance / rules. I consider its fair that AJH 
calculates Mr Bs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come into effect. 
AJH must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and AJH has 
received notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AJH to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AJH deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. AJH should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Ive considered the impact on Mr B of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our investigator 
recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr B by AJH for what he referred to as 
the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into consideration Mr Bs 
age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
reasonable part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr B. I therefore agree that AJH should also pay Mr B £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an 
impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
I now direct AJH Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out 
in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does 
not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require AJH Financial Services Limited to pay Mr 
B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount 
already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AJH Financial Services Limited to pay Mr B 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
AJH Financial Services Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman