DRN-3822782
The complaint
Ms M complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to inform her that her endowment policy 
had matured in 2007. This error was only identified by Scottish Widows in 2022.  
Ms M does not believe that Scottish Widows has properly compensated her for its errors. 
She wants the amount of compensation she has been paid for distress to be increased.  
What happened
Ms M took out a Versatile Endowment Plan through Scottish Widows in May 1987. The 
policy had a twenty-year term and was due to mature in May 2007. 
On 24 June 2022, Scottish Widows wrote to Ms M setting out that it had conducted a recent 
review and found that she had not claimed the policy proceeds at the maturity date. So, it 
had calculated the policys final value (£13,227.74) along with £4,229.67 gross interest on 
the capital up to 30 June 2022. From this payment it deducted tax from the interest of 
£859.94 and sent Ms M a cheque for the remaining balance of £16,667.47. 
Ms M complained the following week, noting she had lack of access to the matured funds 
and she did not know how the payment was broken down. During a call with Scottish 
Widows, it was explained to Ms M that the interest payment was based on the rate of return 
for the capital within the policy over the unclaimed period. However, Ms M felt Scottish 
Widows hadnt accounted for her inability to use the money since 2007. Ms M also said she 
wanted to be compensated for the fifteen years it took Scottish Widows to resolve things.  
On 21 July 2022, Scottish Widows upheld the complaint. It agreed to pay a further 8% 
interest on the policy proceeds of £11,706.98 which net of tax came to £9,365.59. It also 
paid Ms M £500 for the distress that its actions had caused her.  
 
Ms M remained unsatisfied. In August 2022, she referred her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She 
said that Scottish Widows had correctly compensated Ms M on the basis that her 
endowment maturity value had been unclaimed, by paying appropriate interest. She also felt 
that the payment of £500 was fair in the circumstances of the upset Ms M had been caused.  
Ms M said she did not accept the investigators view on the complaint. She explained about 
her serious health issues and said that Scottish Widowss behaviour had impacted her 
detrimentally, given how unwell she already was. If she had received the funds sooner, she 
might have been able to improve her financial wellbeing. She felt that £500 compensation 
didnt adequately reflect the upset she had been caused as a vulnerable person. 
Ms M then sent a further letter outlining why she believed the complaint ought to be upheld. 
She said that Scottish Widowss complaints manager had given vague reasons as to why 
£500 compensation was being awarded, and then merely directed her to this service. 
She reiterated that during the period where the policy had matured but lay dormant, she had 
become concerned about affording a basic means of living due to her health conditions. She 
was unable to work on account of her multiple conditions, surgeries and rehabilitation and 
the funds from the matured policy would have gone some way to alleviating her mental 
wellbeing, which had been impacted by her medical and financial circumstances. 
Finally, Ms M said she was unhappy with how the complaint manager had handled two calls 
with her, where she was suffering with organ impairment as a consequence of long COVID.   
After further discussion with our investigator, Ms M made some additional written 
submissions reiterating her concerns about Scottish Widowss complaint manager, her 
vulnerability in 2022, and her concerns that she is still having to exhaust her time and efforts 
on this complaint some five months later. 
Scottish Widows didnt have any further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I send my best wishes to Ms M. I recognise that the combined circumstances of her 
illnesses, her treatment and dealing with this complaint have been particularly tough for her. 
However, I cannot merely uphold a complaint because of my sympathy for a complainant; I 
have to be fair to both parties. It is my view that this complaint should not succeed. I realise it 
will not be what Ms M has hoped for, but Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion below.  
In 2007, Ms M was made aware that her policy had matured. I note this because she 
completed and returned a form entitled authority for payment of a claim, giving confirmation 
of the bank account where the proceeds of the investment ought to be paid.  
It simply isnt possible to know why neither party then followed the matter up; but it did not 
come to light that the maturity value remained unclaimed until Scottish Widows undertook a 
company-wide rectification project in 2022, noting that Ms M was a customer whose funds 
had remained unclaimed.  
I agree that Scottish Widows was in an empowered position and it ought to have sought to 
inform Ms M sooner than 2022 that her investment proceeds had not been paid out. 
We are not a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So I wont 
be making findings on the reasonableness of the rectification project. My remit is to decide 
whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in all of the circumstances. It is clear that 
the proceeds ought to have been paid to Ms M within a reasonable time upon maturity of the 
endowment policy. This didnt happen. Notwithstanding the upset Ms M has been placed 
under, the correct response to a businesss mistake is to put a complainant in the position 
they would have been in, but for that mistake.
Scottish Widows has applied fair redress in these circumstances. It has firstly calculated the 
interest that would have been earned had the funds held at maturity remained invested up to 
June 2022 using the applicable bond rates for each month. It has provided Ms M with a 
complete breakdown of those calculations. It has returned this sum to her (net of tax) along 
with the maturity value which should have been paid in 2007.  
To this sum, Scottish Widows has then calculated a further 8% interest (net of tax and 
offsetting the interest already received from the first calculation). And finally, it has paid Ms M £500 for the upset she has been caused upon discovering these funds were never 
released to her as they should have been in 2007.  
I do not believe that Scottish Widows should calculate interest any differently than it has or 
make any other redress payment. If an award had been made by this service whereby we 
uphold a complaint about a delayed payment of investment proceeds, we would look to 
place the complainant in the position theyd be in if the maturity value had been rightly paid. 
Scottish Widows has rightly gone further and determined the interest Ms Ms money would 
have earned in the interim if it had remained invested  because she has not had this 
chance to do so herself.  
I do not believe any further sum should be added to that lost investment opportunity. In any 
event, Ms M has said she would have used the funds to pay for basic care needs and 
household bills, as opposed to reinvesting them.  
We may also include interest awards on top of compensation awards when redressing a loss 
a complainant has suffered. This separate interest award (in most cases, simple interest of 
8% after April 1993) is intended to compensate a complainant for being deprived of money 
that they would otherwise have been able to use elsewhere but for the business having 
made a mistake of some kind  in this case, in not paying the maturity value for the 
endowment policy at an earlier, defined point when it should have been settled.
Scottish Widows has rightly calculated 8% interest on the maturity value and paid this to Ms 
M. I do not believe it should be required to do anything more.  
As I noted above, Scottish Widows has paid £500 for the upset Ms M has been caused. She 
contends that this sum ought to be higher, because of the impact on her mental and physical 
health and because she is unhappy with how Scottish Widowss complaint manager spoke 
with her and his handling of the complaint. 
I must firstly note that complaints to this service do need to be about specific regulated 
activities or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by a business in relation to 
regulated activities (such as the administration of an investment). Complaint handling is not 
a regulated activity in its own right and does not fall within our jurisdiction. So I will not be 
considering any further financial award for the actions of Scottish Widowss complaint 
manager. I also understand Ms M has spoken directly with Scottish Widows to provide 
feedback about this concern.   
Though I do understand Ms M is very poorly, I dont believe Scottish Widowss actions have 
exacerbated matters such that I ought to make any further award here. It may be helpful for 
Ms M to review to the guidance available on our website around the amounts and types of 
awards made in instances of upset, trouble, inconvenience and distress caused by 
businesses in the complaints we see at this service. In reviewing this file, I noted that our 
investigator has sent her the relevant website link for this guidance.  
As well as putting right any financial losses in a complaint (though there are none here as 
the redress has been correctly settled by Scottish Widows), we also consider the emotional 
or practical impact of any errors on a complainant. In doing so, we do not fine or punish 
businesses; that duty falls to the FCA in its regulatory remit that I explained above.  
Taking into account the impact of the mistake Scottish Widows made, I find compensation of 
£500 was reasonable in the circumstances where discovering the payment hadnt been 
made sooner caused considerable worry, upset and concern for Ms M. This had a serious 
short-term impact on her and the proposal of £500 is within the range of awards I believe 
appropriate in this particular circumstance. I do not agree that any additional payment is warranted Scottish Widows paid out the 
correct redress, replied promptly to Ms M, gave clear breakdowns of its calculations and put 
right its error in failing to originally include 8% interest. I acknowledge Ms M has explained 
that if she had known of the maturity value, shed have been in a stronger financial position 
and the payment would have aided her financial worries greatly. However, Ms M was aware 
that the policy matured she completed the authority form received by Scottish Widows on 4 
June 2007 to receive the funds, but for some reason, did not follow this up further. So I 
cannot agree that Scottish Widows should pay any additional compensation on that basis.   
My final decision
Though I know how strongly Ms M feels about the matter, I believe Scottish Widows has 
correctly upheld her complaint with appropriate redress as well as offering fair compensation 
for distress in the circumstances. I do not believe I should ask it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman