DRN-3790772
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr C applied for a credit card in January 2017, he was given a credit limit of £200. The credit 
limit wasnt increased at any stage. The account defaulted in November 2017 with an 
outstanding balance of £396.77. Mr C says he notified Capital One of his mental health 
issues in February 2017, it agreed to put his account on hold and then in August 2017 it 
agreed to write off his balance. Capital One says it never made this arrangement.
Our investigator considered the information provided by Mr C and Capital One, and she 
didnt find the lending was irresponsible. She said the checks were proportionate, and based 
on the results Capital Ones lending decision was fair. She said there was no evidence in the 
contact reports the lender had provided that it had ever offered to write off the balance.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Capital One 
was lying, and had taken advantage of his circumstances at the time. It has shown no regard 
for his mental health, nor has it apologised for the distress all this has caused. He also 
questioned this services impartiality, saying we always seem to believe what the big 
business says to be true.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I want to respond to Mr Cs comment that we seem to always believe the big 
businesses. We are an independent and impartial organisation and we do not act on behalf
of financial services companies or consumers - it is not in our interest to find in favour of one 
party over the other.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint about unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
To decide if Capital One lent responsibly I need to consider if its checks were proportionate; 
if not what would better checks most likely have shown; then did it make a fair lending 
decision; and finally did it treat Mr C unfairly in some other way.
Mr C applied for a Capital One credit card in January 2017. On his application form he 
declared that he was employed with a gross annual income of £21,500. Capital One carried 
out a credit check. It has shared the results. They show Mr C had only £416 of debt with 
monthly repayments of £32. He had no history of defaulting on accounts. I think these 
checks were proportionate for a credit line of £200, and there was nothing in the results that I 
think ought to have led Capital One to make a different lending decision. There was no 
information to suggest Mr C might struggle to manage the credit.
It follows I dont think Capital One was wrong to give the card and opening credit limit of 
£200 to Mr C.
I have then reviewed the chronology and detail of the contact Mr C had with Capital One. I 
dont doubt he has provided his honest recollection of what was agreed, but I have to decide 
what I think is most likely based on the available evidence. I can find no reference to the 
commitment to write off his balance that he says the lender made in August 2017. And 
Capital Ones records seem complete. They show Capital One sent Mr C an Income and 
Expenditure form in August to allow the parties to try to agree a payment plan. I think it is 
unlikely it would have done this had it already agreed to write off the balance. It chased this 
form in September as it wasnt returned. As a result it then followed the correct process to 
default Mr Cs account.
I am sorry this has been distressing for Mr C, but based on the available evidence I cant 
fairly conclude Capital One treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman