DRN-1536388
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester. Mr S says this cover was mis-sold to 
him.
For consistency Ill refer to Lloyds in my decision.
Background
These events took place a long time ago and relate to three MPPI policies that were sold 
alongside mortgages. Mr S took out an initial mortgage in early 1998. He borrowed more 
money on two more occasions; in early 1999 and again in late 1999. Each loan was 
protected by MPPI.
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
My experience from these particular mortgage sales from around the time period in question 
is that consumers were usually asked to choose whether or not they wanted MPPI on their 
mortgage when they completed their mortgage application form. Another step was then 
usually required, in the form of a separate MPPI application. This went in to more detail 
about the type of protection they wanted and who should be covered.
We no longer have access to any of these applications, but given they are well over 20 years 
ago, this is neither surprising nor unusual. However, knowing what I do about these sales, I 
think that on each occasion there was probably a question in the application form about 
MPPI and yes and no option boxes for Mr S to select, depending on whether or not he 
wanted the cover. 
When Mr S took out more borrowing, he would have followed broadly the same process, 
basically agreeing to have MPPI each time. And on each occasion he also would have 
probably filled out a specific MPPI application form too. So I think its more likely that Mr S 
agreed to the MPPI cover and would have known each time that he had a choice.
Its not disputed that the MPPI was recommended each time to Mr S as part of advised 
sales. This means Lloyds had a duty to ensure the MPPI was suitable for him.  I think it was.This is because Mr S was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the MPPI also seems 
affordable on each occasion, given the protection the policies offered him. 
Mr S had only limited sickness protection provided through his job, so I think the cover was 
of use. The mortgage(s) were secured against his home and so the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful 
claim, the MPPI would have paid out a monthly sum for up to 12 months.
I therefore dont think Lloyds recommending MPPI was unreasonable and I think the cover 
was suitable for Mr S.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously 
cant confirm what would have been said to Mr S and its possible Lloyds could have done a 
better job in explaining things. But I think he probably met with a mortgage adviser each time 
who would have assessed his financial situation. I also think its highly likely Mr S would 
have known the costs of the MPPI on all three occasions. 
Finally, I also think its likely hed have been given accompanying documents explaining the 
terms. So I think he had enough information on which to make an informed choice about 
what he wanted to do. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I dont think the policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank plc to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman