DRN-3748916
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc blocked a payment to another account in his name 
and blocked his account. 
What happened
Mr M had accounts with Bank of Scotland and with other banks. In November 2021 he tried 
to make a transfer of £16,000 from his Bank of Scotland account to another account in his 
name. The banks fraud prevention system prevented the payment from being completed 
and triggered a text message asking Mr M to contact the bank to confirm that the payment 
was genuine. 
Mr M contacted the bank  although he says it was difficult and time-consuming to do so  
and was able to answer security questions. The transfer was completed. Mr M says that he 
was reassured that the same thing would not happen again.
About a week later, Mr M tried to make another transfer. This was also blocked. Bank of 
Scotland said that this was not because of any security concerns but because there were 
insufficient funds in Mr Ms account. 
Mr M complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He did not believe however that Bank of Scotland had acted unfairly. The terms 
of Mr Ms account allowed the bank to block payments in order to carry out security checks, 
and that is what it had done. The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr M did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most banks have security systems in place to protect themselves and their customers from 
fraud and other security risks. In part, those systems are designed to identify transactions 
that might be fraudulent  for example, because they are unusual or high value. Bank of 
Scotland is no different. 
Of course, security systems wont always be able to identify transactions that are fraudulent, 
and sometimes they might identify as suspicious payments which are genuine. 
The terms of Mr Ms account provided for that possibility. They included:
5.4 When can we refuse to act on an instruction?
We can refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal if:
our internal security controls require you to produce additional identification or 
prevent us carrying out the transaction (for example, if it is for more than the 
maximum amount we set at any time);
the payment seems unusual compared with the way you normally use your account, 
in which case we may investigate further
The banks security systems here identified the payment of £16,000 as unusual, and I can 
understand why that was. The account terms, which formed the basis of the legal agreement 
between the bank and Mr M, allowed the bank to refuse to complete the payment and to 
investigate further. The bank investigated further by inviting Mr M to confirm the payment 
was genuine, which he did. 
In the circumstances, I cannot properly say that the bank acted unfairly. I acknowledge that 
Mr M was put to some inconvenience, and I note what he says about the difficulty he had in 
contacting the bank. The bank was however acting in line with the account terms, so that is 
not a reason to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
As far as the second attempted transfer is concerned, Mr Ms account statements show that 
there were insufficient funds in his account at the time. The bank was therefore under no 
obligation to complete the payment. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman