DRN-3566076
The complaint
Mr D and Mr S complain about failures by Bank of Scotland plc in managing their buy to let 
accounts and in particular how charges have been added to an account where an LPA 
receiver has been appointed.
What happened
Mr D and Mr S bought six buy to let properties in 2007/8. Five of these properties were 
mortgaged to BM and one to another lender. All the terms of the mortgages matured in 2018 
but the mortgage balances remain outstanding. At the beginning of 2020, Mr D and Mr S had 
a number of complaints about the administration of the mortgages by BM and in particular a 
complaint arising out of the appointment of a receiver to one of the properties which Ive 
dealt with in another decision 
In this complaint Ive dealt with the following points of complaint:
They werent informed of payment increases or term expiry and that the contractual 
monthly payments (CMPs) are incorrect.
They would like a statement of all the fees and charges added to the account.
They are concerned that charges are being added to the account and creating 
arrears.
They are concerned with postal delays and length of time its taking for information to 
get to them.
They are unhappy that BM wont extend the mortgage terms although they agreed 
that in the past
They are unhappy that the property taken into LPA receivership is being sold with 
vacant possession rather with the tenants in situ.
BM responded to these complaints on 6 October 2021and said that it sent letters to Mr D 
and Mr S advising them of the mortgage account status and changes to the account; it said 
that its policy as regards a sale was to obtain vacant possession and if Mr D and Mr S 
wanted to end the receivership there was a procedure to be followed including clearing the 
arrears and the receivers costs; BM said that it added charges and fees to the mortgage 
balance and not as arrears and that statements showing these would be sent to Mr D and Mr 
S ; BM said that it had extended the mortgage term after its expiry to allow them to review 
their finances and options but wasnt obliged to keep doing it and required the loan to be 
paid in accordance with the mortgage contract. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe that BM had done anything wrong. Mr D and 
Mr S disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Mr S say that they are having difficulties with getting information on their account 
from BM. Mr D and Mr S live abroad but Ive seen evidence that I would expect to  letters 
accounts etc that I would expect to see addressed to Mr D and Mr S. So, from BMs end they 
appear to be properly addressed and contain the information about balances, arrears and 
monthly payments and Ive no evidence that any fault lies with BM or that the monthly 
payments are incorrect. I appreciate their may be delays in the postal service with these 
documents getting to Mr D and Mr S, but thats not the fault of BM. Ive also seen that a 
substantial amount of information on their accounts has been sent by BM to Mr D and Mr S. 
But of course, BM should assist Mr D and Mr S with any further reasonable enquiries they 
may have about their accounts.
Ive seen no evidence of charges being added to the arrears but are added to the account as 
I would expect. As the receivers arent agents of BM, I cannot consider their fees in relation 
to a complaint against BM. Selling a house with vacant passion is a normal means of selling 
property. I cant fairly criticise BM if it adopts that method of sale. I appreciate that in the 
past, BM has shown forbearance by extending the term of these buy to let interest only 
mortgages. But under the terms of their contract with BM, these mortgages were to be 
repaid by 2018. BM appears to have acted fairly by granting extensions to allow some time 
for Mr D and Mr S to consider how best to repay them. But they have had that time and I 
cant fairly require BM to continue to grant extensions as BM under the mortgage contract 
are entitled to have the money required.
So, for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman