DRN-3764731
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him an Additions package bank 
account in September 2000. The account was later migrated to Barclays account with Tech 
Pack in January 2017 without his permission.
What happened
In September 2000 Mr S upgraded his account from a free account he had previously held to 
an Additions package bank account. Mr S has told us that he upgraded his account because 
he needed access to an overdraft facility and was advised by Barclays that he would be 
more likely accepted for the facility if he took the package bank account.
Mr S says he was told about the other benefits that came with the account but he either had 
no use for the benefits, or already had cover elsewhere. 
Mr S also tells us than when his account changed to a Barclays account with Tech Pack in 
2017 the change was made without his permission and the benefits were reduced. 
Mr S has never used any of the benefits that came with either of the accounts and therefore 
feels they were mis-sold to him.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr S disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
I will look at the sale of Mr Ss Additions account in 2000 and the migration from the 
Additions account to the Barclays account with Tech Pack in 2017 separately below.
Additions Account sale
In September 2000 Mr S was sold an Additions fee paid package bank account. Before this 
Mr S held a free bank account with Barclays. Mr S says he needed access to an overdraft 
facility and only took the account because he was told by Barclays that taking the package 
bank account would increase his chances of being approved for one. 
I have thought about what Mr S has told us and looked at the available evidence. I think its 
likely Mr S was sold the Additions account in branch as this was the only method of sale 
used by Barclays at the time for this type of account. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest a tailored recommendation was made by Barclays for Mr S to take the account. So, 
Barclays didnt have to make sure the account was right for Mr S, but it did have to give Mr S 
enough information so he could decide if it suited his circumstances.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time Mr S took his Additions 
account, but I think its likely the benefits of the account were discussed. And Mr S himself 
says he knew about the other benefits of the account. Mr S already had an overdraft facility 
on his fee free account so I think its unlikely Mr S would have been told it was more likely for 
him to be accepted for an overdraft with a package bank account, as he already had an 
overdraft in place. 
At the time the account was sold to Mr S he used his overdraft regularly and in the six 
months before taking the Additions account had paid fees for using it. So, I think the 
conversation he had with Barclays likely highlighted the benefits of the preferential overdraft 
rate that came with the account. Mr S also continued to use his overdraft facility for the 12 
months that followed him taking out the Additions account.
The Additions account cost £6 per month at the time Mr S took it out and came with an 
interest fee overdraft of up to £100. I think this would have been an attractive benefit to Mr S 
at the time.
In addition to the overdraft benefits the account came with purchase protection cover; 
cardholder protection; accidental death cover; extended warranty; legal advice  24-hour 
helpline; and a will writing service. Mr S says he didnt have a need for these benefits, but 
package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual which means customers cant pick 
and choose which benefits they want to include. Its often the case that customers are 
unable to use all the benefits that come with a package bank account. This does not mean 
the account was mis-sold. These additional benefits remained available for Mr S if he found 
a need for them.
In addition to the above Mr S says Barclays pressured him to take the account. But pressure 
is a subjective argument and what may be considered pressure to one person may not to 
another. Without stronger evidence that Mr S was pressured into taking the account I cant 
uphold his complaint for this reason.
Overall, I think its likely the benefits of the Additions account were discussed with Mr S 
when it was taken out and he chose to have it based on his circumstances.
Migration to Barclays account with Tech Pack
In January 2017 Mr Ss account was migrated from the Additions account to a Barclays 
account with Tech Pack. Barclays has explained it took the decision to no longer offer the 
Additions account following a review of the accounts it offered. At this time customers with 
Additions accounts were migrated to another package account that best matched the one 
they held previously.
This type of review is common in the banking industry and the decision to remove or amend 
accounts a bank offers is equally as common. This is a commercial decision taken by the 
bank and we consider this to be fair. Although we would expect Barclays to give Mr S notice 
of the change and tell him the options that are available to him.
To support Barclays having met its obligations to make Mr S aware of the change to his 
account it has sent us information available from the time.
On 29 September 2016 Barclays sent Mr S a letter explaining:Your Additions account will soon become a Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack
The letter stated that Mr Ss account was changing from 13 January 2017. It also explained 
the benefits that came with the account and the new lower monthly fee. The letter gave Mr S 
several options, one of these options was:
If you decide you don't want these changes, let us know before 12 January 2017 that you 
want to change your account to a Barclays Bank Account without Tech Pack. By not opting 
for Tech Pack, your account will still become a Barclays Bank Account  with no monthly 
account fee  but your insurance benefits will end. If you have an arranged overdraft, 
although your limit wont change, no part of your overdraft limit will be fee free.
On 20 January 2017 Barclays wrote to Mr S again. The letter confirmed his account had 
changed and the fee that would apply. The letter also explained:
Packs are optional, so you can remove Tech Pack or add other Packs at any time.
I think the letters above show Barclays made Mr S aware of the change to his account. I 
think the letters also gave Mr S time to think about whether he wanted to continue with the 
account or opt for a free account that was available to him. So, I think Barclays met its 
obligations to Mr S. 
The letters also show that Mr Ss overdraft facility would remain in place if he chose to 
downgrade his account to a free account, although he would lose the preferential rates.
Mr S says that due to medical conditions he did not open his post at times and questions 
whether Barclays sent the letters at all. But I havent seen anything to suggest Barclays 
didnt send the letters. I also havent seen that Mr S or anyone on his behalf informed 
Barclays he was unable to access the contents of his post at the time or asked for an 
alternative method of communication. So, I am unable to hold Barclays responsible for Mr S 
not receiving these letters.
Over the years Mr S held a package bank account with Barclays benefits were added and 
removed from the account. Mr S says he never used any of the additional benefits that came 
with the account and never registered for any of them either. Mr S says because of this 
Barclays should have realised the package account wasnt right for him and reviewed it.
I appreciate what Mr S has said but Barclays does not have an obligation to review Mr Ss 
account. It would be for Mr S to review his own account to decide if it still offered good value 
and decide whether to continue with it or not.
The FCA now requires banks to send its customers annual statements. Barclays has sent 
Mr S annual eligibility statements that explain the benefits that come with his account. As 
Ive explained above it would be for Mr S to review his account and decide if it continued to 
meet his needs. I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in not reviewing Mr Ss account.
In addition to saying he never used the benefits that came with his package bank account 
Mr S has also said he would never use the mobile phone / gadget insurance as repairs used 
non-genuine parts that could affect his warranty.
But as Ive said above package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual customer. It 
would be Mr Ss responsibility to review his account to decide if it was right for him. I cant 
see that Barclays has done anything wrong and I am not asking Barclays to do anything to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman