DRN-3864971
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has handled a 
claim for subsidence. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim for subsidence damage in 2019 when they noted damage to the 
rear of their home. Ageas declined the claim due to a defective design exclusion in the 
policy, saying the propertys foundations were too shallow.
In 2020, following site investigations, Ageas found that the cause of the movement was root 
induced clay shrinkage and, following further tests, Ageas said the foundation depth didnt 
meet NHBC guidelines  so there was a defect in the way the property had been built which 
meant there was an applicable exclusion in Mr and Mrs Ms policy.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service and although the investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint, she said Mr and Mrs M could provide new evidence if they were able 
to, and that Ageas would need to consider this.
Mr and Mrs M proceeded to appoint a surveyor to carry out further investigations into the 
depth of the foundations. They did this at their own expense. They believed the report 
showed rootlets at a depth greater than the foundation depth, indicating that the subsidence 
wouldve occurred even if the foundations had been the correct depth. Mr and Mrs M put 
their experts report to Ageas to consider, but it said this didnt make a difference to its 
decision to decline the claim, because the report didnt say whether the roots were active or 
whether the ground was desiccated at the greater depth.
Unhappy with Ageass response, Mr and Mrs M referred a second complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
commented that there wasnt enough information in the new report to suggest that the 
subsidence wouldve occurred even if the foundations were adequate.
Because Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has 
now come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the new evidence provided by Mr and Mrs M since their initial 
complaint was referred to this service. 
Ageass position was that mass concrete footings were 700mm below the ground rather than 
the 2000mm required under the NHBC guidelines for building near trees. 
Mr and Mrs Ms report identifies roots at a depth of 1.7m and 3m below ground, but it doesnt 
show that those roots wouldve caused the subsidence to occur even if the foundations were 
adequate. This is because some of the roots were desiccated  having had all the moisture 
removed. The report identifies some of the roots as Oak and the remainder were not 
identified, but it doesnt comment on whether the Oak roots were active or at what depth 
they were found. This doesnt persuade me that the subsidence wouldve occurred 
irrespective of the depth of the footings.
I know Mr and Mrs M will find this frustrating, particularly as they believe the first investigator 
who considered their complaint suggested that if they could prove roots existed deeper than 
the recommended foundation depth then the subsidence was inevitable and their complaint 
would be upheld. But Ive looked at the first case they brought to this service and I cant see 
that the original investigator gave any such assurances. She mentioned that they could get 
their own investigations carried out and that Ageas would need to consider any reports they 
provided. And its not enough to say that roots were found at a certain depth, if we dont 
have evidence to show the roots were active at that depth, and therefore wouldve caused 
the subsidence to occur even if the foundations were the right depth.
So I dont consider Ageas to have acted unreasonably in declining the claim, on the grounds 
that the defective design exclusion applied. 
However, Ageas didnt provide an adequate level of customer service when dealing with Mr 
and Mrs Ms claim. It caused a delay in initially considering their report, and didnt give Mr 
and Mrs M a response to the new evidence submitted, until this service became involved.
So I consider Ageas needs to compensate Mr and Mrs M for the poor service they received. 
And Im satisfied that £75 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances, bearing 
in mind the length and impact of the delays.
Putting things right
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs M £75 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman