DRN-3830520
The complaint
Mr M complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants the other driver held at fault and his excess refunded.
What happened
Mr Ms car was hit by another car whilst parked and unattended, but a witness provided 
details to Mr M. Mr M didnt want to make a claim on his policy until the other driver had 
admitted liability. esure said the matter was straightforward, so Mr M went ahead with 
repairs. But the other driver then denied liability. So the claim remains open, Mr M had to 
pay his £300 policy excess and his No Claims Discount (NCD) is reduced whilst the claim 
remains open. esure agreed that its service could have been better, and it paid Mr M £100 
compensation. But Mr M remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had told Mr M that he would need to have his car repaired so it could present its outlay to the 
other insurer. She thought it could have handled the claim better. But she thought it had 
reduced Mr Ms NCD and required him to pay his excess in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. And she thought it had fairly compensated Mr M for its service failings.
Mr M replied that he wasnt complaining about the fault on his record, but about the level of 
service provided by esure. He said it hadnt responded to his questions or provided updates. 
And he said esure had incorrectly said that delays in the claim were due to it not receiving 
the repairs receipt. He was unhappy that esure took 6 weeks to send the repairs receipt to 
the other insurer and that it took 16 weeks to refer the matter to its solicitors. He wants the 
claim closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that its now over a year since the incident and the claim still remains open as 
esure is yet to recover its outlay for repairing Mr Ms car. Mr M has had to pay his policy 
excess and his NCD has reduced from 20 years to 3 due to the open claim, affecting his 
premium. Im satisfied this is in keeping with his policys terms and conditions.
I can understand that this must be frustrating and stressful for Mr M. esure has a duty under 
the rules that govern it to deal with claims promptly. So Ive considered here how it managed 
Mr Ms claim and whether it caused any avoidable delays in progressing it. Ive also 
considered esures communication with Mr M. 
Mr M was unhappy that, eight months after the incident, the other driver denied liability and 
her insurer wanted then to inspect her car for consistency with the incident. He said the other 
driver had ignored the police and was being prosecuted for leaving the scene. He said he 
had provided witness details.
Looking at esures file, I can see that when the claim was reported, esure took action to 
recover any CCTV images, it collected a witness statement, and it instructed a repairer to 
contact Mr M. It sent its allegations to the other insurer, but there was no response after two 
months. esure told Mr M that it should have done more to progress the claim and respond to 
his concerns. It apologised and it paid him £50 compensation for this. Im satisfied that this 
was fair compensation for the impact of this lack of communication. 
I can then see that esure continued to pursue the other drivers insurer for an admission of 
liability, without success. Mr M was frustrated that esure didnt contact the other insurer more 
frequently. But I wouldnt expect it to do this. And I wouldnt expect esure to contact Mr M 
unless it had an update for him. esure also told Mr M that it would need to make an outlay in 
order to take legal action against the other driver. I can see that it took five months for Mr M 
to agree to have his car repaired. 
The repairs were made. But a month later esure said it was still waiting for the repairer to 
send its invoice so it could pursue the other insurer. It paid Mr M £50 compensation for this 
delay, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Mr M thought the invoice had been sent to esure after his repairs were completed. But I can 
see from its file that esure received the invoice a month after the repairs were done. It then 
paid this and pressed the other insurer. But it wouldnt accept liability as the other driver 
denied hitting Mr Ms car. 
Mr M said that he understood that the claim should have defaulted in his favour after three 
months of no response from the other insurer. But I dont think this is standard industry 
practice. And it would be for esure to take a decision on whether or not to do this. But, in that 
case, the claim would still be recorded as fault/outlay not recovered and Mr Ms NCD would 
still be affected. 
The claim can only be recorded as non-fault by esure after it has recovered its outlay from 
the other insurer. Its not unusual for insurers to take months to decide whether or not to 
accept liability. And I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for this delay as long as it has 
pressed for a response, which I can see that it has. And I can now see that esure has again 
asked for the other drivers name so that it can take court action to make a recovery. 
During this time, I can see that Mr M was frustrated by the lack of progress in the claim. But I 
think esure reasonably progressed the claim once it had received the garages invoice. And I 
can see that it has now instructed solicitors to take legal action to recover its losses. It took 
some time to do this, but I can see that it was pressing the other insurer for a response 
during this time. 
Mr M was also frustrated by esures call waiting times and its lack of updates. I can see that 
Mr M contacted esure for updates. And esure agreed that it should have been more 
proactive to progress the claim when it was first reported. But Im satisfied that its payment 
of £100 compensation in total is sufficient compensation for the impact this has had on Mr M 
as its in keeping with our published guidance. I dont require esure to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman