DRN-4146922
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about the price charged by Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds Bank) to renew their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S received a quote to renew their policy which they say was 92% higher than 
the previous year. Mr S called Lloyds Bank to query this and was informed they couldnt 
provide any reason for the increase as it was calculated by their system. Lloyds Bank did 
agree to reduce the premium  and Mr S and Mrs S agreed to take out the policy. Mr S and 
Mrs S complained as the price was still 64% higher than the previous year yet they didnt 
feel there was any greater risk this year when compared to the previous year. They also 
complained they were only given a discount after they called. Lloyds Bank responded and 
explained the price Mr S and Mrs S received in the recent renewal reflected changes theyd 
made following rules introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They explained 
this meant existing customers couldnt be charged more than new customers. They said they 
regularly update their view on the chance of properties flooding by using the latest available 
data. They explained one of the main reasons for the increase in Mr S and Mrs Ss policy 
was that theyd updated their view of the likelihood that Mr S and Mrs Ss property could 
suffer damage from flood. They said they now believe the property is more likely to suffer 
damage from flood in the future.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and Mrs S. He thought Lloyds Bank hadnt 
treated Mr S and Mrs S unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S and Mrs S will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr S and Mrs Ss premium for their 2021 renewal was £301.47 and then, following 
a discount, £494.64 the following year. So, I do understand why Mr S and Mrs S are 
concerned about a 64% increase in the premium. Lloyds Bank have provided me with 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr S and Mrs Ss premiums were 
calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with them because its commercially sensitive, but Ive 
checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premium theyve been charged has been 
calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Lloyds Bank customers in 
Mr S and Mrs Ss position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I acknowledge Mr S and Mrs S want a more detailed breakdown showing the reason for the 
increased premium. As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Lloyds Banks 
risk model, but I can see a significant factor relates to new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only 
and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The 
rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr S and Mrs S were offered their renewal 
by Lloyds Bank in 2022, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
I can see, when Mr S raised a query about the price, Lloyds Bank did apply a discount. A 
business shouldnt offer a price higher than the ENBP and Im satisfied Lloyds Bank havent 
done that here. I can see Mr S and Mrs S were also offered discounts in previous years 
following a call to Lloyds Bank. The renewal invite for 2022 asks Mr S and Mrs S to get in 
contact if they have concerns as Lloyds Bank might be able to offer a discount. So, Im 
satisfied the discount they applied here wasnt to correct a mistake theyd made with the 
original quote but was as a result of a discretionary discount. 
I acknowledge Mr S is concerned that Lloyds Bank attempted to charge 92% more than the 
previous year but then offered a discount following a short phone call. As mentioned above, 
the renewal invite does offer Mr S and Mrs S the option of contacting Lloyds Bank to discuss 
their needs so they can consider a range of options to keep them as customers  and this 
includes discounting the premium. The fact they then offered a discount, doesnt mean the 
initial price was incorrect. So, I think Lloyds Bank increased Mr S and Mrs Ss premium at 
renewal correctly in keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings and underwriting 
guidelines. And, in addition to this, I think they treated Mr S and Mrs S fairly and reasonably 
in applying a discretionary discount. 
Lloyds Bank have also told us that Mr S and Mrs S paid below their target price and theyve 
told us how their target pricing model applies to Mr S and Mrs Ss policy. The target pricing 
model demonstrates whether Lloyds Bank treated Mr S and Mrs S fairly. It allows us to see 
whether what they were charged was in line with how theyve said they treated all of their 
policyholders  regardless of whether they engaged with them. Im afraid I cant share the 
detail of their model with Mr S and Mrs S as its commercially sensitive to Lloyds Banks 
business. But I hope it reassures Mr S and Mrs S to know Ive checked Lloyds Banks target 
price and what they quoted in 2022. And Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank didnt charge Mr S 
and Mrs S more than their target price for 2022. 
In addition to this, Ive seen the renewal letter sent to Mr S and Mrs S in 2022 and I can see 
Lloyds Bank did remind Mr S and Mrs S that they could shop around to see if they could get 
a better price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording 
about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr S and Mrs S fairly, I think 
theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. I can see Lloyds Bank have explained another reason for the increase in premium was down 
to a change in their view on risk relating to flooding. Mr S and Mrs S may feel this is unfair, 
but Lloyds Bank, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and 
this will result in changes to the premium. They have explained this, together with the ENBP, 
was a change across all their policies, where the circumstances were similar, as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mr S and Mrs S havent been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to 
change their approach. 
I can see Mr S and Mrs S raise a complaint about the complaint handler not returning their 
calls. Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, 
and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be 
able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, 
then we can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer 
experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which Mr S and Mrs S raise about the 
complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I 
cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.      
I understand Mr S and Mrs S will be disappointed, and I fully understand why the 2022 
renewal price led them to complain. But I hope my reasoning provides them with 
reassurance that they havent been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the 
same circumstances. I wish to reassure Mr S and Mrs S Ive read and considered everything 
theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman