DRN-3165650
The complaint
Mr W complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo irresponsibly lent to him 
when he couldnt afford the loan
What happened
In June 2018, Mr W took out a loan with Everyday for £10,000 payable over 60 months with 
a monthly repayment of £339.50. Mr W said he struggled to make the repayments and had 
to take out further credit to make the repayments. Mr W said Everyday hadnt done enough 
to check whether he could afford the loan. He complained to them.
Everyday said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to determine Mr Ws 
financial position at the time of the loan. Mr W said the loan was for debt consolidation and 
on the evidence theyd seen the loan was affordable. Everyday calculated that at the end of 
each month Mr W would have over £100 in disposable income available to him. Mr W wasnt 
happy with Eveyrdays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Everyday had carried out proportionate and reasonable checks. 
And the amount they calculated for Mr Ws outgoings was reasonable. She said she hadnt 
seen anything to show the loan wasnt affordable or that Everyday had lent irresponsibly.
Mr W didnt agree, he said Everyday had used an inflated income in their calculations and 
his outgoings meant he didnt have enough funds to make his repayments. He said hed 
used the loan to consolidate his credit cards but had to use them again to maintain his 
outgoing commitments. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr W would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr W
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mr W required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr W. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr W himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr W had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
him.
Everyday said Mr Ws credit file didnt show he was having any difficulty in repaying
his existing financial commitments. It showed hed three credit cards and a mail order 
account. Everyday also saw Mr Ws last three months payslips, which they calculated hed 
an average monthly income of £1483. Mr W said hed one dependent and paid £230 per 
month in rent. Everyday calculated Mr Ws credit commitments each month to be £184.23, 
and for day to day living expenses they used a standard industry percentage calculation 
compared to Mr Ws income that allowed for monthly outgoings of £715. As Mr W had one 
dependent, they allowed a further £80 for this  but I dont see they included the benefit 
payment Mr W received as an income for his dependent. Everyday understood the loan was 
to be used for consolidation of borrowing, and that Mr Ws credit commitments would be 
cleared - £184.23. Taking all of this into account they said, clearing his credit commitments,  
would have left Mr W with a disposable income, after taking the new loan commitment of 
£339.50 into account, of £118.50. Based on their affordability assessment Everyday deemed 
the loan was affordable.
Ive looked at the information that Everyday would have seen. Mr Ws payslips include 
overtime and bonus payments. As the loan was over a period of 60 months, I  think it would 
be reasonably foreseeable  CONC 5.2a.15 (3) that Mr Ws regular income could be 
reduced. So, I dont think Everyday should have used the average they did as the payslips 
they saw I dont think were reflective of what Mr Ws income would have been over the 
course of the loan agreement. So, I think Everyday should have checked Mr Ws salary 
without the additional income. Mr W has shown us his January 2018 payslip which doesnt 
have any overtime or bonus payments, and his income was £1183.09. But I can also see 
that Mr W had £80 deducted regularly each month for a savings plan. So, I think a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ws income at the time of the loan would have been £1263.09.
Mr Ws credit cards had credit limits of £1,500, £1,800 and £3,500 and all three had 
balances close to their credit limit, £1,364, £1,705 and £2,722. He also had a mail order 
outstanding balance of £425. Taking an average repayment of 5%, I think Mr Ws credit 
commitments would have been around £311, more than the £184.23 used by Everyday. But 
Mr W had said he wanted the loan to consolidate his debt, and the loan was to be used to settle these balances. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Everyday to remove these 
from Mr Ws affordability assessment and Ive not included them in my assessment. 
Taking Everydays percentage calculation (35%) for Mr Ws living expenses, I think Everyday 
would have applied the minimum amount theyd use - £500, and Mr W said he paid £230 for 
rent. I calculate this would have left Mr W with £533.09 each month. And after taking the 
repayment for his new loan £339.50, this would have left Mr W £193.59 in disposable 
income. So, I think Everyday, if theyd done the additional check would have still lent to Mr 
W.
Mr W has provided us with his latest credit file and refers to a loan that hes repaying. But I 
dont think this information would have been seen by Everyday as it dates post June 2018 
when Mr W applied for the loan. Mr W has also referred to a payment plan and has provided 
bank statements that show an individual voluntary arrangement payment of £100 he was 
paying before he took out the loan with Everyday. But this isnt something Everyday would 
have seen as it wouldnt have shown on his credit file. And I cant hold Everyday responsible 
for something they havent seen or been told about.
As I outlined above, I need to determine whether Everyday carried out proportionate and 
reasonable checks before agreeing to the loan, and apart from Mr Ws salary I think the 
checks they did were proportionate and reasonable. And if theyd checked Mr Ws basic 
salary payslip I think they would have still lent to him as I think theyd have deemed the loan 
to be affordable. I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think 
Everyday acted irresponsibly in lending to him.
I understand that Mr W after settling his credit card balances has again taken on further 
credit commitments. So, while I appreciate that Mr W is now struggling to maintain payments
I dont think Everyday did anything wrong by approving the loan. And I wont
be asking them to do anything more. However, Id expect Everyday to deal with
Mr Ws situation positively and sensitively.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman