DRN-3965063
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement payment Nelson Insurance Company Limited (Nelson) 
offered him following the theft of his car, under his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs vehicle that he used as a taxi was stolen whilst he was dropping off passengers. 
Nelson accepted his claim and offered him a settlement payment for £14,000. Mr C says this 
wouldnt buy a like-for-like vehicle and disputed the valuation. Nelson reviewed its offer and 
increased this to £20,750. Mr C again disputed the valuation and provided advertisements of 
similar vehicles for sale. 
Nelson offered to increase its valuation a final time to £23,000 less the policy excess. Again, 
Mr C didnt agree. He provided advertisements showing vehicles for sale in excess of 
£30,000. He also says he lost some possessions that were in the vehicle when it was stolen. 
Because he thought his vehicle was worth far more than Nelson offered him, Mr C referred 
his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He obtained trade 
guide valuations to assess the value of Mr Cs car. Based on this information he thought 
Nelsons offer was reasonable. He says although Nelson hadnt responded to Mr Cs 
personal possession claim, it had advised that his policy was limited to £100 for this loss and 
was willing to discuss this with him.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome. He maintained that his vehicle was worth more than 
Nelson offered and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
The matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done do Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Let me explain. 
I understand Mr C wants the best offer he can get following the theft of his vehicle. He says 
he cant find a like-for-like replacement for Nelsons offer. But having read his policy terms it 
doesnt provide for a like-for-like replacement. It provides the market value in the case of a 
total loss. This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle as far as may be practical with one of the same make, 
model, year, type, mileage, and condition at the time of the loss or your estimated value last 
declared to us; whichever is the lower amount but not exceeding the purchase price paid by 
you.
Our investigator has explained our services approach to car valuations. We dont provide
valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the 
motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr C says he cant find similar cars advertised at the price Nelson offered him. Based on the 
advertisements he has provided he says a similar car is priced closer to £30,000. But we 
dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices.
Our investigator thought Nelsons settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how he arrived at this conclusion. I can see he looked at the valuation information Nelson 
provided. It used the correct make, model, age, and date of loss. Nelson used the vehicles 
mileage confirmed for the last two MOTs and calculated the average daily mileage Mr C 
covered. It added 86 days of this average mileage to the mileage shown on the last MOT 
and used this figure in its valuation. I think this approach was reasonable.  
Our investigator obtained valuations from two other trade guides, using the same information 
for Mr Cs car. These gave valuations of £14,056 and £17,424. Nelson offered Mr C £23,000 
for his vehicle, which is higher than the range of valuations our investigator obtained. 
I obtained one further trade guide valuation. Again, I used the same make, model, mileage, 
age, and date of loss. The valuation came to £13,850. Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an 
exact science so Id expect there to be a range of values where different trade guides are 
used. But based on the valuations Ive seen I cant reasonably conclude that the settlement 
payment offered by Nelson was unfair.  
Ive thought about Mr Cs claim for his lost possessions. The policy terms say:
We will pay up to a maximum of £100 in respect of any loss of or damage to personal 
belongings whilst in your vehicle.
Its fair that Nelson considers this aspect of Mr Cs claim. But the policy wording is clear that 
the cover provided is limited to £100. This is significantly less than the loss Mr C says he 
incurred. Nelson should ensure this loss is considered, but I dont think its unreasonable for 
it to rely on its policy terms in settling this claim.
Im sorry Mr Cs vehicle was stolen and that he isnt satisfied with the payment offered by 
Nelson. But based on the information Ive seen I dont think it treated him unfairly when 
relying on its policy terms and making the offer it did. Because of this I cant reasonably 
require it to increase its settlement offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman