DRN-3286015
Complaint
Miss I has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly provided her with 
unaffordable loans. 
Background
L2G provided initially provided Miss I with a loan of £250 in December 2019. This loan had 
an APR of 1,013.2% and a 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£1,028.52 was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £57.14. This loan was settled 
shortly after it was taken out. 
L2G then provided Miss I with a loan of £1,800.00 in September 2020. This loan had a more 
modest APR of 493.6% and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£7,113.60 was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £296.40.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G hadnt done anything 
wrong when providing loan 1 but that it unfairly provided loan 2 as proportionate checks 
would have shown it was unaffordable. Miss I didnt disagree with our adjudicator. But L2G 
did and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
As the parties appear to be in agreement with the findings our adjudicator reached on loan 1, 
this decision is only considering whether L2G acted fairly and reasonably when agreeing to 
provide loan 2 to Miss I.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Is complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Is complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss I 
would be able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss I wouldve been able to do     
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss I would be 
able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Is ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss I. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss I undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss I. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss I prior to 
providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Miss I declared that she was 
earning around £1,600.00 a month and had expenditure of £560.00 a month. L2G checks 
suggested her income was broadly correct but her expenditure was closer to £1,120.00 
based what it saw on her credit file. This left her with around £480 a month which was more 
than enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But the credit check it carried out showed Miss I 
had taken out a significant amount of short-term credit in the months leading up to this loan 
and shed also missed payments on some of her other accounts. Its also worth noting that 
this wasnt Miss I first loan with L2G either. 
All of this coupled with L2G not being confident in the income and expenditure information 
Miss I provided, such that it adjusted the figures and its adjustments not capturing all of Miss 
Is expenditure (for example, the payments attributed to Miss Is revolving credit 
commitments wont have been enough to see these balances repaid within a reasonable 
period of time) lead me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Miss Is actual 
monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Miss I with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Miss I would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Miss I would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Miss I could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Miss Is income 
was being used to meet commitments to existing short-term creditors. And her account was 
also overdrawn over her limit too. So I think that Miss I was always unlikely to be able to 
make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss I would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Miss I was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss I in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss I in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss I in some other way.
Did Miss I lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with loan 2?As Miss I is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what L2G did 
wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss I
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Is complaint for L2G to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss I made, to L2G and any debt purchaser, should be deducted from the 
new starting balance  the £1,800.00 originally lent. If Miss I has already repaid more 
than £1,800.00 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. And any 
overpayments should be refunded to Miss I;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss I to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Miss I a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account (should it buy it back from any third-party debt purchaser), and its 
the case that Miss I is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Is complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman