DRN-4426906
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a used car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality
What happened
In December 2022 Mrs G entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn for a used car. The car was around 10-years old and had a mileage of just over 
82,500. The car was supplied to her by a dealer and came with a three-month warranty.
Before Mrs G collected the car, she was informed by the dealer providing it that the power-
steering pump was defective. The dealer replaced this part and Mrs G collected the car in 
January 2023.
In February 2023 Mrs G experienced problems with the car over-heating and had to call out 
a roadside assistance company who advised there was an issue with the cylinder head. Mrs 
G contacted the dealer who took the car in and found that the head gasket had blown. It was 
arranged for repairs to be undertaken. The dealer informed Mrs G that the warranty wouldnt 
cover this repair work and requested she made a £200 contribution to the cost of the repairs 
which she did.
While the car had been taken in for repairs and because Mrs G was unhappy about the 
quality of the car, she raised a complaint with Moneybarn. 
In March 2023 the car was returned to Mrs G following the head gasket repairs but she says 
that the following day it overheated again, and a water pipe was found to be burst. She says 
this was later repaired by the dealer.
Moneybarn responded to Mrs Gs complaint in May 2023. It apologised for the length of time 
it had taken to reply but didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it considered the dealers 
offer of repair for the cars faults was fair and reasonable and asked that if Mrs G had paid a 
contribution to those costs that she should forward it the receipt. Moneybarn closed Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Mrs G says that in August 2023 the car developed further problems and is now off the road 
as it requires repairs that will cost around £2,500 to repair.
In September 2023 Mrs G complained to this service. She said the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and she wanted to reject it. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Gs complaint 
should be upheld. He said that it would be reasonable to expect a car of that age and 
mileage to have been subjected to significant wear and tear and that there would therefore 
be a risk of maintenance and repairs being required. Our investigator said it wasnt unusual 
for a head gasket to require replacing in a car of this age and use and he didnt think there 
was a fault when it had been supplied to Mrs G. He said the issue had arisen due to fair 
wear and tear. The car had been, our investigator thought, of satisfactory quality at the point 
Mrs G had acquired it.
Our investigator also said that he wasnt able to consider any faults the car had developed 
later in August as these hadnt been part of Mrs Gs complaint to Moneybarn in February 
2023. He also explained that while he accepted it had taken Moneybarn 11 weeks to provide 
Mrs G with a response, this wasnt within the remit of this service to consider as complaint 
handling was a service rather than a regulated activity.
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view. She said that due to the defective power-
steering pump the car had been of unsatisfactory quality at its point of sale. She also said 
that the head gasket issue had been present when she had acquired the car. Mrs G said the 
roadside assistance company mechanic had advised her that a temperature sensor had 
been replaced before shed acquired the car to mask the over-heating problem with the car.
Mrs G also said she wouldnt expect a head gasket to go after seven weeks of use and that 
she had been told the repairs that had been carried out had only masked the problem so the 
car would only last a while. Mrs G said the dealer hadnt satisfactorily repaired the vehicle as 
the car had broken down again shortly after the repairs to the head gasket. She said under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there was only one right of repair.
Mrs G said that due to the poor repairs carried out by the dealer the car was now practically 
a write-off due to the extensive repairs now required.
As the parties could not reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mrs G is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around ten years old and had a mileage of just over 82,500 so I think its 
reasonable to consider that significant wear and tear would have been suffered by some of 
its components and repair and maintenance issues would be expected to arise after a 
reasonable period of time. Unlike a new car it wouldnt be expected to be fault free.
Mrs G says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her because of 
the defect with its power-steering pump that had been reported by the dealer before she 
collected it. Ive seen this defect was accepted and repaired by the dealer at no cost to Mrs G and that the dealer had also asked Mrs G for her thoughts about the purchase 
before carrying out this repair. I think its fair to say that Mrs G accepted this repair and 
didnt seek to reject the car and end the agreement at that time. So, although there was a 
defect with the car (the power-steering) meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply this doesnt mean she can now reject it. That issue with the car was 
resolved and I havent seen any evidence the repair to the power-steering pump has 
failed.
Mrs G says she disagrees that the issue with the head gasket was due to wear and tear, 
and she would have expected the car to be more durable than it was. She has raised that 
the roadside assistance mechanic reported to her that the temperature sensor had been 
changed possibly as away of masking the over-heating problem with the car. But looking 
at the report from the AA there is no mention of the temperature sensor having been 
replaced nor have they provided any other evidence about this part having been repaired. 
I dont have any evidence in respect of this sensor.
Ive also seen that in October 2022 the car passed its MOT with no advisories and at the 
same mileage recorded when Mrs G acquired the vehicle.
So, I dont think I have enough evidence to reasonably say there was an ongoing fault 
with the car over-heating that the dealer was aware of and had taken steps to hide.
I appreciate that Mrs G had had the car in her possession for around six weeks when it 
developed the problems with the over-heating. I dont know how many miles she had 
travelled in it as the mileage recorded on the roadside assistance report is wrong being 
less than the mileage at the point of supply. Mrs G says she wouldnt expect this type of 
issue with this car but Im afraid I disagree. I think a reasonable person would expect 
issues with repair and maintenance to arise after a relatively short time of use due to the 
age and the use the car had already undergone. I dont think this type of fault is unusual in 
a car of that age and mileage and is more likely than not be due to ordinary wear and tear.
I think on the evidence that Ive seen that the fault with the head gasket occurred from Mrs 
Gs use and that it wasnt present when she acquired the car. In terms of the head gasket, 
I think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply to Mrs G.
Mrs G has raised that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the dealer has only one right 
to repair the car. But, as set out above, I dont think the repairs to the head gasket were 
carried out as a remedy for the car not being of satisfactory quality. These were repairs 
due to a reasonable level of wear and tear. This means that the issue with the water pump 
coming off the day after the car had been returned to Mrs G wouldnt mean she was now 
entitled to return the car because the repairs had failed. If there are issues as to the 
standard of the repairs carried out by the dealer then Mrs G will need to raise those with 
them. Moneybarn isnt responsible for repairs that were carried out due to wear and tear.
Ive seen Mrs G has raised further problems with the car and that she hasnt been able to 
use it since around August 2023. Mrs G says this was due to the standard of the repairs to 
the head gasket. But I cant look at the current state of the car because this hasnt been 
raised with Moneybarn. Under our services remit, I can only consider matters that have 
been raised with the business first and they have had an opportunity to investigate. So here, 
I can only look at those issues considered by Moneybarn in its final response letter dated 
May 2023. If Mrs G wishes other faults with the car to be considered, she will need to make 
a new complaint to Moneybarn and if she is unhappy at its response then she can make a 
new complaint to this service.
Im sorry my decision will disappoint Mrs G, but for the reasons set out Im not upholding her complaint. On the evidence provided Im satisfied that the fault with the head gasket wasnt 
present when the car was supplied to Mrs G and that in light of its age and mileage it was 
reasonably durable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman