DRN-3667008
The complaint
Ms C says Squareup Europe Ltd (Squareup), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim 
to a scam and that it should reimburse her.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Ms C fell victim to a scam and was tricked into making a payment to a 
scammer. Ms C made a £200 payment through Squareups financial platform Cash App to 
another Cash App user.
Ms C reported the matter to Squareup and considers it could have reversed the payment as 
it was still pending at the time she reported it. 
Ultimately, Squareup considered it wasnt responsible for the loss and it had followed Ms Cs 
instructions to make the payment and couldnt recall it. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. They didnt 
think Squareup ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in 
the circumstances. However they did consider Squareup could have done more to see if any 
of the funds could have been recovered once Ms C had notified it of the scam. Squareup 
looked at this aspect and advised that there was £20.65 remaining in the beneficiarys 
account at the time Ms C reported the matter. So it refunded this. Our Investigator thought 
that was fair and Squareup didnt need to do anything further. 
Ms C disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Squareup should have done more to prevent Ms Cs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Squareups actions, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint. 
Ms C was the victim of a scam and she has lost money, but in weighing everything up, I 
dont think I can fairly say Squareup should have prevented her loss or that it needs to 
reimburse her. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider  in this case, 
Squareup as an electronic money institute (EMI)  is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Here, while Ms C was tricked into making the payment, she did in fact make the payment 
herself  through her account with Squareup. And under the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), which are the relevant regulations in place here, the payments are 
considered as authorised by Ms C. And under the PSRs this means Ms C is responsible for 
the payment. That remains the case even though Ms C was the unfortunate victim of a 
scam.
Squareup is an EMI, so Ms Cs account with it isnt a bank account and isnt subject to the 
same expectations set out in guidance and regulation as a current account, or bank, would 
be when it comes to fraud prevention.
But that doesnt mean Squareup had no obligation to Ms C. Im satisfied that Squareup does 
have a duty of care to treat its customers fairly under PRIN 2.1 as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook. And, Im satisfied Squareup is required to be on the 
lookout for indications of financial crime - I can see that the terms and conditions available 
on its website reflect that it will take action if it suspects, amongst other financial crimes, 
fraudulent activity.
So Im satisfied Squareup ought reasonably to have some sort of systems in place to 
monitor the transactions on its accounts, but I also think any additional checks it carries out 
into suspicious transactions should be proportionate to its relationship with its customers.
Taking this into account I think Squareup might be negligent and liable for reasonably 
foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime 
by, or against its customer. 
So in this case, I need to decide whether Squareup acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms C when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than 
it did.
EMIs process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And an EMI has to 
strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up 
or delaying its customers requests. Ive thought about this carefully. Taking the above into consideration, when I look at the 
payment Ms C made  I cant fairly say that there was anything unusual or remarkable about 
the payment or the amount that reasonably ought to have alerted Squareup to the possibility 
Ms C was potentially at risk of financial harm. And I wouldnt expect Squareup to have 
concerns and step in and question Ms C further about the payment.
So, I think the fact that Squareup didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Once notified of the fraud, our Investigator thought Squareup could have done more in 
response and it could reasonably have sought to whether any funds remained in the 
beneficiary account that could be recovered. The Investigator made Squareup aware of this 
and it responded advising that had it acted, once notified of the fraud by Ms C, there was 
£20.65 that was remaining that it could have reasonably recovered but unfortunately the 
majority of the funds had already been moved on. I can see Squareup has since refunded 
this amount to Ms C. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
I understand that Ms C was unhappy with the customer service provided and the manner in 
which Squareup communicated with her through the Cash App. While I appreciate Ms C 
has been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Squareups decision not to refund her in 
this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed 
Ms Cs instructions to make the payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt 
have done this. I can see that it also advised her of this in its in-app message. So I dont 
make any further award here as I dont find Squareup acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Squareup Europe Ltd doesnt 
need to do anything further to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman