DRN-3083037
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Tees Valley Asset Management 
Limited (TVAM) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. Hes also unhappy that he was then advised to 
move the funds again to a new plan with a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In late 2015, Mr A contacted TVAM for advice on his pension. TVAM didnt have the 
necessary permissions to advise Mr A on DB pension transfers as this was a specialist area. 
So they referred him to another firm to provide this advice, Selectapension Bureau Services 
Ltd who were an appointed representative of CFP Management Limited. For the purpose of 
this decision Ill refer to Selectapension and CFP Management Limited as CFP.
Mr A was subsequently advised by CFP to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension 
with AXA. Very shortly after the transfer, TVAM advised him to switch his AXA plan to a 
pension with Nucleus and use a DFM.
Mr A complained both to TVAM and CFP in 2020 about the advice he received. He said both
firms are responsible for his DB transfer and any potential losses suffered. He said they both
encouraged him to transfer his BSPS pension. TVAM rejected his complaint and said they 
didnt provide Mr A with any advice about transferring his DB benefits.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his
complaint and upheld it in part. She didnt think TVAM were responsible for any losses Mr A
might have suffered by transferring his DB pension as CFP was responsible for this advice. 
However, she didnt think TVAMs advice to switch Mr As pension again from AXA to 
Nucleus was suitable. She asked TVAM to calculate what Mr As pension would be worth 
(using a benchmark) if he had not switched to Nucleus. Neither party agreed with the 
investigator. Mr A still thought TVAM was responsible for the BSPS transfer. TVAM also 
disagreed with the investigators findings. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BSPS transfer advice
Mr As representatives say TVAM and CFP should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say TVAM failed to act in Mr As best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
CFP is in liquidation, so I cant consider the complaint against them. I carefully considered
whether TVAM should be held responsible for Mr As DB transfer losses here in some form, 
however I dont think they should.
I appreciate that Mr A is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is CFP. They were the firm who had the relevant
permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. Its
worth remembering that Mr A could not have transferred his DB pension without CFPs
advice.
I understand Mr A says he never had any direct contact with CFP and all meetings he had 
were with TVAM. He says TVAM simply asked him to sign documents and not much was 
explained to him. He trusted TVAM to act in his best interest and he says he was 
encouraged to believe he would be better off transferring out of the BSPS.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between TVAM and Mr A. I havent seen written 
evidence that TVAM actually recommended Mr A to transfer. Ive seen an email and letter 
from CFP introducing themselves to Mr A and several of their letters including the suitability 
report were addressed to him directly. So on balance I think Mr A would have understood 
that CFP were advising him on the transfer.
TVAM became the ongoing advisers on Mr As new pension and were charging ongoing
advice fees. So they may have been hoping Mr A would transfer. Ive also considered the
possibility that TVAM inadvertently strayed into advice when discussing Mr As DB scheme 
with him, even though I havent seen any evidence to say that this is what happened. 
However, even if they did, in my view none of their interactions with Mr A and possible 
failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered.
TVAM did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr A not to transfer. I think there was nothing
generally wrong with referring Mr A on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB
pension.
Mr As representatives say TVAM referred a number of clients to CFP and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to CFP on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that CFP would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not. 
Ive seen CFPs introducer agreement and it says:
[CFP] will issue a letter of recommendation and report directly to the Client. If no transfer is 
recommended that is the end of the process, however if a transfer is recommended we will 
process and issue the policy documentation.Depending on the circumstances of the case, [CFP] will either recommend leaving the 
existing benefits where they are or [CFP] will recommend a transfer into a new policy []. 
[CFP will provide advice to the Client which is suitable to their circumstances.
So I dont think the recommendation to transfer was a foregone conclusion. I also dont think 
its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide DB pension 
transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have those 
permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on CFP, who were 
regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, 
to provide suitable advice. 
It was ultimately CFPs obligation to provide Mr A with independent and suitable advice and 
ensure he understood it. And if it wasnt suitable for Mr A to transfer CFP should, as the 
experts in this field, have clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, 
I dont think any discussions with TVAM would have likely made Mr A go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was CFPs positive recommendation that ultimately caused Mr A 
to transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer. I dont 
think Mr As potential losses here are caused by TVAMs actions and so I dont consider it 
fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Advice to switch from AXA to Nucleus
I agree with the investigator that the advice to switch pensions from AXA to Nucleus was 
unsuitable. The new plan was more unnecessarily expensive and Mr A incurred further 
advice fees. The AXA plan had a platform fee of 0.32% and his funds -if invested- would 
have attracted further charges of 0.15% (0.47% in total). The Nucleus portfolio cost 0.5% 
(including the DFM service) plus 0.33% in fund charges (0.83%). So even without taking into 
account ongoing adviser charges of 0.85% and the additional advice fees of £2,000, Mr A 
had to pay significantly higher ongoing charges.
I cant see any persuasive reasons why it was in Mr As interest to switch plans and incur 
these higher charges which would reduce his returns. The reasons for the recommendation 
were recorded as:
Mr A being able to access TVAMs preferred investment solution via a particular DFM
Enabling TVAM to ensure Mr A was invested appropriately to his attitude to risk
The portfolio would benefit from rebalancing and any required fund switches will 
happen automatically reducing the time and input required from Mr A.
Access to a wider range of funds as well as more options in retirement
However, Mr As attitude to risk was recorded as moderately cautious and he didnt have any 
investment experience, so I cant see why he needed a wider range of funds or a DFM.
TVAM says the recommended funds in the AXA plan were too high risk. However, the AXA 
plan or any other simpler arrangement would have offered investments in accordance with 
his attitude to risk and Mr A could have invested into tracker funds or managed portfolios 
which didnt need much input from him. He was already in a flexi-drawdown plan, so he 
could have taken his benefits flexibly by staying where he was.  Overall, I cant see that the 
additional charges he incurred by switching his plan were justified. His overall charges went 
from 0.47% to 1.68% (plus initial advice fees). 
TVAM says Mr A knew that he was moving his pension again and provided text messages 
between the adviser and Mr A as evidence. And based on the documents Ive seen I think 
this is correct. It also seems Mr A was told there would be higher charges. However, whether Mr A knew that his pension was being moved again or not or whether he was told about 
additional charges does not affect whether the advice was suitable.
Based on the evidence provided, Mr A did not have need for a such an expensive 
arrangement which would significantly impact on his investment returns and given his 
financial inexperience I think its more likely than not be was being guided by TVAM. I 
appreciate TVAM was a tied adviser and I understand they couldnt advise him on his AXA 
plan. However, this doesnt change the fact that the advice was not suitable and TVAM 
shouldnt have recommended him to switch pensions like they did. It simply wasnt in Mr As 
best interest.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must TVAM do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, TVAM must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
TVAM should add interest as set out below:
TVAM should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TVAM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr A £200 for distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TVAM deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. TVAM should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Nucleus Plan Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
transfer from 
AXA planDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, TVAM 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Nucleus Plan should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from 
that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, 
Ill accept if TVAM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
A would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr A could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Mr A should provide TVAM with a current Nucleus statement and full transactions history as 
soon as possible so that calculations can be carried out.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tees Valley Asset Management Limited to calculate 
and pay Mr A compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman