DRN-3761912
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Miss K took out in 2007 on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker who represented Sesame Limited. Miss K is unhappy with 
several aspects of the mortgage, but chiefly that Sesame recommended she take it on an 
interest-only basis when she could have afforded at least part capital repayment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Miss K took the mortgage in 2007; it was for £198,000 (plus fees), on interest-only, and 
repayable after 25 years. The mortgage repaid an existing interest-only mortgage, and 
raised additional funds for home improvements. The additional funds were retained initially 
and then released in later years by the lender. The complaint is that the interest-only 
mortgage was mis-sold. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss K 
has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
In this decision I have to look at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered generally whether Sesame did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken 
out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards as they are today, or to 
any hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all of this very carefully; its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and 
decide how much weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider 
individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion 
on the whole picture.
The essence of the complaint is that:
the mortgage was sold over the phone;
the mortgage should, at least in part, have been arranged on capital repayment; 
that Miss Ks income and employment situation werent accurately represented to the 
lender; and
Sesame didnt do enough to check and make sure Miss Ks strategy for repaying the 
interest-only mortgage at the end of the term was sufficient.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is usually the point-of-sale documentation from 
2007. The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect 
what was said and agreed at the relevant time. Unless theres a compelling reason to 
believe the information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it. Even if 
anomalies or mistakes are identified, that doesnt automatically mean a mis-sale has taken 
place. We still have to consider whether they might or might not have affected the suitability 
of the advice that was given. 
The information recorded on the fact-find shows that Miss K told Sesame she was employed 
(not self-employed as shes now saying was the case) as a financial adviser on a permanent 
basis, and that she intended retiring at age 60. It also records that Sesame didnt 
recommend an interest-only mortgage, but that Miss K insisted that was what she wanted. 
She intended repaying the debt by selling the mortgaged property, but she also said shed 
make lump sum reductions from bonuses when she could.
The information may have been gathered by phone, but Miss K signed the fact-find on 
31 August 2007. In doing so, she declared that information to be correct. If shes now saying 
that information was wrong, Miss K is effectively admitting to making a false declaration, 
which doesnt help her case that the mortgage was mis-sold. Something else that Miss K 
declared when she signed the fact-find, and which our investigator reproduced in her view of 
the case, was that she accepted that her decision to have an interest-only mortgage was 
against the recommendation of Sesames advisor. In that context, I cant fairly conclude that 
Sesame mis-sold the interest-only mortgage or that it is now responsible for Miss Ks current 
situation.
On the point about the repayment strategy, the intended strategy Miss K declared at that 
time had nothing to do with pension provisions, and when they might become available; so 
the question she has raised about the mortgage term being wrong is entirely moot. Miss K 
told Sesame she intended reducing her capital balance with lump sums from bonuses when 
she could, and repaying it altogether by selling the mortgaged property. 
Thats where the point I made about judging the cases against the standards that applied at 
the time becomes pertinent. When this mortgage was sold, the regulations didnt require 
mortgage advisors to check that applicants repayment strategies were sufficient for their 
intended purpose. They merely needed to alert applicants of the need to have a repayment 
strategy, and the fact-find shows that Sesame did that in Miss Ks case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman