DRN-4104589
The complaint
Mr M complains that he hasnt been provided with the service he should have been in regard 
to his account with Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank). 
What happened
Mr M has a savings account with Tesco Bank. He had previously requested this be closed 
but this was refused and his complaint, which was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, wasnt upheld. Following this Mr M says he hasnt been able to access his account 
and when he called Tesco Bank it didnt provide him with his account value. He said he 
could access his account before he made his previous complaint.
Tesco Bank issued a final response letter dated 11 October 2022. It noted that a final 
outcome had been provided by the Financial Ombudsman Service in regard to Mr Ms 
complaint about closing his account and stated this wouldnt be considered further. In regard 
to Mr Ms complaint about accessing his account it said that for security reasons it may from 
time to time need to send a One Time Access Code (OTAC) as part of its verification 
process. It said Mr M contacted it on 23 June 2022 and said he was unable to log onto 
online banking. He explained he had updated his mobile number and was using an overseas 
number. It said the agent offered to update Mr Ms mobile number but explained it may not 
be able to send messages to this number. It said its systems were designed to support UK 
based telephone numbers and it was unable to send codes to a non-UK number meaning Mr 
M would be unable to receive the OTAC to log into online banking or a verification code for 
online purchases. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator thought that Tesco Bank had acted unfairly by not offering alternative ways 
to receive the OTAC other than using a UK phone number. He considered the impact this 
had on Mr M and said that given Mr M had a savings account he was looking to close and 
was able to manage his account over the telephone he didnt require Tesco Bank to take any 
further action.  
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he hadnt changed his device in many 
years and so there was no need for a OTAC and noted that other financial organisations 
were able to send texts to international numbers. He said he had waited an excessive 
amount of time to get his account balance and said that while our investigator said there 
were things Tesco Bank could have done better, he had refused to take action against them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is in regard to Mr Ms complaint about problems accessing his account. 
While I appreciate that Mr M is frustrated by not being able to access his account online, I 
cannot say that Tesco Bank has done anything wrong by requiring a OTAC to be used in 
certain circumstances. I note Mr Ms comment about having the same device for a long time 
but as has been explained, the OTAC may be required on an existing device if a devices 
cache has been cleared or the device has been updated or the customer hasnt logged on 
for a while. So, while I note Mr Ms comment about him not being able to access his account 
online following his previous complaint, I have nothing to say the issues are linked.
In regard to the OTAC Tesco Bank has explained that its system only supports UK based 
telephone numbers. It has said that there are two options for sending the OTAC. The first is 
a text to a UK mobile number and the second an audio message to a UK landline. I 
appreciate that neither of these options may be suitable for Mr M, and I note that it would be 
helpful if there were further alternatives available. However, in this case noting the type of 
account Mr M has and that he is able to access his account information and manage it over 
the telephone I do not find the issue with receiving the OTAC has caused him any material 
disadvantage.
This is further supported having looked through Tesco Banks system notes. These say that 
Mr M called Tesco Bank on 23 June to check his loan balance. The notes record that on this 
call Mr M said that he couldnt get online as he needed to update his mobile number and the 
agent offered to do this. Mr M said it was an international number at which point he was told 
he may not receive texts. Mr M said he didnt need to do anything as his only other account 
was his savings account.  
Mr M raised a complaint on 19 September about not being able to access his account and a 
final response letter was issued on 11 October. This explained the issue about sending an 
OTAC to an international number and noted the previous call. I appreciate that Mr M doesnt 
think he has been provided with the service he should have been but in this case, I find that 
Tesco Bank has explained the situation regarding the use of UK numbers and explained that 
Mr M can access his account information through its Customer Care team. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M wants and I know my decision will be a 
disappointment. But in this case, I do not find that this situation has caused Mr M any 
material disadvantage and as Tesco Bank has explained what it can do to assist Mr M I do 
not require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman