DRN-3137963
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy about the way Easi-Drive Limited handled her claim after she was involved 
in a road traffic accident that she said wasnt her fault.
Mrs A has been represented by her husband, Mr A in this complaint. But for ease of reading 
Ive only referred to Mrs A in my decision.
What happened
In December 2018, Mrs A was involved in a road traffic accident. The police were called to 
the scene and Mrs A said the third-party driver was charged with reckless driving. It was a 
distressing time for Mrs A as her mother-in-law and son were in the car at the time.
Mrs A said her car had to be recovered from the scene, and her husband accompanied the 
recovery driver. She said the recovery agent couldnt return her husband to their home 
address and he was dropped off at a nearby railway station. He then had to get a taxi home 
at a cost of time and £19.80.
Mrs A said there was several days delay in Easi-Drive arranging for her car to be inspected, 
and Easi-drive didnt call her back to update her about what was happening. Mrs A said this  
added several days additional hire car charges to her claim.
Mrs A said, not only was her car damaged but she had incurred several uninsured losses. 
These included:
mobile phone screen damaged;
laptop screen cracked,
the cancellation of a Christmas trip;
car seat replacement;
transfer of car registration plate; and
a full tank of diesel.
She said she was given assurance by Easi-Drive that these costs would be recovered from 
the third-party insurer (TPI). But instead they later told her she needed to get in touch with 
the TPI herself.
After inspection Mrs A was told her car was deemed beyond economical repair, but she 
wasnt happy with the pre accident valuation (PAV) that the independent engineer gave for 
her car. Mrs A provided adverts that showed similar cars being sold at a higher value. She 
also wanted the side steps shed recently had replaced on her car returned to her. And said 
she didnt agree for the car to be disposed of until these were returned. But Easi-Drive sent 
her a cheque for the salvage of her car, and when she questioned this she said she was told 
her car had already been crushed. But later she found this wasnt the case as the DVLA told 
her it was being registered in someone elses name. Mrs A complained to Easi-Drive.
Easi-Drive accepted that their customer service had fallen short of their standards and for 
the trouble and upset caused offered Mrs A £150 in compensation.
Mrs A wasnt happy with Easi-Drives response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said she couldnt hold Easi-Drive responsible for elements of her complaint. 
But she agreed Easi-Drive could have handled the claim in a better way. She said that Easi-
Drives offer of £150 was fair and reasonable and she didnt ask them to do anything more.
Mrs A disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused to Mrs A. I appreciate its 
been a significant amount of time since the accident took place. And I can understand how
frustrating it must have felt when Mrs A hadnt been at fault for the accident.
Up until 31 March 2019, claims management companies (CMC) were regulated by the 
Claims Management Regulator. And complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal 
Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the 
events Mrs A is complaining about took place before this change in regulation, my decision 
must be based on the approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman 
would have taken.
Having done so, Ive decided Easi-Drives offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand 
Mrs A will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I think its important for me to firstly explain Easi-Drives role in this matter. Theyre a CMC
who have been instructed on the basis this is a non-fault claim. Theyve been instructed to
deal with issues arising out of the accident which include repairs to the car, determining a 
PAV if the car is beyond repair, arranging a hire car and liaising with the TPI to settle the 
claim made by Mrs A. 
Under the rules set by the Claims Management Regulator, and the approach taken by the
Legal Ombudsman, CMCs such as Easi-Drive arent deemed to be responsible for the
actions taken by third parties, for example the independent engineers assessment of the 
PAV or the actions of the recovery agent for Mrs As car. My decision is only able to focus on 
the actions Easi-Drive took and the service they provided to Mrs A directly. But while I cant 
say Easi-Drive are responsible for the actions of any third party, I can consider whether Easi-
Drive considered Mrs As concerns about it. 
Recovery
I know Mrs A wasnt happy that her husband was left to find his way home after the accident. 
But as I outlined above, I cant look at what the recovery agents did. So, I wont comment 
further on this part of her complaint. Delays in inspecting the car 
In considering delays I need to be sure that the delay was within the CMCs control and that 
if theyd done something differently, the delay would have been avoided. This would mean 
that they didnt manage the claim as well as they could have done, and this has impacted on 
Mrs As experience. Ive looked at Easi-Drives notes and the timeline of events that 
happened after the accident. And while I can see that Easi-Drive was trying to arrange for an 
inspection of Mrs As car, it took longer than it should have. And I can see Mrs A had to call 
Easi-Drive on a number of occasions and didnt get the customer service she expected.
Uninured losses
As outlined above, Easi-Drive as a CMC provide accident management services, they would 
arrange repairs, or settlement of the cars value and provide a hire car. In administering the 
claim they would liaise with the TPI and look to mitigate any costs for these. It isnt for the 
CMC to look to recover any uninsured losses such as those incurred by Mrs A. Usually the 
CMC would direct any such loss to legal advice or a claim under any legal expenses policy 
the consumer may have. But some CMCs will offer to help even though there is no 
requirement for them to do so.  
Easi-Drives notes show that they did let the TPI know of the uninsured losses that had been 
incurred. But the TPI didnt engage with them. While I think Easi-Drive was trying to help Mrs 
A, the process became frustrating for her as Easi-drive didnt fully explain their 
responsibilities to her. This meant Mrs A thought her losses were being considered as part of 
her overall settlement. And I can understand her frustration when she was later directed to 
act herself. I cant hold Easi-Drive responsible for the uninsured losses, and I can see theyd 
passed on Mrs As uninsured losses to the TPI for them to consider, but I think again their 
customer service could have been better.
Pre Accident Valuation
I can understand Mrs As frustration as she didnt agree with the valuation that was made. 
And she sent adverts to Easi-Drive to challenge this valuation as she saw that similar cars 
were being advertised at a higher selling price than the valuation she was being offered. I 
can see that Mrs A also questioned whether the new side steps had been included in the 
valuation assessment. Mrs A had replaced the previous side steps as theyd suffered from 
decolouration and rust. While I cant look at the actions of the independent assessor, I would 
expect Easi-drive in administering the claim and knowing Mrs A was still unhappy about the 
valuation, to have asked the independent engineer to consider the valuation that had been 
given considering Mrs As comments. And this they did.
I agree with our investigators view in that the side steps are an integral part of the car. And 
that they would have been included in the valuation and not seen as an enhancement to the 
car. So, Im satisfied Easi-drive acted as Id have expected them to do, as they asked the 
independent engineer to re- consider the PAV. I can see they sent the adverts Mrs A had 
given to them. And Ive seen that the independent engineer considered these along with 
similar adverts based on industry guidelines, looking across the price guides to reach what in 
their view was the correct valuation.
I can also see that Easi-Drive said that the side steps could be removed by Mrs A. But as an 
integral part of the car I would have expected this to affect the salvage payment for the car. 
Mrs A wasnt able to remove the side steps when she visited the car. But I think its clear 
additional damage was being caused to the car as it was being stored outside. And as the 
independent assessor had already confirmed the PAV after considering Mrs As comments, I dont think Easi-Drive acted unreasonably in taking the action they did in sending Mrs A her 
payment, including salvage in settlement of her claim.
Hire car
CMCs follow guidelines set by the Association of British Insurers General Terms of 
Agreement (The GTA). Section 4 is clear that a hire vehicle should be returned within 24 
hours of repairs being completed, or seven days of the PAV payment being received  any 
hire charges incurred after this date are the consumers responsibility. I can see that Easi-
Drive sent the settlement payment on 18 January 2019, and Mrs A confirmed its receipt by 
21 January 2019. So, Easi-Drive acted in line with the guidance and looked to collect the 
hire car no later than 28 January 2019. While I can see Mrs A was still disputing the PAV 
and the issue about the side steps, I cant hold Easi-Drive accountable for arranging the 
return of the hire car as any further costs could have fallen to Mrs A to repay. And I can see 
Easi-Drive took action to allow for the continued use of the hire car until its collection 30 
January 2019.
Easi-Drive have admitted they got things wrong with the customer service theyve given Mrs 
A. I think its right that Easi-Drive should compensate Mrs A for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service throughout their handling of the claim. The only 
issue I have to decide for this part of the complaint is whether the amount of compensation 
theyve offered is fair and reasonable. Its not our role to punish a business and I think Easi-
Drives offer of £150 in compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs A was hoping for. But as Ive explained, I can only 
consider the way Easi-Drive handled her claim under the approach set out by the regulator 
at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman