DRN-3748479
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct lost documents he sent to 
update his name. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr M sent HSBC a Change of Title Form, a Deed Poll and identification 
documents in order to change his name on its systems. But Mr M says that despite sending 
them twice, first direct failed to update his name. 
Mr M complained to first direct but it said there was no record of receiving his requests. And 
first direct said it couldnt change Mr Ms details without first receiving the required 
information. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint but said there was nothing to show 
first direct had received his documents. The investigator thought first direct had dealt with 
Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
first direct has explained that it processes name changes following receipt of a completed 
Change of Title Form, certified identification and a Deed Poll document. Theres no option to 
submit the documents or form online. I understand that means Mr Ms had to send his 
documents to first direct but we cant tell it what process to follow. 
I dont doubt that Mr M has sent his Change of Title form and documents to first direct. But 
first directs sent us its systems notes and theres no reference to receiving the documents 
Mr M sent. Mr Ms suggested his documents were lost by first direct, but they were posted so 
its also possible they were lost in transit. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent seen 
anything that suggests first direct received or lost his documents. 
first directs confirmed it cant change Mr Ms name without receiving the documents 
required. Again, Im sorry as I can understand how frustrating the process must feel for 
Mr M. But I cant tell first direct to amend Mr Ms details without first receiving the 
documentation required. 
As Im satisfied first direct dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman