DRN-4173007
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited after 
making a claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
British Gas accepts that its engineer was late for an appointment with Ms G. The 
engineer was due to attend between 10am and 2pm. The engineers visit notes say 
he arrived around 3.15pm but could not gain access to the property. Ms G received a 
text message to say the engineer would be late, but she says he didnt arrive at all, 
and that she waited in all day. 
I have no way of establishing whether or not the engineer did arrive at 3.15pm. I 
understand Ms G had called British Gas shortly after this time, and that British Gas 
wasnt aware the engineer had already visited. Though British Gas says it works a 
live booking system which is unlikely to have been updated by that time, which does 
not seem unreasonable (if the visit did take place). 
In any event, its apparent that Ms G was caused inconvenience by the missed 
appointment. British Gas also incorrectly closed Ms Gs complaint before it had been 
resolved. 
British Gas has apologised to Ms G for the above, and has paid her £55 
compensation. Im satisfied that was reasonable in the circumstances, and this level 
of compensation adequately reflects the inconvenience Ms G was caused by the 
matter.
Ms G wants British Gas to carry out further investigations to try and establish exactly 
what happened that day. I dont think this is necessary, even if further information 
were available (though it seems it is not).
Ms G has commented on a British Gas staff members job title, but this Service 
cannot tell a business what job titles to use for its staff. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied that British Gas 
Insurance Limited has already paid reasonable compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman