DRN-4118605
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he received from Mercer Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes. He believes the advice was 
unsuitable. He also thinks compensation Mercer previously paid, as part of the industry wide 
Pension Review, was calculated incorrectly and it was inadequate.
What happened
Mr H held pension benefits in a DB scheme from a period of previous employment. This 
included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). In 1990, after receiving advice from 
Mercer, Mr H transferred these benefits to a section 32 buy-out pension policy with a 
provider that Ill refer to as Firm S. The section 32 policy was invested by Firm S in a with-
profits fund.
In 1993, Mercer provided Mr H with separate advice in relation to another occupational 
pension scheme. It advised him to transfer benefits into another personal pension, separate 
to the section 32 policy, with Firm S. 
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an industry-
wide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 
1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns about 
the possible widespread mis-selling of personal pension plans between these dates. Where 
mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that firms had 
to use to determine if any redress was due.
Mr Hs pensions were both included in the pension review and, as a result, he was offered 
compensation by Mercer. It determined that his section 32 policy and his personal pension 
had values that were less than the benefits of his former DB schemes. It said the section 32 
policy had a shortfall equal to 3.53% of the pension value at the date of its calculation. And 
the personal pension had a shortfall of 95.47% of its value. So, Mercer said it would make 
good the shortfall by paying a single premium contribution to each of Mr Hs pension plans, 
equivalent to that shortfall.
Mr H signed confirmations that he agreed to the offers in full and final settlement of all claims 
against Mercer in respect of the transfers. Ive seen confirmation that a payment of 
£1,391.12 was made to the section 32 policy. And a payment of £15,037.28 was made to the 
personal pension.
Mr H complained to Mercer in 2021 about the advice hed received to transfer his pension 
benefits. He said hed come to draw his pension benefits and found those available were 
significantly different to what the DB schemes wouldve provided, so he felt hed been given 
unsuitable advice. He also raised that the previous redress payments were insufficient.
Mercer did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it had previously investigated the advice 
under the Pension Review and provided redress, in line with the requirements set by the 
regulator at the time. And Mr H had accepted these payments in full and final settlement of 
all claims arising from the advice. So, Mercer said it would not revisit the matter. It also noted 
that, in any event, Mr Hs complaint about the advice he received may also have been made 
too late according to the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. He said that he felt the redress payment in 
respect of the section 32 policy had been calculated based on an incorrect policy value. This 
was because it took into account a final bonus, which at the time Firm S said was significant, 
but which wasnt guaranteed and had now decreased to a nominal amount. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She was satisfied that the complaint had 
been made in time for us to consider. She believed it was reasonable Mr H wouldve thought 
any issues with his pensions were resolved by the redress provided as part of the Pension 
Review. And it wasnt until he came to draw his pension, he mayve thought otherwise. But 
our Investigator didnt think Mercer needed to take any further action, as it had already 
carried out a redress calculation under the Pension Review. She didnt think it had acted 
incorrectly by using the valuation, including the final bonus in respect of the section 32 
policy, provided by Firm S when calculating compensation. And while, with hindsight, some 
of the assumptions used in the calculations at the time hadnt come to fruition, the review 
was intended as a one-off exercise. And as Mercer had made payments in respect of the 
transfer advice in line with that review, which had been accepted by Mr H, she didnt think it 
was fair to require Mercer to review matters again.
Mr H disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a result, 
it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercer provided no further comments or objections to the Investigators opinion that the 
complaint was one that we could consider. So, I assume from that it accepts what the 
Investigator said. For the avoidance of doubt though, Ive considered this again.
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operate are set out by the FCA. 
These are known as the DISP rules. These rules set out the limits to what our service can 
and cant consider. One of the things these rules cover is whether the complaint has been 
brought in time for us to consider. And DISP 2.8.2(R) explains that we cant consider a 
complaint that has been brought more than six years after the event complained about or, if 
later, three years from the point the person bringing the complaint knew or ought to have 
known they had reason to complain. That is unless the business complained about consents 
to us looking into the matter or the delay in referring the complaint was due to exceptional 
circumstances.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is the advice he received in the early 1990s from Mercer. His 
complaint wasnt raised until 2021  clearly more than six years after the events took place.
So, Ive thought about when Mr H became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, that he had cause for complaint, and whether this gives him more time under the 
three-year rule.
Mercer paid Mr H redress as part of the Pension Review in 2001. The offer letters explained 
that these payments were made to make right the shortfalls that existed in the pensions 
Mr H had transferred his benefits to. So, I think its reasonable that Mr H wouldve believed 
at that point that the issues with his pension were resolved. Mercer has said that Mr H received yearly statements, summarising his pension. And these 
included projections of the benefits that the pensions might provide at retirement. So, Mr H 
shouldve realised sooner, that he had further cause to complain about the advice hed 
received. But the statements that Ive seen are clear that these potential benefit figures are 
illustrations, were only examples and werent guaranteed. There was also no further 
comparison drawn to the benefits the DB scheme was likely to provide for Mr H to consider 
(although I wouldnt have expected that information to be included). But given how the 
illustrations were explained and that Mr H understood from the pension review that the 
shortfall had been rectified, I dont think these statements are enough to say, in his specific 
circumstances, that Mr H ought to have known he had cause to complain about the advice 
he received on receipt of them.
Mr H has said he didnt realise there was a problem until he reached retirement and 
attempted to draw benefits from the pension. Which was less than three years before the 
complaint was made. I think this explanation is reasonable. And I dont think he had cause to 
complain sooner than that. So, I agree with the Investigator that the complaint has been 
made in time, for the same reasons she explained.
But, while I can tell that Mr H feels very strongly about this matter, having considered things I 
dont think Mercer needs to take any further action.
Mr Hs complaint is that the advice he received from Mercer, including about what type of 
pension was recommended to him, was unsuitable. Mercer being the party that 
recommended he transfer and sold the new pension policies to him. The Pension Review 
was created to look at potential mis-selling, so Mr Hs complaint is what the Pension Review 
was designed for. And the intention was that the Pension Review would compensate Mr H 
for the losses he would later experience when he came to retire. 
Mr H has said that hasnt happened, and now he has come to retire, the pension benefits he 
is entitled to under his two personal pensions are not equivalent to those the DB scheme 
wouldve provided. So, he still feels he was given unsuitable advice. But under the terms of 
the Pensions Review, businesses were only required to conduct the review once. And the 
regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and 
would put things right at the time. So, once a business carried out a pension review on a 
policy, they werent required to review it again.
Mr H has said that the redress he received was not sufficient and that Mercer used an 
incorrect value for his section 32 policy as it included a final bonus which was not 
guaranteed, and which Mr H believes was quoted incorrectly by Firm S.
The methodology businesses used to carry out redress calculations was set out by, and 
under scrutiny and review by, the regulator at the time. And the regulator provided 
assumptions for businesses to use when carrying out the loss calculations. These 
assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like future investment 
returns. 
Unfortunately, some of the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent, in 
hindsight, turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and 
annuity rates have fallen. But Mercer was required to carry out the pension review using the 
standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the 
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the 
future loss. 
As part of the calculations, Mercer needed to obtain or estimate a current value of the 
pension it was assessing, so that could be compared, after factoring in the assumptions set by the regulator, with the value of the DB scheme benefits that had been foregone. Mercer 
asked Firm S for this and used the information provided in good faith. 
The valuation given to Mr Hs section 32 with-profits pension did include a final bonus figure, 
which wasnt guaranteed. And a final bonus, if one is paid, is dependent on how well a fund 
does over the whole time it is invested. And here the pension wouldve remained invested for 
a significant period of time after the redress was paid. And, since the calculation, the final 
bonus figure for Mr Hs policy has fallen  at least partly because of market conditions not 
matching the assumptions at the time. But I dont think Mercer has acted incorrectly by 
including the final bonus in the valuation it used as it formed part of the policy value at the 
time. And Firm S has confirmed again that the figure was correct when requested. I know 
Mr H doesnt agree this was correct and has made a complaint to Firm S about this, which 
we are considering separately. But looking at what Mercer has done, I dont think it was 
wrong to use the valuation of the policy provided. And having been provided a copy of the 
calculations it carried out at the time; these dont appear to have been done incorrectly. 
And again, the Pension Review was intended to draw a line under matters and bring finality 
for both parties involved. It wasnt intended to be revisited in hindsight, in the event the 
reasonable assumptions at the time later proved inaccurate.
When accepting the offers Mercer made in respect of each of his pension policies, Mr H also 
signed to confirm he did so in full and final settlement of all claims of any nature 
whatsoever in respect of the relevant transfer advice or in connection with membership of 
the occupational pension schemes the transfer related to.
I am sorry to hear that Mr H is worse off even after the redress he was paid. But, taking 
everything into account, as the advice he received from Mercer in respect of both policies it 
sold in the early 1990s was reviewed as it was required to be by the regulators at the time, I 
cant fairly ask Mercer to consider this again.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman