DRN-4154343
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the sale of his travel insurance policy by Chubb European Group SE. 
What happened
Mr Y took out an annual travel insurance policy. He purchased the policy online and no 
advice was provided to him.  
Mr Y made a trip for business purposes and had to make a claim on his policy for a delayed 
flight and damage to his phone whilst travelling. But Chubb declined the claim because they 
said the trip wasnt covered because Mr Y hadnt purchased the extension for business 
travel. 
Mr Y said that the sales process for the policy didnt make it clear he needed an extension of 
cover to include business trips.  He said the explanation of cover related only to business 
equipment and money, which didnt apply to his circumstances, so he didnt think it was 
relevant.  He felt it was unreasonable for Chubb to assume that all business travel involves 
work related equipment. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think Chubb had acted unfairly 
when the policy was sold because she was satisfied the information, theyd provided at the 
point of sale was sufficient in highlighting the key limitations of the policy. 
Mr Y disagreed. In summary he said: 
He had made a claim for delayed flight and personal effects  not for anything under 
the business extension cover
The business extension cover is an optional additional benefit that gave extra 
coverage beyond the basic policy. But he should still be able to enjoy the benefit of 
the basis cover, even without having the business extension 
So it has now been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that those selling insurance on a non-advised 
basis are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the policy theyre selling.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ys trip was for business purposes. But I must decide if Chubb 
provided enough information to allow him to make an informed choice about whether the 
insurance was right for him. I would expect them to do this by drawing his attention to any 
key or unusual features of the policy. In practice this will usually mean highlighting the 
significant exclusions and other restrictions on cover.
Chubb has provided evidence of their sales process. Ive carefully considered the whole 
sales process and all the information provided to Mr Y when he purchased the policy. 
Mr Y has argued the information around the business trip cover during his application was 
misleading. Ive given this careful consideration and I appreciate Mr Ys argument that the 
question asked about business cover during the application only referred to business 
equipment and money. But overall, Im still persuaded Chubb did enough to make Mr Y 
aware that any business travel wouldnt be covered unless he purchased the extension. 
I say that because the sales process provided a list of optional cover extensions and 
Business Travel is defined as if you are going on a business trip / taking business 
equipment or samples on your trip. I think this is clear that the extension is required for 
going on a business trip or if you are travelling with business equipment. 
Ive also taken into account the documentation Mr Y was provided with. Before the sale 
completed, he was told to read the policy document and Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) to see details of all the benefits and exclusions of his policy. 
Mr Ys IPID sets out a summary of the cover provided and the key exclusions. Under the 
section entitled what is not insured? it provides a list of events that wont be insured under 
the policy - number two on the list says there is no cover for claims arising from business 
travel, unless its been added as option cover. So I think Chubb did enough to bring this 
limitation of the business cover to his attention. And they provided him with direct links to this 
document during the application - so he had straightforward access to all the important 
information he needed in relation to the policy. 
The policy terms and conditions also say that for all claims about something that happened 
during a business trip, you need the business travel extension to be covered.  Under 
Important Notes there is a section entitled Journeys not covered where it sets out that 
journeys for business purposes arent covered, unless you have purchased the optional 
business travel extension under this policy. And under the General Exclusions section it also 
states business travel is excluded, unless the business travel extension is on your policy 
schedule.  As such, Im satisfied the policy document Mr Y had access to also adequately 
set out this limitation to the policy.  
Taking everything into account, despite the question on business trip cover only referring to 
equipment and money, Im persuaded Chubb still provided enough information in both the 
IPID and policy document to bring the full limitation of cover for business trips to Mr Ys 
attention during the sale. 
As such Im satisfied Mr Y had the information he needed to make an informed decision on 
whether the policy was right for his business trip, before taking it out.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman