DRN-3188729
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi 
Personal Finance (Mitsubishi) has dealt with a claim she made under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
In April 2014, Mrs S entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier. The system cost £8,611.00 which she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement 
from Hitachi that was repayable over ten years. She paid off the loan early, in January 2018.
Mrs S, represented by a claims management company (the CMC), wrote to Mitsubishi in 
July 2020 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for 
consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor (Mitsubishi) is jointly and 
severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier  subject to certain considerations being met. 
Mrs Ss claim explained that she was told the feed-in tariff payments would cover the cost of 
the loan agreement. The CMC later said she expected the system to pay for itself within 6 
years. 
Mitsubishi said Mrs S had made the claim too late, since she had not contacted Mitsubishi 
within six years of the sale. 
Unhappy with Mitsubishis response, the CMC raised a complaint and referred the matter to 
this Service to look into. One of our investigators reviewed things but concluded that 
Mitsubishi had not acted unfairly by rejecting Mrs Ss s.75 claim. 
In summary, our investigator said that Mrs Ss claim against the supplier of the system was 
made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980, although Mitsubishi had 
caused some confusion by commenting on the merits of the claim at the same time as 
saying the claim was made too late. 
Mitsubishi acknowledged this and said it would pay Mrs S £300 as a gesture of goodwill. Our 
investigator thought this was reasonable. 
Since Mrs S remained unhappy, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Mitsubishi has treated Mrs S fairly in its response 
to her s.75 claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my 
decision, including the law, relevant rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of 
Mrs Ss complaint. In this decision Ill refer to those that I consider to be most central to my 
conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mrs Ss complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Mitsubishi, and it 
can be held responsible for a purchase Mrs S made using a point-of-sale loan. Im satisfied 
in this instance that theres an appropriate relationship between the parties for Mitsubishi to 
consider a s.75 claim. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So, Mitsubishi must have treated Mrs S fairly when it declined her s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Mitsubishi gave for declining Mrs Ss claim was that it was made outside of the 
relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mrs Ss rights to claim against Mitsubishi under s.75 are 
on the same basis of those she could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law  which 
includes breaches of contract. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mrs S says the benefits of the solar panel and heating system were the 
inducement that made her make the purchase. But her s.75 claim is that those benefits were 
misrepresented and so she entered a contract which wasnt the value for money she 
expected. Mrs S says were it not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then 
she wouldnt have entered the contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Mrs Ss financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay £8,611.00 for the solar panel 
system in April 2014, and she started to make payment of those sums. Mrs S raised her claim with Mitsubishi in July 2020 which is more than six years from when 
the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. 
Breach of contract 
s.5 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on simple contract shall not be brought 
after the expiration of six years from the date which that cause of action accrued. 
A breach of contract occurs when one of the parties to that contract doesnt perform the 
obligations set out in the contract. So, Mrs S would have six years to raise a claim from 
when a loss occurred as a result of the breach of contract. 
While Mrs S has mentioned breach of contract in her claim, the points she has made about 
what the supplier did wrong describe misrepresentations, not a breach of contract. So, I 
dont think this s.5 is relevant to my decision in this case.  
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mrs Ss claim against Mitsubishi is under 
s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Mitsubishi step into the shoes 
of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mrs Ss claim as Ive already explained she raised her 
complaint with Mitsubishi over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Mrs S knew, or ought to 
have known, that she had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. 
I think Mrs S ought to have known something was wrong at most around one year after 
installation of the system. This is because she was given an estimate of the annual benefit 
the system would provide. After one year she wouldve been able to compare the actual 
benefits with the estimate to see if the system was delivered the estimated benefit. As such 
this part of the Limitation Act would not extend the time she had to make a claim beyond the 
original six years. 
So, I consider it reasonable for Mitsubishi to have concluded the claim was made out of time, 
and that Mrs S did know, or ought to have known she had a claim for misrepresentation by around July 2015  as she wouldve had access to feed-in tariff statements and electricity 
bills allowing her to work out the benefit she was receiving. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Mitsubishi has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mrs Ss s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Mitsubishi) has expired under the 
Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
Im satisfied Mitsubishi has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
Mitsubishi has offered £300 as a gesture of goodwill because it accepts that it may have 
caused some confusion by saying the claim was made out of time but then commenting on 
its merits. I think that offer is fair.
Im aware Mrs S has said that as a consumer she wasnt aware of any time limits that would 
affect her ability to make a claim. Whilst I understand her point, the time limits are set out in 
law  and so I cant say its unreasonable for Mitsubishi to apply them. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mrs S was unable to make a claim within time. So, 
Mitsubishi would have no liability under s.75. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
should pay Mrs S £300 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman