DRN-3012433
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax put a default on his credit file 
when he didnt pay back an outstanding overdraft. Mr B said this would affect him for many 
years.
What happened
Mr B told us he switched banks, away from Halifax. He said that meant he had an overdraft 
of £1,200 to pay off at Halifax. He was in financial difficulties at the time, and he asked for 
more time to pay. But he said that when he had to pay, he couldnt contact anyone to make 
payment. He said he hoped someone would get in touch with him, but no one did. 
Mr B said he had the money now to pay, but he now had a mark on his credit file that would 
stay there for six years. He wanted that removed, and said he was happy to pay what he 
owed if this could be taken off. 
Halifax said it had told Mr B he needed to pay this money back when he switched banks, in 
December 2019. It then discussed the account with him a number of times, and placed the 
debt on hold twice in January and in March. But he didnt make any payments into the 
account. So Halifax wrote to him on 3 April 2020 to say the account would be closed after 30 
days if he hadnt paid the balance. Halifax said it had then defaulted Mr Bs account, in May 
2020, and this mark would stay on his credit file for six years. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax had shown it 
was willing to work with Mr B so he could repay what he owed. Our investigator said Halifax 
had explained that not paying could affect Mr Bs credit file. And Halifaxs collections 
department was open throughout the pandemic. Its branches were open too. But no 
payments were made. 
Our investigator said that she didnt think Halifax had made a mistake by recording a default 
on Mr Bs credit file, and she said it didnt have to remove this now.
Mr B said he didnt accept this outcome. He wanted the case reopened. He did accept that 
this was his mistake, and he told us the balance had now been paid. Mr B repeated that he 
was having financial difficulties at the time. And he saidt he needed to apply for a mortgage 
soon. Having this on his credit file would make things very difficult for him. 
Mr B wanted this case to be passed to an ombudsman. He said he wanted to escalate this 
complaint until he was happy with the results. He said hed been unable to pay at the time 
because he was unemployed, but could easily pay now hed secured work. 
Our investigator explained that the next stage (which is this decision) would be the last one, 
and we cant do anything beyond that. 
This case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this complaint, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
I can see from notes taken at the time that Mr B was in contact with Halifax about this debt. 
He transferred some money in by accident, and Halifax helped him to get this back, although 
it warned him that this would increase his debt. 
I understand that Mr B was in a difficult financial position in late 2020 and early 2021, when 
this money needed to be paid back. But I do think that Halifax tried to help Mr B. It has 
repeatedly extended the time for him to pay. And when it put the debt on hold for a second 
time in March, it warned him he would need to repay after this. 
It looks, from the notes that Halifax made at the time, as if Mr B had said at the start of 
March that he was then in a better financial position. It appears that Mr B agreed to pay. But 
we know that he didnt make any payment onto the account. So I dont think that Halifax 
made a mistake when it then closed and defaulted this account.
Mr B says that he doesnt think this is fair, because hes now in a position to pay, and this 
mark on his credit file will affect him for years to come. He wanted Halifax to remove the 
default, in return for him clearing the debt. But unfortunately, thats not how a credit file 
works. Halifax is actually under a legal obligation to tell credit reference agencies if its asked 
Mr B for payment, and he hasnt paid. And if Halifax didnt make a mistake putting this 
default onto Mr Bs credit file, then it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in this case for me to 
tell it to take this off. 
I understand that Mr B will be very disappointed, but I dont think Halifax has to take this 
default off his credit file now. And that means this complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman