DRN-3467256
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc failed to prevent an unidentified third party from 
impersonating him and allowed them to open an account in his name.
What happened
Mr H was a victim of identity theft. Various fraudulent activities were carried out using Mr Hs 
identity, including the opening of a TSB account in early 2021. The account had some 
general use on it, but it seems its main use was to deposit funds from the sale of a property 
in July 2021. The funds from the sale were transferred out of the account and general 
spending continued which took the account into the overdraft. 
TSB contacted Mr H about the overdraft on the account. Mr H explained he had been a 
victim of identity theft. TSB investigated the matter. Its review resulted in it writing off the 
debt, removing any reference to the account on his credit file and registered a protective 
marker to help protect Mr H from other fraudulent applications.
Mr H complained to TSB about the account. In particular Mr H questioned the procedure 
TSB followed out when they opened the account. He was also unhappy with information he 
during his correspondence with TSB.
TSB explained that the necessary checks were carried out, and the details provided by the 
fraudster were in line with its requirements. TSB also reviewed the calls Mr H had with 
members of staff and explained Mr H had been given the right information. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and asked us to look at his complaint. The 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary, they said the fraudulent application 
had been checked, and as it met TSBs requirements the account was opened. The 
investigator also thought TSB had treated Mr H fairly whilst dealing with his complaint. 
Mr H did not agree with the investigator review, so the case has been referred to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not asking TSB to do 
anything further, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I am very sorry to see Mr H has been a victim of impersonation fraud. This is an 
upsetting and frightening thing to happen. I recognise that this has been an extremely 
stressful and worrying time for Mr H. The person ultimately responsible for this upset is of 
course the fraudster, and sadly theres little I can do to reduce the upset the fraudster has 
caused. This decision considers TSBs role in the situation. 
Opening the account
Mr H has raised concerns about TSBs processes and the fraudsters ability to open the 
account. Mr H says TSBs checks were not thorough enough and this has resulted in the 
fraudster being able to open the account and use it to launder money. I have considered Mr 
Hs comments alongside what we know about how the account was opened. In this situation 
it was for TSB to decide if the application met their account opening criteria. 
TSB has provided the online application form which was completed at the time. The form 
contains Mr Hs details, which all appear to be accurate. TSB has confirmed it cross 
referenced these details with other agencies when carrying out credit checks and no red 
flags were raised. 
TSB says it used electronic identification verification checks when the account was opened 
as it was applied for online. The fraudster provided a fake driving licence. Mr H says this 
shouldve been picked up by TSB when the application was made. TSB has said the licence 
looked genuine, and the details within it matched those included in the application form. Mr 
H explained the numbers on the front and back of the licence were different which shows the 
licence was a fake. TSB has confirmed this is not the case, both numbers are different as 
they represent different licence details. Ive looked at the details and the licence and I agree 
with TSB that it doesnt seem to contain anything that would raise concerns as they are 
meant to be different. I am also satisfied that when the licence was looked at alongside the 
application there wouldnt have been any obvious reason for TSB to make any further 
enquiries.
I understand this is frustrating for Mr H, but a bank will have its own set requirements which 
must be met when accounts are opened. These criteria must strike a balance between 
carrying out diligent checks and providing accessible services. Mr H has himself explained 
the fraudster had access to a significant amount of information about him, so opening the 
account with TSB wouldve been relatively straight forward once this information was in their 
possession. 
Account activity
Mr H says once the account was opened, the activity within the account shouldve alerted 
TSB to fact it was being used for criminal activity. In particular Mr H says the proceeds of the 
fraudulent sale of his home were deposited in the account.
TSB issued a debit card and PIN to the registered address for the account. The card was 
initially used for general spending. In July 2021 the proceeds of the sale of a property were 
deposited into the account and then transferred out a few days later. TSB has provided 
internal notes and the statements for the account. Looking at these it seems TSB was 
informed by the account holder about the large incoming payment and subsequent transfer. 
Given this I think it was reasonable for TSB to allow the movement of this large sum of 
money and it explains why no internal triggers were activated. So whilst I agree with Mr H 
that there were multiple transactions, I dont think TSB acted unreasonably given the 
circumstances. I can also see that in September 2021 after continued activity on the account 
a block was added, and once it was established the account was fraudulent the overdraft 
amount was cleared. 
It seems Mr H has been the subject of an extremely sophisticated and well organised identity 
theft fraud. All the details held by TSB were linked to the fraudster, so I think there was very 
little chance of this activity being picked up. TSB has also shown that online banking was 
used for the account, so the fraudsters were able to regularly check the account and make use of it. Unfortunately, it was only once the funds were emptied from the account that Mr H 
became aware of the existence of the account. So, I dont think any additional steps by TSB 
at the outset wouldve prevented the situation unfolding as it did. 
Customer service
Mr H has raised concerns about the information he was given during his dealing with TSB. In 
one telephone call he says he was told the account would be stopped. Mr H took this to 
mean the account would be shut down. TSB has explained that the account was suspended 
whilst TSB conducted its review into the issues Mr H raised. This is standard practice whilst 
an account review is carried out, so I dont think TSB has done anything wrong here. 
I can see Mr H has also raised concerns about a telephone number being provided to him 
and this being a breach of his data rights. However, it appears the number disclosed was 
that of the fraudsters. I dont think this has an impact on Mr H and his right to data privacy. 
I think TSB has acted fairly in terms of the debt on the account. It stopped all 
correspondence to Mr H about the overdraft and it has ensured the unpaid overdraft hasnt 
negatively affected his credit file. I appreciate that in light of what Mr H has been through 
these steps seem inadequate. But I dont think TSB couldve done anything else in light of 
the evidence Ive seen. 
I know this will not be the outcome Mr H was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But this final decision ends what our service can do for him. However, 
he can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman