DRN-3763735
The complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to IFM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr M was concerned about what some of the early announcements by his employer meant 
for the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was 
referred to IFM which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr M was described as being in good health and at the time of the advice he had 
accrued around 20 years of pension benefits with the BSPS.
He was 49 years old, married with a child at university. He and Mrs M lived in a home 
with a mortgage outstanding. Mrs M worked and also had limited pension provision of 
her own resulting from various employments over the years.
Mr M earned around £43,000 per year in the steel industry. After all their monthly 
household expenses, he and Mrs M had some modest disposable income left over. 
Mr and Mrs M had no existing savings recorded. They also had no other major 
assets or liabilities recorded.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms BSPS was approximately 
£304,177. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Mr M had told the adviser hed 
like to retire earlier than this if possible; the age of 60 was mentioned.
IFM set out its advice in a suitability report on 20 July 2017. In this it advised Mr M to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. IFM said this would 
allow Mr M to achieve his objectives. Mr M accepted this advice and so transferred out. In 
late 2021 Mr M complained to IFM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised 
to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr M then referred his complaint to our Service in 2022. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and said it should be upheld. IFM didnt respond. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, IFM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Introductory issuesIFM was gathering information and ultimately advised Mr M at a time when there was 
significant uncertainty and updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS 
and the BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that 
details of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to 
make a choice. 
It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Ms employer was 
likely to result in an improvement to transfer values and that members with unexpired 
transfer values would be sent updated valuations  probably improved ones  which would 
be guaranteed until at least December 2017. A strategic lump sum payment to the BSPS 
was also confirmed just before IFM gave Mr M advice. 
However, IFM proceeded with the advice to Mr M without really accounting for any of this. It 
didnt delay providing the advice so there were no comparisons carried out of the benefits 
the BSPS2 would potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr M had 
received in June 2017, which was due to expire in late September 2017. 
So, all the ongoing announcements indicated there would be forthcoming information 
available. In my view this meant that in order to give Mr M enough information to make a 
fully informed decision about what was in his best interests, I think IFM should have told him 
to defer making a final decision on possibly transferring away until further details of the 
BSPS2 were known and revised transfer values received. Transferring out of a DB scheme 
is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme 
are usually lost forever. 
The announcements indicated thus far were that Mr M would be afforded time to think about 
his options  so the deadline in the original transfer quotation became less relevant. And 
waiting wouldve allowed IFM to carry out an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and to properly 
compare these to the alternatives, and base its advice on this. Without doing this, IFM was 
acting on information which it knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could 
properly assess whether a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests.
Financial viability 
To help demonstrate the limited information available at the time, Ive noted the issuing of 
the transfer analysis document  often referred to as a TVAS - was on 3 August 2017. This 
TVAS was comparing the pension benefits (as then currently known) with a personal 
pension fund managed by a major insurer. 
However, we know that IFM issued its formal suitability advice on 20 July 2017, so 
apparently some two weeks before the TVAS was even produced. This appears to mean 
that Mr M had been recommended to transfer before the comprehensive analysis had been 
done. IFM said this anomaly was due to a backlog caused by worried BSPS members 
seeking advice in high number (and therefore a high volume of TVAS reports). 
Im sure thats right, but of course, it effectively means that IFM recommended to Mr M that 
he should transfer away from the BSPS without the full analysis to show this was what he 
really ought to do. IFM said about this, we had by then conducted a large number of TVAS 
reports and comparisons [for other people]  and our analysis to date had shown annual 
investment returns of around 6  8% were required in order to match the benefits at 65.
To me, all this is evidence of a somewhat cavalier approach to recommending such an 
important financial transaction to Mr M, although in the event, it doesnt really change 
anything. Thats because IFM referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to certain 
critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide 
the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, IFM used the existing scheme 
(BSPS) for the critical yield comparisons, rather than awaiting the new BSPS2 arrival. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr M was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan. IFM itself also 
referred several times in the advice to potential growth in the transferred funds, and I think it 
was trying to show Mr M that transferring away from his DB scheme was much better for 
growth. I explain further down how the critical yields dont support this. 
As Ive said above, IFM had already said most of its clients were seeing critical yields of 
around 6-8%. And in the analysis it eventually published, the critical yield required to match 
the benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 7.2%. Compared against the lesser benefits 
of the PPF, the critical yield was 4.7%. Mr M had apparently expressed a desire to retire 
early, potentially at 60, but IFM didnt calculate a critical yield for this age. So this too wasnt 
really giving Mr M the information he needed to make an informed decision. 
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a long way off for Mr M and so I 
very much doubt whether retiring at 60 was anything more than something he just aspired to, 
rather than being part of a real plan. Hes confirmed this to our Service and Ive also noted 
anomalies on documentation from the time which suggested Mr M might wish to take his 
pension benefits even earlier. This is because Ive seen notes where the adviser said he 
might access them within five-to-seven years. Mr M would have barely reached his mid-
fifties by this point.
However, putting all these inconsistencies aside for a moment, IFM did imply the critical yield 
rates were, in the view of the adviser, probably unachievable; but it didnt really fully explain 
why. It also gave Mr M some mixed messages about this as Ive seen an email exchange 
where the adviser told Mr M he could expect growth of around 5% annually. This seems to 
have been based on recent past performance and also appears at odds with the large 
insurers own annual growth assumptions which were much lower than this.
However, to be clear, I too think the critical yields were most likely not achievable viewed 
through the lens of when the advice was given. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate was only 4.3% per year for 15 years to retirement (age 65), which 
is below all of the critical yield figures. This indicated annual growth potentially below the 
critical yield rate. For a retirement at 60, Ive calculated the discount rate as only 3.8%, again 
well below the annual growth rate Mr M would need to make transferring financially viable. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Mr M had a low 
attitude to risk (ATR), and he himself was told in documentation he received from the 
personal pension plan fund that the average annual growth in a personal plan might only be 
around 2.44%. So, if IFM was assuming growth of over 7.2% (the critical yield) over such a 
long period in the future, this probably wasnt credible.In relation to the PPF, the critical yields to match the benefits available through the PPF at 
age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF 
and IFM itself says Mr M wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important 
to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension 
such as the one being recommended to Mr M, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, IFMs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr M would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, IFM could 
have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr M when the situation with BSPS2 
became clearer  we know this was becoming available at around the time and shortly 
thereafter. 
Ive also considered some projections IFM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr M well into retirement. I think its fair to say these were 
certainly not comparing like-with-like. What IFM was showing Mr M were comparisons with 
plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. They relied on investment 
risk which I think was too high, factored in over many years and based on past performance. 
Some of the scenarios showed Mr M running out of money at certain ages, but his DB 
scheme would have been guaranteed for life.
Of course, according to IFM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, IFM said Mr M also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive considered with care everything IFM has said about the rationale for transferring. And I 
think its fair to summarise the reasons it set out as being around greater flexibility and 
meeting some of the aspirations Mr M had for retirement. The suitability report noted, for 
example, that remaining with a DB scheme would allow Mr M to take early retirement this 
was subject to an early retirement factor.
I have therefore used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise 
the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away. Mr M was asked 
to fill out a questionnaire about his objectives and priorities, although I think that its very 
important to note that the themes on the form were already pre-printed. So the form he was 
asked to make selections on already assumed a number of areas considered to be of 
general importance to consumers like Mr M. It invited Mr M to select some. He ticked:
I would like the flexibility, at retirement, to control the way benefits are paid. I would 
like to make this decision depending on my circumstances at that time.
A higher Tax-Free Cash lump sum would be tax efficient; this is important to me.
I anticipate early retirement and I am happy to accept a lower pension.
I wish to increase death benefits if this does not reduce my own potential retirement 
benefits.I am very concerned about my pension and wish to take action to ensure it is secure.
I wish to take action to ensure that my pension fund is removed from the control of 
my previous [sic] employer
I do not value the guarantee provided by the PPF
Control of my benefits is of paramount importance
Because these areas were already pre-determined, its hard to say how much Mr M 
considered them to be of importance. They had not come from him, rather they were already 
on a published list. But I think its important to say that IFM was being paid for this advice. 
Its job therefore wasnt to just transact what Mr M might have thought sounded like good 
ideas. He had every right to expect advice from someone who was qualified and 
experienced. So IFMs job was to really think about what was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Perhaps more relevant, were the priorities written on the suitability report by the adviser:
IFM said Mr M required the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount 
of income he could receive from his pension fund in retirement to suit his 
circumstances, as opposed to what IFM said was the pre-set income that his DB 
scheme would provide.
It also said he wanted to ensure he could retire when he wished, and he didnt want 
to take the risk of the scheme entering the PPF.
IFM said he was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility 
I have considered all these issues with care.
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr M approached IFM for advice because of the uncertainties he 
faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
However, overall I think the adviser focused heavily on transferring away, rather than starting 
by assessing whether BSPS2 could meet Mr Ms retirement needs and objectives. I think the 
adviser just promoted the more flexible arrangements which Mr M would find with a personal 
pension plan. 
However, I think its important to specifically focus for a moment here on Mr Ms 
comparatively young age by pension standards. He was only 49 and in good health.  The 
evidence Ive seen here is that Mr M  understandably - had no concrete plans for his 
retirement. He had only referred to the possibility of retiring at 60, which was clearly 
aspirational rather than a definite plan. Not much information about Mrs Ms situation was 
collected at the time although I think her job, salary and pension should all have been part of 
the planning process. But we do know Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage and seemed to have 
no other sizable savings or investments. Mrs M didnt have a large pension provision. So, at 
the very least, their overall circumstances provided uncertainty about when retiring 
realistically might be possible for Mr M. 
In my view, this underscores that any formal retirement plans, viewed from the age of 49, 
were probably still some way off. The adviser should have known this. There was still over 
15 years left to when Mr M would be actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA of 65. 
And even if I did use the age of 60, this was a decade away and theres simply no way he 
should have been advised to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme just yet. Doing so involved an investment risk which I dont think Mr M was comfortable with  and as Ive 
shown above - would likely mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Ms retirement hopes were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by IFM - and he really did comprehensively plan to retire 
early - I think IFM should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a 
member of the BSPS2 for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, 
would still have been an option for Mr M and IFM should have awaited the details of the new 
scheme which were being progressed at the time. Retiring early from a DB scheme, such as 
BSPS2 would simply have meant Mr Ms pension benefits would have been somewhat 
different, due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. 
I think its likely IFM also promoted to Mr M that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. Mr M had selected this area from the pre-determined 
options list on the questionnaire. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a 
lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more 
tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But IFM should have been telling Mr M at the time that extra tax-free lump sums 
being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 60 in his case, also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other viable options Mr M faced; in 
my view this included opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility and control
In a similar vein, IFM basically said hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits 
taken at retirement and also vary his retirement income. 
However, I cant see that Mr M required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser 
suggested. In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by IFM. I therefore think this was no 
more than a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a 
personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr M required changing how his 
retirement benefits ought to be paid. He already had started a new and more flexible DC 
pension with his job. I accept this DC pension was only a few months old, but it was being 
substantially contributed towards by both Mr M and his employer. Mr M would have been 
able to increase contributions in the years ahead if he felt this was warranted and of course, 
he still had over 15 years left to run (over 10 years if he did eventually retire early). So, this 
secondary pension would have contributed towards Mr M obtaining any flexibility he might 
have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr M wouldnt want to continue with 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally 
intended. Indeed, I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr M could have 
been in an agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing DB scheme of 
considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes 
normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Its fair to say 
that significant indexation guarantees were going to exist within BSPS2 and the scheme was 
still underpinned by the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a new DC scheme 
over a still significant period of time  up to 15 years. So, if Mr M ever found he needed 
flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.Ive also seen no credible evidence that Mr M had either the capacity or desire to exercise 
control over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr M was being offered the opportunity to 
transfer to the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when 
compared to the original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for 
him by trustees. Mr M himself had limited knowledge and experience of these types of 
money market investments and I think he would have found the complexity, scale and 
responsibility of managing around £300,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years 
ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr M would have required ongoing financial advice 
and support, all of which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from 
him.
IFM itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. Of course, its always 
difficult to think about what one might need in todays money and to then assess whether 
the projected retirement income would be enough to live on. But in my view, Mr Ms 
projected DB scheme annual pension was a very reasonable income when comparing 
against what he might need in retirement. 
IFMs suitability report said, your deferred pension available at age 65 currently stands at a 
full pension of £12,972 a year  and  based on the current value of your deferred benefits, 
I estimate that if you were 60 now, the pension available would be around £10,637 per year. 
The actual figure at 60 will be more than this when making an allowance for inflation but in 
real terms it will be broadly equivalent to £10,637 now. And it certainly isnt unreasonable to 
say that by then, Mr M could have built up a meaningful DC fund in his new pension after he 
and his employer had been contributing for quite a few years. We now know Mrs M also had 
a number of modest DC pensions of her own. 
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ms pension entitlements wouldnt have met his 
and Mrs Ms anticipated income requirements, without any need to transfer away from the 
DB scheme. These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current 
members were given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) just after the time 
this advice was being sought. I dont think IFM adequately explained these things to Mr M as 
its advice simply focussed on him transferring away and into a personal pension 
arrangement to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Ms circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to potentially retire a little earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to. 
Doing this from the position of BSPS2 was possible  there would have been an actuarial 
reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a smaller 
second DC pension, and Mrs M had som, albeit small, pensions, this supported that 
strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS and BSPS2 contained certain 
benefits payable to a spouse if Mr M died. Mr M was married and so in my view this 
represented a good benefit. Conversely, the adviser told Mr M that hed be able to pass on 
the whole value of a personal pension if he died, potentially tax-free, to anyone he 
nominated. This was listed under the heading, Recommended Alternative.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think IFM explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.
Mr M was only 49 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr M had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned  IFMs defence of this 
complaint is effectively predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a healthy male retiring at 60 would likely have many years ahead in which he 
would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to someone.
I think life insurance was probably discussed in this case and Ive noted that whilst 
employed, Mr M had some death in service protection. But again, the adviser failed to 
present all the relevant options about insurance to Mr M, because they were wholly focussed 
on transferring him away from a DB scheme and into a personal pension plan. I dont think 
this was good advice or advice that was in Mr Ms best interests.
I say this because if Mr M died, the spouses pension with BSPS2 was guaranteed for Mrs 
Ms whole life. Also, at 49 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been 
a reasonably affordable product for Mr M if he really did insist on leaving a lump-sum (rather 
than an annual pension) legacy for Mrs M, or indeed anyone else such as a child. It also 
doesnt appear that IFM took into account the fact that Mr M could have nominated a 
beneficiary of any funds remaining in his new DC scheme. Therefore, to that end, Mr M 
already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ms situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
IFM said Mr M wanted to break ties with British Steel and it provided this as part of the 
rationale for recommending a transfer away. However, theres simply no evidence this was a 
genuine reason to transfer to a personal pension plan. The box Mr M appears to have ticked 
in the fact-find which relates to this point is a pre-populated one and I think this waters 
down its relevance. 
Even so, I can understand that when Mr M met with IFM he may have been concerned about 
the overall financial stability of the BSPS pension. Lots of his former colleagues at the time 
were considering transferring out of the scheme and he may have worried that his pension 
could end up in the PPF. If the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think the adviser 
should have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr M thought. He was still unlikely 
to match, let alone exceed, the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred 
out to a personal pension plan. I dont think that this was properly explained to him. So, I 
dont think that these concerns should have led to IFMs recommendation to Mr M to transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
IFM recommended that Mr M invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised not to transfer and so the 
investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. 
I accept that Mr M entered into this advice worried about the future and to a degree, he 
portrayed the BSPS and BSPS2 in a negative way. However, as Ive said, as a regulated 
adviser being paid for this advice, IFMs job was to provide information and advice that was 
in Mr Ms best interests. Instead of assessing whether Mr M might meet his retirement 
objectives by becoming a member of BSPS2, the adviser focussed wholly on transferring 
away. 
This meant Mr M was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows he was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. IFM gave mixed messages about this which I can see Mr M found 
confusing.
I also dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. The implication that Mr M was certain to retire early wasnt borne out by the 
evidence. Neither was his apparent needs for flexibility and control of his funds, moving 
forward. These things werent properly defined and like the advice around death benefits, 
they represented nothing more than stock objectives used to justify the transfer-out 
recommendation. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity soon of opting into the BSPS2. I also don't 
think that it was in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. Doing this wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr M would have retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he really needed to. The annual indexation 
of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think IFM should have taken a short time to consider all the changes in the 
BSPS and then duly advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr M would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that IFM disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr M, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr M to transfer out, and I think Mr M relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against IFMs advice. I say this because Mr M was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for IFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. IFM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what the business based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
This pension at the time represented nearly all of Mr Ms retirement provision. I believe the 
uncertainty and worrying impact of this unsuitable advice caused him distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore also order IFM to pay an additional £250 to Mr M.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman