DRN-3648545
The complaint
Via her legal representative, Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires Mortgages (Birmingham Midshires) is trying to make her pay an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) despite the fact that it doesnt have her signature on the 
mortgage offer which sets out said ERC. She would like it to be waived and the account fully 
closed.
She is also unhappy with the management of the direct debit on her account by Birmingham 
Midshires, and its failure to respond to her legal representatives concerns.
What happened
In September 2019 Birmingham Midshires made Miss P an offer of a fixed rate mortgage 
product. This was arranged by Miss Ps brokers, who gave her the necessary advice and 
liaised with Birmingham Midshires.
Using a broker-specific instruction form to Birmingham Midshires, Miss Ps brokers 
effectively accepted the offer on her behalf and the new product completed on 30 September 
2019.
In April 2021 Miss P contacted Birmingham Midshires to discuss a few options with regard to 
her mortgage. She said she believed that her fixed rate product would expire in September 
2021. The Birmingham Midshires agent explained that it did not in fact end until 31 January 
2022. So changes prior to that date would be potentially subject to an ERC. Miss P 
expressed her surprise, saying she believed that in 2019 she agreed only to a two-year fixed 
term product. The Birmingham Midshires agent told her that wasnt the case.
In October 2021 Miss P sold her property and redeemed her mortgage. When she was told 
that an ERC was due, she refused to pay, saying she had been told that she was fixing her 
mortgage product for only two years, and that is what she had agreed to. Her legal 
representatives complained to Birmingham Midshires, saying it could not enforce the ERC 
as it did not have Miss Ps signature on the mortgage offer. Birmingham Midshires 
disagreed, and so Miss Ps representatives came to this Service. However, it did accept that 
it had not responded in a timely way to Miss Ps representatives letters, so offered £80 by 
way of compensation for poor service.
Having reviewed the evidence, the investigator didnt think Birmingham Midshires had done 
anything wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss Ps representatives dont accept that 
and asked an Ombudsman to look at her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I need to clarify my role as an Ombudsman, and indeed the function of this Service. 
It is my statutory role to make decisions to resolve disputes based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. In reaching that decision I take 
various things into account, such as rules, regulations, law, best industry practice and also 
what the average person would consider to be reasonable. This latter element is 
sometimes referred to as the Clapham Omnibus test.
Miss Ps representatives are unhappy that the investigator has shown a lack of 
understanding ofthe basic elements of contract law in his handling of this complaint. 
And that the issue of law has not been addressed. It would appear to me that they are 
seeking a determination from this Service which says that a mortgage offer which does not 
have a borrowers wet signature has no validity, as a principle of contract law. If that is the 
precise issue they wish to have resolved, they will need to take it through the courts. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service exists to provide informal dispute resolution. Whilst I must 
consider law as part of my deliberations, it is not my role to resolve legal queries of this 
nature, but to determine what, in the round, is a fair and reasonable outcome to a situation.
To do so, I have identified the key issues on which I make findings. I have read the entire 
file for this case, but do not need to refer to every single point raised in order to reach a fair 
answer.
Miss P says she believed in October 2019 that she was entering into a two-year fixed deal, 
which she therefore assumed would end in October 2021. That is presumably on the basis 
of what her brokers told her. That timeframe of two years is not mentioned anywhere in the 
relevant paperwork produced by Birmingham Midshires. So she will need to take up that 
point with her brokers. I have seen nothing to lead me to conclude that Birmingham 
Midshires misled her on this point.
When Miss P spoke to Birmingham Midshires in April 2021, her representatives say that 
the agent again described the fixed term as having been two years, but that because Miss 
Ps brokers didnt register the product change until January 2020, that is why in fact the 
term wasnt ultimately set to end until January 2022. Unfortunately I havent been able to 
listen to that call recording, but I dont consider that I need to in order to reach a decision. 
Even if that is what was said, that doesnt make any sense, given the mortgage offer dated 
September 2019, which repeatedly says that the term will end in, and an ERC payable 
until, January 2022. Fixed rate deals such as this one are fixed to a certain date, applicable 
to all customers who sign up to it. I am not clear what is being referred to as a registration 
process in this instance, but no such process could alter the end date of a fixed rate deal.
Its not in dispute that a rate switch occurred in 2019. However, Miss Ps representatives 
suggest that she was not provided with the mortgage offer during the sale:
we questioned why our client had not been given these documents before the 
product was put in place.
As Miss P appointed brokers to act on her behalf as intermediaries, it would typically be for 
them to review the relevant paperwork with her and receive her instructions.
In any event, I can find no evidence of a mistake by Birmingham Midshires in this respect. 
The mortgage offer was generated by it, provided to Miss Ps brokers, and accepted on her 
behalf by the same brokers.
Now I turn to the issue which appears to be at the heart of the matter for Miss Ps 
representatives  namely that Birmingham Midshires has no signed mortgage offer, 
consequently it is unenforceable.As a basic foundation, I dont think the average person on the street believes in this day 
and age that any document without a wet signature is effectively null and void. With the 
increasing use of a range of electronic systems and portals to make important 
arrangements, I dont think the presence or absence of a wet signature is pivotal. So the 
lack of it on the 2019 mortgage offer is of little import in my view. As Miss Ps 
representatives provided us with the 2019 mortgage offer when they first brought this 
complaint, it follows that both she and they have been in possession of it for at least twelve 
months. It quite clearly sets out in section 10 that, between 31 January 2021 and 31 
January 2022, an ERC of £2,200 will be payable if the mortgage is redeemed.
Indeed, if I were to accept Miss Ps representatives logic, namely that the 2019 mortgage 
offer has no basis in law as a contract, that would effectively make it null and void. In which 
case, if the 2019 mortgage offer were disregarded, Miss P would have had to pay more 
than £114 extra per month in mortgage repayments since October 2019. That is because 
her previous fixed rate mortgage product, which began in June 2017, expired in September 
2019. At that point the interest rate she would have been charged, but for the 2019 
mortgage offer and new fixed rate product, would have been more than twice what she had 
been charged up until then. So if I were to conclude that the 2019 mortgage offer should 
be set aside due to a lack of a wet signature, Miss P would owe Birmingham Midshires well 
over £2,700. This complaint would then have no basis as she would have suffered no 
financial loss.
In the round, and noting the role of Miss Ps broker in the arrangement of this mortgage 
product, I think Birmingham Midshires acts both fairly and reasonably in conducting its 
business relationship with Miss P on the basis of the mortgage offer dated 17 September 
2019. That offer makes the ERC payable clear, and I have identified no reasonable 
grounds on which it should be waived.
In respect of the concerns about potentially cancelled, then reinstated, direct debit 
arrangements in October 2021, I have been given no evidence to show that any direct 
debit instruction has caused a loss to Miss P. And there has been no suggestion of any 
transactions taking place since the mortgage was redeemed  both parties appear to 
accept that the full ERC remains in dispute, not a reduced amount as a result of any debits 
taken by Birmingham Midshires. So I need make no further findings on this point.
In respect of the lack of response by Birmingham Midshires to Miss Ps legal 
representatives, I consider that the £80 it has already offered is sufficient to compensate 
for any customer service failures.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Birmingham Midshires 
doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman