Page 1 of 7 The complaint  
Mr and Mrs X have complained about their let property insurer Aviva Insurance Limited 
because it had refused their claim for damage found at their property after the tenant had 
been evicted. As Mr X has mainly dealt with things, my decision will mostly ref er to him only.  
What happened  
In January 2021 Mr X told Aviva he may have to make a claim for damage caused at his 
property by his tenant. But he said he would first have to evict him. The tenant was evicted 
and in June 2021 Mr X made a claim. He told Aviva about threatening emails the  tenant had 
sent him.  
Aviva sent its field surveyor to the property. He spoke to the managing agent and took 
photos. It was decided that the condition at the property had resulted from a tenant 
breaching their tenancy agreement, not malicious damage as co vered for by the policy. It 
said it didnt meet the definition of malicious persons and intent under the policy. Aviva also 
said it felt that if there had been malicious damage, that would have been caused over 
several incidents and a policy excess would a pply to each.  
Mr X  was unhappy. He complained to us.  
Our Investigator felt Aviva should be covering most of the damage, reimbursing Mr X s costs 
for completed repairs and lost rent plus 8% simple per year interest and paying £200 
compensation.  
Mr X  didnt think the remedy went far enough. Aviva disagreed with the findings. The 
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.  
I felt the complaint should be upheld. But for reasons and to an extent different from those 
set out by our Investigat or. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision to explain my views to 
both parties. My findings from that provisional decision were:  
Aviva has often during this claim referred to whether or not the problems at Mr X s property 
amount to malicious damage. But the policy Mr X  has with Aviva offers cover for damage 
caused by malicious persons. In the policy damage is described as loss, destruction or 
damage. No definition is given for malicious persons (other than to say this does not mean 
thieves). There is clearly some loss, destruction or damage at Mr X s property  although 
the specifics of that need some consideration. So the only other thing Mr X  has to show is 
that the damage was caused by a malicious person.  
DRN-3664893Page 2 of 7  Ive seen an email and heard a voicemail Mr X  received from the tenant. I know Mr X  has 
shared some of the content of those with Aviva previously. I wont quote them here. But  
I think its fair to say they are threatening and do show the tenant to be malicious in nature. 
So it seems to me that there is damage at the property which was caused by a malicious 
person. As such, I think Aviva acted unfairly and unreasonably when it declined the claim.  
 
However, as I said, the problem s at the property though do need some closer consideration. 
In short, I dont think Aviva fairly and reasonably has to settle for everything noted. Aviva has 
already set out some thoughts it has on the different areas of repair as part of its replies to 
Mr X . So Ill look at each of the areas/items reported as in need of repair and decide whether 
or not Aviva has to cover them. For the avoidance of doubt I dont intend to allow Aviva to 
apply an excess for each area of damage I find it is liable for. The po licy allows Aviva to 
charge an excess per claim, not per instance of damage. And Mr X  has only made one 
claim. Furthermore, this service often doesnt find it fair for an insurer to charge multiple 
excesses for damage caused in the same way. But we will of ten allow one excess per type 
of damage. So Ill likely only allow Aviva to apply one policy excess per type/cause of 
damage on any settlement I  award.  
 
I think there is a difference between damage and something having been changed. A policy 
like the one o ffered by Aviva isnt offered to cover instances where tenants make changes to 
the home. And I dont think it is fair to stretch the definition of damage to something which is 
merely different from what it was before but still performs similarly. Here I  am specifically 
referring to the grass being changed to astro -turf, the laminate flooring being changed to 
vinyl and carpet and the tile by the front door being replaced with cement. I dont intend to 
require Aviva to reinstate these areas to how they wer e before.  
 
There are a number of items though which I think, from the photos, it is clear the malicious 
tenant damaged or destroyed. For example; the shed, which is clearly no longer in tact in the 
back garden, has been destroyed. And, in another example, the kitchen wall units, which 
cant be used in their dismantled state on the kitchen floor, are damaged.  I think Aviva will 
need to reinstate all the following areas in respect of each item Ive listed here:  
 The kitchen  wall and extractor units removed and  dismantled.  
 The sitting room  boxing in removed, writing on the wall, hole in plasterboard, smoke 
alarm hanging from  ceiling.  
 The back garden  the gate has been barred and nailed in place, the shed has been 
destroyed.  
 
Aviva doesnt seem to have considered the cover on the policy for theft. Where items are 
missing and have not been returned by the tenan t, I think Aviva is reasonably liable for them 
under the theft section of cover. After all, Mr X  has been deprived of them. So Aviva I think is 
liable for the missing pavers, window keys, patio door locks and bedroom carpet. I note the 
garden is full of de bris  it is possible the carpet in particular is amongst all that. But I think 
its fair to say that in putting a carpet outside there is an intention for it to not be used again. 
So I still think that the bedroom carpet, even if it is found within the pr operty boundaries, can 
still reasonably be considered under the theft cover.  
 
Aviva noted damage internally to the front door which has been patch repaired with 
expanding foam filler. I think Aviva has a point when it says this looks like a poor repair. Bu t 
what Aviva did not note, but Mr X  has provided photos of, is the damage to the door handle, 
potentially the locking mechanism and certainly the door frame. Mr X  says this was done by 
the police, Aviva said even if the door was damaged by the police gaini ng entry to evict the 
tenant, that wouldnt fall for cover under the policy because it wasnt an emergency. I think 
Aviva is wrong in this respect. The policy gives cover for damage caused by the emergency 
services. It does not specify that this has to b e done in the course of the services attending 
to an emergency situation. So if Mr X  can show that the police forced entry, I think Aviva  Page 3 of 7  should cover the resultant damage to the door  the handle, lock mechanism if this was 
affected and the frame. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think the areas of door filled with 
expanding foam seem like damage which would occur when a door is forced, to me it looks 
more like an attempt to repair.  
 
The back garden is full of debris. In its current st ate it cannot function as a garden. So I think 
it is suffering damage. And the policy offers cover for debris removal associated with 
damage. So Aviva I think is liable for removing the debris.  
 
A hole has also been dug in the back garden. The garden didn t have a hole before so I think 
it is fair to say the garden, as was, is suffering damage. Similarly, in the front garden, there a 
ruts which werent there before. The policy offers cover for damage to landscaped gardens. 
Im satisfied that Aviva needs to reinstate these areas. But, to be clear, as I said above,  
I dont view the installed astro -turf as equating to damage. My comments here about 
reinstating the gardens on account of the hole and ruts dont change that.  
 
For any of the work I have found Aviva is liable for, and which Mr X  has completed, Aviva 
will have to reimburse his outlay, plus interest*. Interest will have to be applied on each cost 
incurred from the date it was incurred until settlement is made. If a ny of the work I have 
found Aviva is liable for is outstanding, Aviva can either undertake the repairs or settle in 
cash.  
 
The policy covers Mr X  for rent lost whilst the property cant be lived in or accessed. I think it 
seems to have been generally acces sible as the front door was in use. However, I think 
some of the damage did mean the property couldnt be lived in as there was no safe rear 
entrance/exit, and the missing locks meant the property wasnt secure. But I think the house 
could otherwise be liv ed in  whether or not it would have been possible to let it in its 
damaged state is another issue. But the policy doesnt offer cover for lost rent when the 
property cant be let, only when it cant be lived in. So I think Aviva will have to pay Mr X  for 
lost rent in line with the policy cover. As Mr X  has been without the benefit of rental income, 
and Aviva hasnt reimbursed this loss, Aviva will have to add interest* to any settlement it 
makes to Mr X  for lost rent from the date Mr X  would have received rental payments until 
settlement is made.  
 
I think this has been a difficult situation for Mr X . And I think Aviva did fail him by denying 
liability and cover for the majority of the damage he reported. Whilst Aviva made its decision 
and communicated this to Mr X  quite quickly, he has felt the worry caused by that over the 
many months since. He doesnt live at the property so he isnt suffering upset caused by 
living in a damaged home. But he does derive an income from it, so he has had financial 
stress. I think £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.  
 
Aviva said it disagreed with my findings. So did Mr X . 
 
Aviva said it thinks my provisional findings dont view things in the context the policy 
wording meant it to do. It thinks  it should be able to charge more than one excess as the 
issues in question have clearly arisen over a period of time. It argued that whilst I had said 
this should be seen as one event, I was also stating different events, such as theft, should 
be included  in the malicious damage claim.  
 
Mr X  said the items which Id said the tenant had merely changed, had not been changed 
like-for-like. He said the carpet, lino and astro -turf now in place dont perform as the original 
flooring and grass did. Theyd also no t been fitted or looked after properly and didnt cover 
the same areas as those which had been in place before.  Page 4 of 7  Aviva said items in the kitchen, sitting room and back garden which I had detailed as falling 
under the claim for damage cause d by malicious persons, didnt seem to it like damage a 
malicious person would cause. It said there seemed to be no malicious intent behind the 
condition the property had been left in. And the policy requires the police to be notified  
which Mr X  hadnt s hown he had done.  
 
Regarding the items Id said had been stolen, Mr X  said he didnt think that was really the 
case. He, as did Aviva, said the carpet and pavers were still at the property. He said the 
keys and lock mechanisms would be useless to a thief. Aviva also said the policy wording 
excludes theft caused by residents.  
 
Regarding the front door, reportedly damaged by the police, Aviva said evicting a tenant is 
not a criminal matter. It said it would, therefore, question why the police were involved.  
 
In respect of the hole and wheel ruts in the garden, Aviva said it hadnt suffered malicious 
damage. It said whilst it agrees that while the garden is covered in debris it is not 
functionable, this only amounts to a Loss of Enjoyment, not a coverable pe ril under the 
policy.  
 
Mr X  said there was other damage at the property too  a hole in the worktop and a buckled 
exterior door. Hed like all these issues to be recognised as damage caused by malicious 
persons. Mr X  said hed worked to reinstate the prop erty and would like to be paid as a 
contractor would have been  along with receiving compensation for lost wages and time 
spent. In total hed like me to require Aviva to pay him £24,447.01.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
I did not say that Aviva could only charge one excess overall. I specifically explained that an 
excess per claimable event on the policy could be charged. And whilst it is likely that the 
instances of damage caused by the tenant did not occur all at the same time, this services 
approach in claims like this is to say that applying an excess for every instance of damage is 
usually unfair and unreasonable. Eve n where a policy allows for that to be done, which this 
one does not. So I dont intend to change my view on this aspect of the complaint.  
 
Im not sure why Aviva thinks Mr X  did not involve the police. From what I have seen he 
certainly did. Im not persu aded that Avivas now stated concern in this respect means  
I should change my provisional view on this complaint.  
 
There are certain risks in being a landlord of a property. One of those is that the tenant will 
change things at the property. And those chan ges may not leave the property like it was 
before. But I remain of the view that something being different doesnt necessarily mean 
damage has been caused. The floors are still covered, the back garden (under the debris) is 
still green and the finish at th e front of the property is still watertight. None of those things 
are exactly as they were before  different materials have been used and likely not as much 
ground/floor space has been covered. But Im satisfied that changes have been affected 
rather than  damage having been caused.  
 
Im glad to note Aviva has accepted that the back garden was not functioning as such, due 
to the debris left in it. When an item no longer functions it is damaged.  Page 5 of 7  Aviva clearly thinks its policy wording offer s cover for malicious damage and the intent of 
the person doing that damage at the time needs to be taken into consideration. For most 
complaints about claims for malicious damage, Aviva would have a point. But its policy in 
question here, offers cover f or damage caused by malicious persons. That is a subtle but 
significant difference. In considering the complaint I cant go behind that wording or add to it 
to create an interpretation that supports Avivas position of what it thinks the policy should 
say. All I can do is apply the policy wording in place. And that is what Ive done.  
 
Similarly regarding theft  often policys like this will exclude thefts which were either 
perpetrated, or allowed, by the resident of the property. But this policy does not. Im not 
persuaded to change my mind about the policy wording in question and what  that means for 
Mr X s claims.  
 
Im still satisfied it is reasonable to consider that some items were stolen. As I said the items 
listed are no longer available for Mr X  to use, they are either missing or damaged because 
they were taken from where they sho uld have been. So the tenant removed them without 
Mr X s authorisation and he has been permanently deprived of their benefit. Fairly and 
reasonably that is  theft.  
 
As I understand it, when a tenant is evicted, the police do sometimes have to be involved. 
But, in any event, I said provisionally that if Mr X  can show that the police attended and 
forced entry into his property, he can claim for the damage which resulted.  
 
The policy  separately to stating there is cover for damage caused by certain events, su ch 
as theft, says there is cover for damage to landscaped gardens. The wording does not 
require that the damage was caused by something else covered by the policy, or specify 
what sort of damage to the garden needs to have occurred for the cover to apply. Here there 
is a hole in the back garden and wheel ruts in the front. So there is damage to the 
landscaped gardens at the property which Mr X  can claim for, and for which Aviva can 
charge an excess.  
 
I note Mr X s reference to other damage, namely that the worktop had a hole cut in it and the 
door was buckled. But this damage wasnt featured on the list compiled by Avivas claim 
handler when he met the propertys managing agent at the start of the claim in June 2021.  
Aviva considered its liability for the li sted items and set out its view in respect of each in its 
final response of 26 July 2021. As such Aviva hasnt considered its liability for the worktop or 
buckled door. If Mr X  wants it to do so, he should contact it.  
 
I note neither party has objected to anything I said about lost rent. And I note Mr X  has 
completed work at the property and re -let it. Aviva can then, if Mr X  wants it to and bearing in 
mind both my comments about this and the policy wording, progress the claim for lost rent.  
 
I see Mr X  wants me to award him the cost a contractor would have charged to complete the 
work. That is not something I can fairly and reasonably do as he did not pay a contractor to 
do the works. Mr X  will have to submit his cost details and any receipts to Aviva so it  can 
progress the claims for the different aspects of damage subject of this complaint and 
decision. If Mr X  thinks it should pay him for his time spent doing the work, he can ask it to 
do so and it can consider that.  
 
I note Mr X  would, in addition to the  £500 I have awarded him for distress and 
inconvenience, like me to award him £700 a days for the time he has spent pursuing this 
claim and complaint. But an award like that would be out of line with this services approach 
and, therefore, unfair and unrea sonable. Im satisfied that £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Ive found Aviva caused Mr X , is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.  Page 6 of 7  Putting things right  
 
I require Aviva to;  
 
 Settle Mr X s claim for damage caused by malicious persons, in respect of the following 
areas/items, subject to one policy excess amount being  paid/applied;  
 the kitchen  wall and extractor units removed and  dismantled;  
 the sitting room  boxing in removed , writing on the wall, hole in plasterboard, smoke 
alarm hanging from  ceiling;  
 the back garden  the gate has been barred and nailed in place, the shed has been 
destroyed, debris needs  removing.  
 
 Settle Mr X s claim for damage/loss caused by theft, in resp ect of the following 
areas/items, subject to one policy excess amount being  paid/applied;  
 missing  pavers;  
 window  keys;  
 patio door  locks;  
 bedroom  carpet.  
 
 Settle Mr X s claim for damage caused to the front door handle, lock mechanism and 
frame, by emergency services, subject to Mr X  providing proof of entry and one policy 
excess amount being  paid/applied.  
 
 Settle Mr X s claim for damage to landscaped gardens , in respect of the following 
areas/items, subject to one policy excess amount being  paid/applied;  
 hole in the back  garden;  
 ruts in the front  garden.  
 
 Settle Mr X s claim for lost rent in line with the policy terms and conditions, bearing in 
mind my findin gs that some, but not all, of the damage at the property meant it could not 
be lived  in. 
 
 Pay Mr X  £500 compensation for  upset.  
 
 Where any amount is settled in cash with Mr X , either for damage or lost rent, apply 
interest* on the amount being paid to Mr X  from the date he either incurred that cost, or 
in the case of rent, the date he should have received the payment but didnt. Interest will 
have to be applied until Aviva makes the settlement to Mr X . 
 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr X  a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.  
 
My final decision  
 
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.  Page 7 of 7 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X  and Mrs X  to 
accept or reject my decis ion before 22 September 2022.  
Fiona Robinson  
Ombudsman  