DRN-3862219
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline Motor Finance Limited. 
What happened
On 14 January 2022 Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement with Startline for a used car. 
The car was around six and a half years old and had travelled approximately 75,515 miles. 
The cash price was £6,999.
Mr B has told us that the oil sump cover fell off on the way home on the day he got the car. 
He says he discovered the coolant tank was completely empty, and that he couldnt get a 
clear indication of the oil level on the dipstick. He says he contacted the dealer, who agreed 
to book it in for repair. 
Mr B says an alarm and oil warning light came on a few days later, after hed only travelled 
around 30 miles in the car. Hes told us that once this warning had come on, it came on 
again every few minutes until the engine was switched off. He says he contacted the dealer 
again to tell them about this, expecting it to be fixed at the same time as the other issues 
hed complained about.
Mr B has told us that the car went in for repair on 10 February 2022, as agreed, but the issue 
with the oil warning wasnt resolved. He says it continued to come on intermittently after the 
car had been driven for about an hour or 40 miles. 
Mr B says that on 14 May 2022, whilst driving on a dual carriageway, the car suddenly 
revved up to 7,000 rpm with a large amount of black smoke coming out of the exhaust. He 
says he had to switch the ignition off to stop it. Hes told us that this was quite a scary 
experience, as his partner and young child were in the car with him at the time. He says he 
hasnt driven the car since then because he doesnt feel its safe. 
Mr B made a complaint to Startline, who arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the 
car on 7 July 2022. The engineers report recorded the car to have travelled around 80,042 
miles at that time. It concluded:
all the evidence presented does indicate that the vehicle is suffering an intermittent issue 
with the oil pressure warning light, exactly when this occurred is impossible to say.
investigation and rectification is required imminently to prevent the possibility of 
consequential engine damage.
Startline didnt provide a final response to Mr Bs complaint, so one of our investigators 
looked into what had happened.
Our investigator didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr B. As the dealer had already had an opportunity to repair the car, the investigator thought 
it was fair that Mr B should now be able to reject it. So, he said Startline should end the 
agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr B.
The investigator was satisfied that Mr B had use of the car until 14 May 2022, so he thought 
it was fair that he should pay for that. But he said Mr B should receive a refund of the 
monthly rentals hed paid from that point onwards.
The investigator thought Startline should reimburse Mr B for the diagnostic report hed 
obtained and that they should pay him £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the car being of unsatisfactory quality. He also thought Startline 
should remove any adverse information that had been recorded on Mr Bs credit file about 
the agreement. 
Mr B accepted our investigators view. Startline didnt respond, so the matter has come to 
me for a final decision. 
After reviewing all the information provided, I wrote to both parties setting out my initial 
thoughts on the case. I said I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be 
upheld - and that I also agreed with most of his recommendations as to what Startline should 
do to put things right for Mr B. 
But I said I thought the amount Startline should pay for the distress and inconvenience 
caused should be increased to £500, due to information Mr B had shared with us about his 
personal circumstances. I asked both parties to send me any further information or 
comments theyd like me to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr B responded, saying he had nothing further to add. I received no further comments or 
information from Startline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement, so this service can consider complaints 
relating to it. Under this type of agreement, Startline is also the supplier of the car and is 
therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. It explains that things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was around six and a half years old when it was 
supplied to Mr B. It cost £6,999, which is significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was 
new. Although I havent seen any supporting evidence to confirm the cars mileage at that 
time, it isnt disputed that it had covered around 75,500 miles. I dont think a buyer would expect this car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I do think theyd still expect it 
to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be able to 
drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Im satisfied that theres now a fault with the car, because the independent engineers report 
says all the evidence presented does indicate that the vehicle is suffering an intermittent 
issue with the oil pressure warning light.
Mr B has told us that, on the last occasion the car was driven, the engine revved up to 
around 7,000 rpm whilst emitting lots of black smoke, and the only way he could stop it was 
by switching off the ignition. Also, the independent engineers report concludes investigation 
and rectification is required imminently to prevent the possibility of consequential engine 
damage. So Im satisfied that this was a significant fault.
For these reasons, I dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality at the time of 
the independent engineers inspection. The point for me to decide is whether it was of 
satisfactory quality when Startline supplied it to Mr B in January 2022. 
I note the independent engineers conclusions state:
If it is accepted that Mr B reported the issues shortly after the date of purchase, the sales 
agent should be responsible for the investigation and rectification costs on the grounds of 
durability.
So Ive considered what the evidence shows about when Mr B first reported this issue. 
Mr B has shown us a screenshot of a conversation he had with the dealer by text, which Ive 
reviewed. The dealer sent Mr B a text message on 7 February 2022, confirming the car was 
booked in later that week. Mr B replied, saying hed send a video of the oil light using an 
instant messaging app. The dealer responded saying: Thats ok we will just do it anyway.
Mr B has also provided a screenshot which confirms a video clip of the cars dashboard was 
sent to the dealer using the instant messaging app, as promised. Hes provided a copy of 
that video clip, which shows an alarm and warning light coming on whilst the car was being 
driven. Although I havent seen anything to confirm the date this video was made, I could 
clearly see the odometer showed 76,116 miles. So, Im satisfied that the car had only 
covered around 600 miles since it was supplied to Mr B.
Having reviewed this evidence, Im satisfied that Mr B told the dealer about the oil pressure 
warning problem within the first four weeks and 600 miles use of the car. Given how quickly 
this came to light, I find it most likely that the issue causing the oil pressure warning was 
already present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr B. So, I dont consider the 
car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Putting things right
Ive seen evidence showing Mr B took the car back to the dealer for repair on 10 February 
2022. After that repair, I think he was entitled to expect the car to be of satisfactory quality. 
As the independent engineers report confirms more investigation and repair work is 
required, I think Mr B should now be given his final right to reject the car. This means the 
agreement should come to an end, and Startline should arrange for the car to be collected at 
no cost to Mr B.I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B wasnt able to make full use of the car until the 
incident on 14 May 2022. I think its fair that he should pay Startline for the four months use 
hes had. But Mr B told us that he hasnt used the car at all since that incident. So I think it 
would be fair for Startline to refund any payments he made after this date. If Startline have 
recorded any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file about payments that would have fallen 
due after 14 May 2022, then it should be removed. 
Ive seen evidence showing Mr B paid £48 for a diagnostic report on the car, in support of his 
complaint to Startline. I think they should reimburse him for this.  
I think the incident on the dual carriageway would have been frightening and stressful. I also 
note that Mr B has been put to the inconvenience of having to make arrangements to get a 
diagnostic report on the car, as well as making alternative travel arrangements. 
Mr B has told us that he suffers with anxiety, and that he has medication to help him sleep. 
He says the problems with the car caused him to wake up during the night, having panic 
attacks. Hes also told us that his father sadly passed away during this period, and that the 
problems with the car added to his distress. Hes provided evidence showing he had to hire 
a car to travel to his fathers funeral. 
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Bs loss. I can appreciate that the problems with the car 
would have added to his anxiety. Ive seen a copy of an email Mr B sent Startline on 21 June 
2022, in which he told them about these circumstances and the tremendous amount of 
stress he was experiencing. But I note that Startline didnt provide a final response to his 
complaint.
Having thought about all of this, I think Startline should pay Mr B £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused due to the problems with the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to:
End the agreement, with no requirement for Mr B to make any repayments that would 
otherwise have become due after 14 May 2022.
Make arrangements for the car to be collected, at no cost to Mr B.
Refund any monthly payments Mr B has made for the period since 14 May 2022.
Reimburse Mr B £48 for the diagnostic report he obtained on 23 May 2022. 
Pay interest on the above amounts, calculated from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file about this agreement 
since 14 May 2022.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman