DRN-2711846
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a theft claim under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T made a claim for theft in January 2019 after a break-in at her property while no-one 
was at home. Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
Mrs T told the loss adjuster her husband had returned to the property and found the rear 
patio door was wide open. It appeared that burglars had entered and left via the patio door.
 
In June 2019 Fairmead declined the claim. It said there was no damage to the lock on the 
patio door. It also said there were no signs of forced or violent entry to the property. It 
thought that meant the patio door hadnt been locked and so Mrs T was in breach of the 
security condition in her property. 
In order to reconsider the claim Fairmead required evidence that the patio door had been 
damaged during the burglary and repaired.
Mrs T complained to Fairmead. She thought the lock had been picked or tampered with. 
Fairmead didnt change its decision about the claim. But it said that if Mrs T could provide 
further evidence in support of her claim, it would consider it. In July 2019 it offered her £250 
for the delay in reaching a decision and explained to Mrs T that she could refer her 
complaint to this service within six months if she still wasnt happy.
In August 2019 Mrs T sent Fairmead a report from her locksmith, confirming that the patio 
door lock had been picked. Fairmead considered the report but continued to decline the 
claim.
Mrs T brought her complaint to this service in May 2020. Because Mrs T hadnt brought her 
complaint to us within six months of Fairmeads final decision letter, our investigator said he 
couldnt look at how Fairmead had handled the claim up to that point. But he could 
investigate whether Fairmead had acted fairly in declining the claim because it had 
reconsidered the decision to decline the claim after issuing its final decision letter. He didnt 
think Fairmead had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
As Mrs T didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules that apply to this service set out strict deadlines that have to be considered and 
applied in respect of every case we see. The relevant deadline here is that for us to consider 
a complaint it must be made within six months of the date of the final response letter issued 
by the financial business. Mrs Ts complaint was brought to us more than six months after 
Fairmeads final response.
The rules are clear - if a complaint is made later, we cant consider it unless the business 
agrees to allow us to do so. Fairmead hasnt agreed to that here.
The rules also allow us to look at complaints brought to us more than six months after the 
final response if the failure to make the complaint within the deadline resulted from 
exceptional circumstances. The rules give an example of exceptional circumstances as 
where the complainant has been or is incapacitated. I havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mrs T meets the high bar indicated by the example given in the rules.
So, unfortunately for Mrs T, there are no grounds which would allow this service to consider 
the merits of her complaint about the way Fairmead handled her claim. But for the reason 
explained by our investigator I am able to look at whether Fairmead acted fairly in declining 
the claim because it thought Mrs T had been in breach of the security condition in the policy.
Its often the case that an insurance policy may impose certain conditions on a policyholder. 
In particular security conditions may require a policyholder to have a certain type of lock 
fitted to doors and windows. In this case the relevant condition was that external doors 
needed to be secured by a lock of a certain standard or a multi-point locking system with a 
minimum of three locking points. There is nothing unusual about such a condition and 
nothing to suggest that Mrs T was unaware of the condition in this case. The patio door has 
a multi-point locking system.
If a policyholder is in breach of the condition and that breach is material to the loss, the 
insurer may decline the claim. So the question for me to consider is whether I agree with 
Fairmead that Mrs T or her family probably breached the security condition by leaving the 
patio door unlocked.
Ive looked at the police report of the burglary. It refers to the burglars entering through the 
patio doors. It doesnt mention the use of force or violence or refer to the lock being picked.
Police officers usually check the obvious entry points in a property and, with a trained eye, 
can spot any obvious signs of force. The fact they didnt find any sign of forcible entry which 
often leaves some kind of damage behind leads me to think the loss adjusters view  that 
there was no forced entry to the property  was most likely correct. Its true that there could 
have been something that went unnoticed, but I dont think its most likely.
Ive also taken into consideration a report from Mrs Ts locksmith after he visited the property 
several months after the burglary. He said the patio door had been picked without any 
damage to the door or lock. When Fairmeads loss adjuster queried the basis on which hed 
reached this conclusion, the locksmith said the lock must have been picked since there was 
no damage to the door and no key had been used. Since it appears the locksmith was 
basing his opinion on the statement to him by Mrs T that the patio door had been locked, I 
dont find this particularly persuasive evidence.
While I accept the lock might have been picked, my job is to assess the situation on the 
basis of whats most likely the case. If no force was used to gain entry then I think the most 
likely possibility is that a door or window was left unlocked. Since that breach of the security 
condition was material to the theft, I cant fairly and reasonably say that Fairmead has done 
anything wrong in declining the claim as Im satisfied that the evidence available suggests 
the security condition was most likely not complied with.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman