DRN-1602988
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
approved his loan application that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr D says he took out the Tesco loan on 1 October 2016 but at the same time already had a 
£40,000 loan with a different business. He says Tesco didn't check that other loan and didn't 
carry out an appropriate credit check as he had other debts. Mr D says although he was 
earning over £28,000 a year, he had unexpected bills and life events that meant the loan 
was unaffordable. Mr D also says he had reached his credit limit on his credit card account 
and that Tesco didn't check some of his outgoings such as council tax payment that he left 
blank on the loan application form.
Tesco doesn't accept making a mistake and says it carried out appropriate credit checks as 
well as checking Mr D's income and expenditure. It says Mr D had over £500 a month 
available, and says it was in May 2017 that Mr D experienced difficulties repaying the loan.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't think Tesco had made a mistake 
or acted unfairly. The investigator thought Tesco had carried out appropriate checks and that 
it fairly concluded the loan was affordable. The investigator thought it likely the other loan 
that was taken out in August 2016 hadn't been updated on Mr D's credit file when 
Tesco carried out its checks. But in any event thought the Tesco loan had been used to 
repay the other loan. And that Mr D could also have told Tesco about it.
Mr D doesn't accept that view and says in summary Tesco didn't check his application for 
information he left out and disputes how much money he had left over every month after his 
expenditure. He says the other loan would have been on his credit file or at least details of 
the application and overall says the loan should not have been approved at the same time 
as the other loan.
Mr D would like Tesco to waive the interest on the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr D will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked at Tesco's records and the information it has given me about the loan for 
£30,000 which was made in early September 2016. I'm satisfied that at the time Mr D was 
working and that Tesco carried out appropriate and reasonable credit checks on the 
application. I'm also satisfied that the loan appeared affordable based on Mr D's income and 
expenditure, and that Tesco has provided us with those figures which I think provides evidence that it looked carefully at the application.
I appreciate Mr D says he had reached the credit limit on his credit card account. But I have 
looked at Mr D's credit file and I don't think that was the case. I think at the time, Mr D had a 
credit card balance of about half his credit limit. I have also looked at the credit file in 
detail and I don't think there was any adverse information recorded on it at the time. And I 
can see that Mr D had made appropriate payments on previous loans and a mortgage.
I accept that Mr D did have an existing loan in place when he took out the Tesco loan. I can 
also see that loan was taken out in August 2016 and I agree with the investigator that I think 
it likely Mr D's credit file hadn't been updated at the time of the Tesco loan application. So I 
don't think Tesco made a mistake by not being aware of the loan and I would have expected 
Mr D to have told Tesco about all of his expenditure as he was obliged to do. I don't think it 
matters if Mr D's credit file had details of an application for the first loan as Tesco would not 
have known if that loan had been approved.
In any event I don't think it matters that Mr D had this other loan as he has told us that he 
used the Tesco loan to repay the previous loan. And it appears the Tesco loan repayment 
was less than the previous loan repayment. So I don't think Mr D did have two loans in place 
or was responsible for two monthly repayments, and I don't think Tesco could have known 
about it without Mr D making it clear. I think it likely that if Mr D had told Tesco about the first 
loan, it's still likely the loan would have been approved if its purpose was for debt 
consolidation at a lower monthly repayment.
I can see that Mr D made appropriate monthly repayments until mid 2017. Having looked at 
Mr D's credit file I think his financial problems started or got worse at that stage. So I think 
that provides evidence that the loan was affordable at the time it was taken out. But the 
position changed at some point in 2017 which I can't fairly hold Tesco responsible for or that 
it could have known that would happen. Mr D hasn't told me what took place at that time but 
I can see that he says he was faced with unexpected life events and large bills. So I think it 
likely it was those events that led to the financial difficulties Mr D experienced and not the 
loan repayments.
Overall I'm satisfied Tesco appropriately and reasonably checked Mr D's loan application 
and that the lending was affordable. In those circumstances I don't find the lending 
irresponsible, and so I can't fairly order Tesco to remove the interest from the loan as Mr D 
would like. I don't think it matters, as Mr D says, that some of the expenditure boxes were 
left blank and think it's up to Tesco to decide on its lending criteria. I would have also have 
expected Mr D to have provided accurate information but in any event I don't think Mr D's 
council tax payment would have affected the loan application. It is not clear why Mr D could 
not afford the loan as I think he could at the start. And I think on balance it may be the case 
that there was additional spending that Tesco was not or could not be aware of.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman