DRN-3518370
The complaint
Mr U complains about John Lewis Financial Services Limiteds (John Lewis FS) refusal to 
give him the refund he has requested.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr U was looking for a supplier to supply and fit a new door for his home. 
According to Mr U he invited a supplier who I will call W to quote for the work. Mr U 
suggests he initially wanted to go ahead with the work with W, so he signed a contract with it 
on 21 October 2020.  Thereafter, Mr U paid W a deposit using his credit card supplied by 
John Lewis FS.
Subsequently Mr U wanted to cancel the order, it appears this was because he had found a 
supplier who could supply the goods and do the installation work more quickly and cheaply. 
Mr U asked for his deposit back. Mr U considers he is entitled to the return of his deposit on 
the basis that W had taken the deposit payment when it was not entitled to. Specifically, Mr 
U suggests W took the deposit without his authorisation. He suggests this was a breach of 
contract on Ws part. W would not return his deposit, so Mr U complained to John Lewis FS.
John Lewis FS looked at two routes to recover Mr Us deposit. The first route was via a 
process known as chargeback which it indicated it could not proceed with. The second route 
was via a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75), but 
ultimately it concluded it had no proper basis on which it could meet his claim.
Dissatisfied, Mr U complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Us complaint. She did not recommend upholding it.
John Lewis FS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr U did not. In short, Mr U 
repeated his stance that the taking of the deposit had been unauthorised and a breach of 
contract. Plus, he gave further information about why in his opinion he had not authorised W 
to take the deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr U seeks to rely on the rights he believes he has under Section 75 against John Lewis FS. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Us complaint, Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr U pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. This service is an informal alternative to the courts.
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr U has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier, he can also bring a like claim against John Lewis FS.
When this dispute first started it appears that Mr U was relying on a number of grounds to 
seek the return of the deposit, for instance he questioned whether the document W said was 
the order confirmation was actually the order confirmation. He also asked W to prove that it 
had posted the order confirmation to him which he suggested he never received. But it 
seems that now Mr U bases his complaint on a very limited issue as set out in his complaint 
form, namely:
The merchant took an unauthorised payment from my credit card, in breach of their own 
terms and conditions. The merchant's terms and conditions clearly state that the deposit 
payment becomes due when I receive their order confirmation. However, they
took the payment from my card before they even issue the order confirmation.
Therefore, I shall only look at this issue. 
In essence Mr U is suggesting that W did not act in accordance with the contract in relation 
to when it took the deposit and therefore, he is entitled to get this back. So first Ill look at 
what the contract says about the deposit.
What the contract says about the deposit
Mr U suggests that W took his deposit without his authorisation and he indicates this in turn 
is a breach of contract. He says this because the terms and conditions say, amongst other 
things, 
The Price shall be paid as follows:
a deposit of 25% of the Price payable upon receipt of our Order Confirmation;
The order confirmation was sent to Mr U on 22 October 2020. Initially, Mr U indicated that 
the reason he knew that the deposit had been taken before the order confirmation was sent 
to him was because the order confirmation says:
 We write to thank you for your valued order and to confirm receipt of your deposit.  
I can see why on that basis his position is that the deposit was taken before it should have 
been. 
However, W suggested this was not the whole story. Rather W indicated it had the following 
email exchange with Mr U on 22 October 2022. 
W wrote:
Here is your contract if you can sign it and send it back to me. Payment of the deposit can 
be made on a credit card or via BACs by using the details below.Mr U responded:
Thanks, signed attached. Please call me to take credit card payment of deposit.
Mr U has not said that this email exchange did not happen or is inaccurate. 
From the information I have seen after this email exchange W did call Mr U so he could pay 
the deposit by credit card. I have listened to a recording of the call. Mr U pays the deposit 
over the phone and asks W to quote for more work. What Mr U does not do is object to 
being asked to pay the deposit at that point or insist that he will only pay the deposit on the 
receipt of the order confirmation.
However, Mr U suggests when he agreed to pay the deposit on the phone and in the email it 
was with a caveat. Specifically, he says:
So, when I say call me to take payment, it is clearly implicit that I mean "in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the contract that bind our agreement".
Nowhere in my email does it say WHEN they should call me. It also doesn't say "I agree that 
you can take the deposit payment before sending me order confirmation".
However, I find Mr Us arguments mostly unpersuasive. As I have already said the contract 
does stipulate that the deposit was payable upon the receipt of the order confirmation. 
However, nothing in the email exchange or the phone call suggests to me this was a sticking 
point for Mr U at the time. Rather it appears that he knew that W was taking his payment, he 
accepted this approach and agreed to be bound by it. In other words, nothing about this 
exchange makes me think the payment was not authorised by Mr U. Albeit that he may have 
regretted his decision afterwards when he decided he wanted to cancel the contract. But that 
is not the same as saying the payment was not authorised.
In any event Mr U did not contract solely on the basis of that one clause in the contract. I 
think I therefore have to look at the entirety of the contract. Because as a starting point that 
was the basis on which the parties agreed to contract.
Why Mr U was bound to pay the deposit and why I think any breach did not cause his loss
It is principle of contract law that consideration does not have to have passed for a contract 
to be binding. Meaning here just because Mr U did not have to pay the deposit until he 
received the order confirmation it does not mean he was not bound by the contract. Rather, 
in the circumstances, regardless of when W took the deposit Mr U was bound by the 
contract when it came into being to pay the deposit. So, it is not the case that even if the 
contract had been completed and then Mr U changed his mind but W had not taken the 
deposit yet he could have walked away from the contract without any obligation to pay the 
deposit.  So, whether W took the deposit too early of not is not really going to help Mr U 
here.
Further, it seems to me what has caused Mr U to lose his deposit is not that W took the 
deposit before Mr U received the order confirmation, but that Mr U changed his mind about 
the contract after he was bound by it. In those circumstances he was always going to have 
to pay W the deposit under the contract as far as I can see. That is because there was no 
provision to allow Mr U to end the contract in these circumstances. And in any event, I could 
not fairly or reasonably ask John Lewis FS to pay damages for a breach when that breach 
did not lead to the loss Mr U claims to have made.
chargeback
Chargeback is a process which in certain circumstances allows customers to ask their bank 
for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with goods or services that they have 
paid for. There is no automatic right to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice for 
a financial business to consider carrying out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this 
provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be successful. The chargeback rules are not set by John Lewis FS. Rather they are set by the chargeback 
scheme operator. A chargeback can only succeed to the extent that there is a valid 
chargeback reason. And based on the information I have seen there was no valid 
chargeback reason under the relevant rules. It follows that I find it unlikely that any 
chargeback attempt would have been successful. 
For all of these reasons, I dont agree I have any fair or reasonable grounds for requiring 
John Lewis FS to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman