DRN-3493330
The complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt treat him fairly when he 
had difficulties making repayments to his credit card account.
What happened
The investigator set out the background to this complaint in detail, so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have 
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching 
a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Mr M had a credit card account with Virgin Money. In brief, Mr M could borrow against the 
account limit and in return Virgin Money would charge interest and receive at least a 
minimum repayment each month. Mr M borrowed about £20,000 against the account limit.
In late 2020 Mr M told Virgin Money he had mental health concerns and was out of work. 
Virgin Money agreed to waive interest and accept reduced repayments. Im satisfied Virgin 
Money provided Mr M with satisfactory support here as its actions allowed Mr M to focus on 
other bills without his debt with Virgin Money increasing.
Things didnt go so well going forward though. Mr M received letters about arrears which 
prompted him to make contact and he wasnt always given helpful explanations around what 
would happen to the account, including whether it would ultimately default. 
In the latter half of 2021 and early 2022 there was a great deal of contact between Mr M and 
Virgin Money. Having reviewed this contact between the parties holistically, Im satisfied 
Virgin Money tried to be supportive, such as by clarifying where the account stood, 
apologising for things Mr M felt hed been let down on and paying compensation. But despite 
good intentions, Virgin Money made some further mistakes, most notably when it told Mr M 
the account wouldnt default until his complaint was resolved but then later sent a default 
notice because of an administrative error.
Mr M has been understandably frustrated by Virgin Moneys actions, and given his mental 
health, I can understand why the impact of these mistakes would have had a greater impact 
on him than might have been the case for others. But Mr M is holding Virgin Money solely 
responsible for some very serious things.
Mr M says Virgin Moneys administration of his account and the way it communicated with 
him exacerbated his mental health illness and led to him making several attempts to take his 
own life. He says this led to him being unable to start work and therefore caused him 
significant financial loss. Im saddened to hear Mr M felt the way he did, and I accept Virgin 
Moneys mistakes wouldnt have helped matters. 
An unsecured credit card debt where the lender isnt robustly pursuing a borrower for 
repayment wouldnt ordinarily, in and of itself, have the impact Mr M says it had on him. 
Virgin Moneys mistakes were, relatively speaking, minor and of a customer 
service/administrative nature. And Mr M has disputes with other financial services providers 
and appears to have made similar complaints.  
Im not persuaded I can fairly conclude Virgin Moneys actions - on their own - had the 
impact Mr M says they had, or that if I were to conclude they did, said impact would have 
been reasonably foreseeable to Virgin Money such that it could be held accountable. It 
follows I cant fairly require Virgin Money to compensate Mr M for his alleged loss of 
earnings (or any other costs for that matter, such as medical costs) stemming from his health 
concerns or his attempts to take his own life. 
Mr M has also asked me to require Virgin Money to compensate him for some other things. 
He says he incurred £6,000 costs for legal expenses when he had concerns about the 
account defaulting. Its unclear to me what his legal assistance achieved, but regardless, I 
havent been provided with enough evidence to persuade me that was a necessary and 
proportionate step to take in light of Mr Ms wider circumstances and that the complaint was 
being considered by our service. It follows I cant fairly require Virgin Money to pay these 
costs. Mr M says he broke his phone and needed to pay for a replacement which cost £449. 
While Im sorry to hear he broke his phone, I dont find Virgin Money can fairly be held 
responsible for it. 
Now, Im not saying Virgin Money didnt make mistakes for which it should put things right. 
However, in late 2021 Virgin Money reviewed matters and made an offer, which, when 
combined with previous offers, meant in total it would do the following:
- Write off Mr Ms credit card account balance of £19,501.96;
- Pay him £700 compensation; and
- Reimburse £1,200 in medical fees.
Considering what Ive set out above, Im satisfied the offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint as it is significantly more than I would have required of 
Virgin Money had the offer not been made. 
Im aware Mr M has some concerns around how the account will show on his credit file. My 
understanding is its showing as settled and arrears are showing in the months leading up to 
the account closure. Mr M says he could have avoided arrears from April 2021 onwards by 
borrowing money to pay off his balance, if hed been correctly advised by Virgin Money. 
I dont accept this was the case. Its clear Mr M is keen to avoid adverse information being 
recorded on his credit file and he knew not making contractual repayments would result in 
arrears being recorded. So it stands to reason if Mr M could, with support, have repaid his 
balance to avoid arrears being reported, he would have. Ultimately Mr M didnt make his 
contractual repayments in the months leading up to the account closure. Im therefore not 
going to require Virgin Money to record something different. 
Mr M may be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this final
decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to do as its 
offered, if it hasnt ready done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman