DRN-2675206
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B are a partnership trading as B. They complain that American International 
Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under their business 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B hold a business protection insurance policy with AIG. They made a claim on 
that policy to cover their losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr B 
and Mrs B didnt agree. They said they thought the wording of the policy, specifically the 
wording for Notifiable Diseases, meant their claim should be covered.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to AIG but it explained that, although their policy would provide 
cover in the event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr B and Mrs B werent happy with its response so brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said that, while he sympathises with Mr B and Mrs Bs situation, he didnt think there was 
cover available under the policy. Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr B and Mrs Bs business, but I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr B and Mrs B are looking to claim on their business protection insurance policy. These 
types of policies offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether AIG acted fairly in declining Mr B and Mrs Bs claim, the starting 
point is to consider the specific policy they took out. 
Having reviewed Mr B and Mrs Bs policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide 
cover for the closure of their business as a result of the Governments response to the 
national pandemic. However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy 
which appear most relevant provide cover.
Mr B and Mrs Bs policy included an extension for Notifiable Diseases. The extension 
wording was amended by an endorsement which states that it would provide cover for 
business interruption as a result of an outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the 
Premises or which is attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring 
within a twenty five miles of the Premises, which by reason of the abnormal number of cases 
causes prospective guests to refrain from making bookings for accommodation, or gives 
legal grounds for guests to cancel bookings for accommodation already made
The policy provides a definition for Notifiable Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Mr B and Mrs Bs policy sets out a specific list of 
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is 
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Mr B and Mrs Bs policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Denial of 
Access. However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the 
business itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a 
Government-imposed act. Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent 
seen anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these 
sections cover Mr B and Mrs Bs claim.
So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had 
on Mr B and Mrs B, having taken all of this into account and having considered the 
remaining terms of the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in declining their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman