DRN-3470818
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain about the service provided by Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) 
whilst trying to open and account during the transfer of their ISA from a third-party to HSDL. 
Mr P say theyve suffered financial loss.  
What happened
On 31 December 2019 Mr P wrote to HSDL asking to transfer his ISA from a third-party to 
HSDL. He wanted the application form to be posted to him as he didnt want to use the 
online services. I understand HSDL received this letter on 8 January 2020. 
HSDL says on 15 January 2020, it wrote to Mr P providing instructions on how to register for 
an account online and how to initiate a transfer.  
On 23 January 2020, Mr P called HSDL  although HSDL says an agent called Mr P  in any 
event it offered to do a manual registration over the phone, but Mr P wanted to see a hard 
copy of the terms and conditions before going ahead. HSDL agreed to send the 
documentation in the post, but it was never received by Mr P.  
On 12 June 2020, HDSL received a letter from Mr P dated 8 June 2020, with the subject title 
potential complaint and so was forwarded to HSDLs complaints department. 
On 24 June 2020, Mr P was sent an incorrectly dated letter (dated 15 January 2020) re-
confirming instructions on how to register online, and a brief breakdown of online charges 
and dealing commission.   
On 2 July 2020, HSDL says it received Mr Ps letter detailing the previous issues. HSDL 
responded on 6 July detailing how they could register an account by calling the contact 
centre or by applying online in some branches. 
Despite telling the business that he didnt want to use its online services, Mr P was still 
directed to it. 
The business partially upheld the complaint on the basis its service didnt meet expectations 
and offered Mrs and Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It 
said it hasnt seen evidence that Mr Ps request for the terms and conditions, order handling 
policy and costs and charges booklet was actioned. I note a copy of the requested 
documentation was also sent. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Theres no evidence that Mrs and Mr P were advised to transfer their ISA to HSDL 
and invest in preference shares. HSDL has confirmed that even if they were its 
customers  which they werent  it wouldnt have offered advice, as its an execution 
only service. 
HSDL accepts that the service Mrs and Mr P received fell below standard. 
oMr P repeatedly made clear that he didnt want to use HSDLs online service, 
and HSDL kept referring him to it.
oMr P asked for hard copies of the terms and conditions and these were never 
supplied.   
oThere was a delay of several months, before HSDL detailed how to register 
for an account via the telephone or in branch.   
The £100 compensation offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mrs and Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Theres been much correspondence between Mrs and Mr P and our investigator, 
but, in summary, they said:
The view is cursory and the conclusion illogical. 
The investigator has failed to deal with the deception deeply embedded in this case. 
She has omitted historic points of relevance in this case and hasnt referred to the 
inefficiency of our service. 
He hasnt claimed that he was advised to invest in the preference shares resulting in 
financial loss. 
Hes been trading since 2001 and knows much about it. HSDL knew in January 
2020, that hes always been an execution only client. 
The view contained specific inaccuracies undermining its thrust. The few months 
referred to by the investigator, was in fact six months and after he received the final 
response letter. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary she said she was sorry that Mrs and Mr P didnt agree but an ombudsman 
would consider all the points afresh. Despite what Mr P said about the previous complaint 
and its purported relevance to the current complaint, the onus was still on Mr P to provide 
any evidence he wanted us to consider and its not for us to cross reference cases. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs and Mr P say, I think the 
offer of redress is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Im not persuaded that HSDL has done anything wrong in the circumstances, such that it 
should offer any compensation, over the £100 already offered.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs and Mr 
Ps, strength of feeling about this matter. Im sorry to hear about Mrs Ps deteriorating health. 
I appreciate it must be a difficult time for Mr P as her sole carer. 
Mr Ps provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope that he and Mrs P wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. Im not going to list all of the correspondence provided by them, its not 
necessary for me to do so in order to reach a decision in this case. 
The purpose of my decision also isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mrs and Mr P, and HSDL, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note Mrs and Mr P maintain that this complaint arose out of our services failure to deal with 
Mr Ps previous complaint against the transferor which an ombudsman found was out of 
jurisdiction. Regardless of how Mr P thinks this complaint arose, in this instance Im only 
considering the complaint against HSDL. 
I also note Mr Ps view regarding the previous complaint and its relevance, particularly in 
relation to what he feels shouldve been considered as the date of the final response letter  
4 March 2019 and not 10 April 2018  but thats not the subject of this complaint.  
I note Mrs and Mr P are also unhappy about the service they received from us and are 
considering making/have made a service complaint. Im aware Mr P is unhappy about 
correspondence not being dealt with properly, staff working from home and potential delays. 
Hes very concerned that hes being failed again by our service, in the same way that he was 
purportedly failed by the previous ombudsman and investigator. But thats not the point of 
my decision, Im not here to re-consider the previous complaint, or the service Mrs and Mr P 
received from our service both of which are separate matters  Im only here to consider the 
complaint against HSDL.  
I appreciate Mr P feels that his case wasnt a complaint until HSDL treated his 
correspondence as such, but given the nature and tone of his correspondence  culminating 
in the letter dated 8 June 2020 titled potential complaint  Im unable to say that HSDL has 
done anything wrong by treating Mr Ps letter as a complaint. I also dont think it did anything 
wrong by continuing to respond to his letters. 
On the face of the evidence, it seems Mrs and Mr P chose to transfer their holdings to HSDL 
without advice. In other words, I cant safely say that they were advised by HSDL to take 
this course of action. Im aware Mr P maintains HSDL knew he was an execution only client 
since January 2020. Furthermore, he wasnt advised to invest in the preference shares 
(resulting in financial loss); hes been trading since 2001; knows much about it and that 
HSDL knew in January 2020 that hes always been an execution only client. 
The above explains why Ive seen no evidence from the point of transfer that advice was 
either sought, or given, regarding the suitability of the transfer by HSDL. Ive also not seen a 
suitability/recommendation letter or fact find that suggests advice was given. 
Im aware that Mr P initiated contact with HSDL before seeing the terms and conditions, 
which he then requested during a phone call dated 23 January 2020 its not material who 
initiated that contact, but it was probably Mr P. I note during that call HSDL tried to set up an 
account for him so that he could initiate the transfer request but Mr P didnt want to go ahead 
without seeing key policy documentation and terms and conditions. In the circumstances, 
and on balance, Im unable to blame the business for Mrs and Mr P note being able to set up 
an account via the telephone  as an alternative to doing it online  within a reasonable time. Im satisfied they chose not to go ahead with this at the time for their own reasons which I 
cant hold the business responsible for. 
I note HSDL has confirmed that Mrs and Mr P werent its customers so it wouldnt have 
offered them advice, and, in any case, it only offered an execution only service so there was 
no chance of them being advised about what they should or shouldnt do.  
Im aware the decision to transfer was as a result of the previous provider deciding to 
terminate its relationship with Mrs and Mr P. Therefore, its likely that they chose to invest of 
their own volition, so, in the circumstances, its not possible for me to look into the 
suitability of their decision. 
I note in a letter dated 12 December 2019, the previous provider said:
Over the past 18 months there has been a great deal of correspondence between us which 
has not resolved your issues. There is little else that we can do for you to assist in your 
investigations.
Upon deliberation we no longer believe the existing business-client relationship to be tenable
between us. 
As such, we are requesting that you engage with another ISA provider. They will provide us 
with the relevant transfer out paperwork. Should we receive the relevant transfer out 
paperwork prior to 30 January 2020 we will waive the transfer out fee.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the onus was on Mrs and Mr P to make sure the ISA 
transfer was suitable for their circumstances, and they were happy with HSDLs facilities. If 
they were unsure or didnt want to use the online facilities  which are generally there to 
simplify and speed up the process  they were entitled to seek alternative ways of opening 
an account, seek financial advice or just go elsewhere. It seems they did seek an alternative 
way to open the account  following the initial attempt to set up on account via the phone  
but matters were delayed because HSDL hadnt actioned their request for the key 
documents and terms and conditions. 
I appreciate Mr P (repeatedly) made clear that he didnt wish to use the online HSDL 
services, including from the very outset when he sent his letter in 2019. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think referring Mr P to the online service was done deliberately to 
cause him and Mrs P distress and inconvenience. Rather I think letters were probably sent 
to him/them in error, probably as a result of an automated system. I note thats why HSDL 
offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service 
which I think is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In any case, it could be argued that it was for Mrs and Mr P to decide whether or not they 
wanted to open an account and continue with HSDL or go elsewhere which is why on 
balance Im not persuaded its responsible for any financial loss they may have suffered. 
Based on what Mr P says, Im aware that the responses from other providers was negative 
and they were attracted by the fees from HSDL, which might explain why they continued with 
HSDL and decided to wait for its documentation before going ahead.  
Im aware it was several months before Mr P was again told how he could register an 
account via the telephone, or by coming into branch. As I mentioned above, this was an 
execution only service, so it wouldve been for them to decide whether or not they wished to 
continue with the service or go elsewhere, and they wouldve known since January 2020 that 
they had the option to set up an account via the telephone. I appreciate Mrs and Mr P will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman