DRN-1587615
 
The complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mrs R applied for a credit card by post in January 1996 and took out a PPI policy at the 
same time.
Mrs R says she took the policy out because she was advised by Barclays over the phone 
that PPI was necessary to get the card. She says she didnt need it because she got 
redundancy and sick pay, had savings and had a partner and family who couldve helped her 
out if necessary.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Rs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs R disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
In the most recent questionnaire Mrs R sent to us about her PPI, she says she was told by 
Barclays over the phone that she had to have PPI to get the card. Barclays hasnt given us 
any evidence of a phone call  and, after so long, I wouldnt expect it to have a call recording 
or notes of the call. And Ive looked back at an earlier questionnaire Mrs R filled in about her 
PPI in which she says the PPI was sold by post and she doesnt mention a phone call with 
Barclays. 
Ive also looked at the credit card application Mrs R completed. Its clear to me from this form 
that this was a postal application. And the form also has very clear options to say yes or 
no to PPI. Mrs Rs form has been ticked to say yes.
So on the information I have, I think its likely Mrs R ticked her application form to say she 
wanted PPI knowing that she didnt have to have it. The information I have from Mrs R about 
the call she says she had with Barclays isnt strong enough or clear enough to make me 
think its likely Barclays told Mrs R she had to have the PPI. And the form itself makes it 
clear she has a choice.Although Mrs R says Barclays advised her to buy the PPI, because this was a postal 
application  and in the absence of clear evidence about a phone call  I dont think its likely 
Barclays gave Mrs R a tailored recommendation to buy the cover. This means it didnt need 
to make sure it was right for her. But Barclays did need to give Mrs R enough information 
about the PPI for her to make that decision herself in an informed way.
Its quite likely Barclays didnt give Mrs R all the clear information it shouldve about some 
features of the PPI  such as its true cost and the things it didnt cover. But I dont think 
having more information about these things is likely to have stopped Mrs R taking it out. I 
say this because, from what Ive seen of the policy terms and what Mrs R says of her 
circumstances at the time:
I think she was eligible for the cover. And she wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the policys exclusions or limitations. So it seems there was nothing to stop Mrs R 
claiming the full policy benefit if shed needed to. Mrs R says she tried to claim on the 
policy later in 1996 when she was made redundant and was told she couldnt. But 
neither she nor Barclays have been able to give us any more information about this  
and on such limited information I cant say that any claim that may have been 
declined meant the original policy was mis-sold.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Mrs R if things got difficult for her. It couldve 
helped with her card repayments for longer than it seems her full sick pay wouldve 
lasted  and it wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay and any redundancy pay she 
got. It would also have meant she didnt need to use her savings to make payments 
on her credit card. And while Im sure Mrs Rs partner and family wouldve helped her 
if they could, this kind of help cant be guaranteed and isnt the same as having an 
insurance policy to fall back on.
So none of this changes my conclusions on Mrs Rs complaint. I dont think shes lost out 
because of anything Barclays may have done wrong so theres nothing it needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman