DRN-4177835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance (Kent) 
charged them for a valuation on a buy to let property, that they wanted to remortgage. But 
they said that no competent valuation was done, and they wanted the fee paid back to them.
What happened
This complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs W, as the mortgage application was in both 
names. But our dealings have been with Mrs W. So Ill mainly refer to her in this decision.
Mrs W said she and Mr W made a mortgage application in March 2022, for a property they 
own and rent out. She said they paid Kent £1,425 for a valuation fee. The valuation was 
carried out, and her broker told her the valuer couldnt value the property. Mrs W said the 
same house had been remortgaged around six months earlier, and a sizeable value was 
placed on the house then. Mrs W said she wasnt told why the house couldnt be valued. 
She wanted back the fee theyd paid, because theyd got nothing for it.
Mrs W said Kent had acknowledged her complaint. It asked for evidence of similar properties
sold around the area to back up a challenge to the valuation. Shed provided this in June
2022, but she told us she didnt get a reply, despite several emails chasing this up.
Kent sent our service a complaint response letter, dated 13 June 2022 and addressed to Mr
and Mrs W. That letter said their property had been given a nil value. But it stressed that the
purpose of the valuation report is just as a basis for lending decisions by Kent.
Kent said its surveyor was professionally qualified, and theyd said the property wasnt
suitable as security for its lending. That was because the surveyor felt that there was poor
demand for properties of this type in the area, which limits its resale potential. Mrs W had
sent details of similar properties currently on the market, but Kent said it needed to see
evidence of sales, preferably within the last six months.
Kent said it wouldnt pay back the fee Mr and Mrs W had paid. It said the fee was to cover
the cost of a valuation, and a valuation had been done. So Mr and Mrs W had paid for a
service and they had received it, although Kent said it appreciated that the outcome wasnt
what they would have wanted.
Mrs W has shown our service that, following this, she emailed Kent with details of properties
that had sold recently in her area. She asked Kent then if this was enough to reopen her
case. She has shown us several emails she sent chasing a response to this, and told us she
never received a reply.
When this case came to us, Kent accepted that further details of comparable properties had
been sent, but it said it was under no obligation to consider further challenges.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Kent doesnt have its
own expertise in property valuation. So it had used an expert, an appropriately qualified
surveyor to carry out the valuation. And the surveyor produced a report saying the property
wasnt suitable security for lending, due to restricted resale and poor demand. Kent relied on
the contents of the report to make a lending decision, which is what we would expect them to
do. Our investigator understood that Mrs W was unhappy with the surveyors conclusions,
but she said our service cant look into the actions of the surveyor specifically, as this isnt
something covered by the remit of our service.
Mrs W said Kent had let her down, because she paid for a survey that wasnt satisfactorily
completed. She said her property had been incorrectly valued for sale at nil, which was
clearly unacceptable. But our investigator didnt change her mind. Mrs W wanted this
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold a small part of this complaint. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by dealing with Mrs Ws central complaint point  that no competent 
valuation was carried out, and her fee should be returned. Im sorry to tell Mrs W that I 
dont agree. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mrs Ws key challenge is to what the surveyor said. And we cant change that
conclusion for Mrs W. It doesnt fall within the scope of what our service is allowed to
consider. So all I can do is note that the surveyor reached their own professional 
decision on whether the property was suitable security for Kents lending. And they said 
not.
Mrs W said this couldnt possibly be right  assigning a sale value of nil just meant the
surveyor couldnt do their job. But the valuation of nil doesnt mean Mr and Mrs Ws 
property is worthless. This isnt a valuation for sale purposes, so its not an indication of 
what they would get if they put the house on the market. What the valuer is doing is 
something quite specific - assessing whether Kent should lend money on the property.
If a house is likely to appeal to a smaller resale market, or unlikely to generate much
demand in the market, then lenders want to know this before they offer a mortgage 
secured on that property. In the worst case scenario, if something prevents a borrower 
from paying their mortgage, lenders want to know that they can sell the mortgaged 
property. And its important, in that worst case scenario, for a lender to know that the 
property can be sold relatively quickly. Thats because if someones not able to pay their 
mortgage and the house needs to be sold, the borrowers debt keeps rising while the 
propertys waiting to sell.
But, as Ive explained, our service cant question the decision the surveyor made. 
Surveyors arent covered by our service. All we can do is look at the decisions that Kent 
made.
Here, it instructed a qualified surveyor. It got a report, which said the surveyor wouldnt
recommend lending on this property  and that involves a valuation for lending purposes
only of nil.
Kent relied on that report, and decided not to lend to Mr and Mrs W. I dont think that the
report was obviously incompetent, as Mrs W has suggested. So I think relying on this 
report was a reasonable thing for Kent to do.Kent also said Mrs W could send evidence of comparable sales, if she wanted to 
challenge this report. Mrs W sent details of asking prices for local properties. Kent didnt 
change its mind, as it has, quite reasonably, said the best evidence comes from houses 
that have actually sold. It sent Mr and Mrs W a complaint response letter, saying it 
wouldnt change its mind.
But then Mrs W sent another email, with details of properties she considered were
comparable, which had sold relatively recently. She sent this on 20 June, after she 
received Kents complaint response letter, and asked if this was enough to reopen her 
case. Kent did send a reply, and it told her it had sent her new evidence to its real estate 
section to review, but it then doesnt actually appear to have reviewed this, or sent any 
further response at all. 
I dont think Kent was under an obligation to review the decision of its surveyor at this 
point, or to ask its surveyor to reconsider. Kent doesnt actually offer any sort of formal 
appeals process for its valuations, but it had reviewed what it had done, the first time 
Mrs W objected. I dont think it had to keep reconsidering, each time Mrs W objected. 
However, I think that failing to reply at all to Mrs W was poor service, and has meant this 
issue remained unresolved for her, for longer than I think was necessary. For those 
reasons, I will ask Kent to make a payment of £100 now, because instead of responding 
to Mrs W to say that the issue was closed, it appears to have accepted it would review 
her further submissions, but not actually done so.
I know that Mrs W will be disappointed by this award, because she paid much more than 
this for a survey, and she wanted all that money back. But, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think Kent has to do more than this.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance must pay Mr and 
Mrs W £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman