DRN-4002350
The complaint
Mr S complains Allianz Insurance Plc handled his subsidence claim poorly.
Mr S has been represented for the complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of Mr S. Ive done the same for Allianzs agents and 
contractors. 
What happened
Mr S made a subsidence claim against his Allianz home insurance policy. In 2013 Allianz 
removed vegetation to prevent further movement. The insurer monitored the property from 
2014 to 2017. Reinstatement work, including superstructure crack repairs and redecoration, 
began in June 2021. In July 2021 Allianz agreed to pay for alternative accommodation (AA) 
as the property was difficult to live in during works. 
Mr S was unhappy with various aspects of the repair  including timescales, additional 
damage to contents and the re-emergence of cracks following repair. In June 2022 Allianz 
responded to a complaint from Mr S. It apologised for delays with repairs and moving back 
to the property. It offered £500 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied so came so came to this service. He asked this service to consider a 
range of issues. These include requiring Allianz to inspect his home and consider damage 
he feels may be the result of ongoing subsidence. He also wanted various items he feels 
were damaged in storage or onsite by Allianzs contractors to be replaced. In addition Mr S 
would like more compensation for the distress and inconvenience Allianz has caused. 
In January 2023 our investigator considered the complaint. He felt the compensation already 
offered was a fair amount. He felt Allianz should reimburse the cost of an engineers report. 
He recommended it attend the site to discuss the quality of rectification works and examine 
the new cracks  and items reported as damaged by Mr S. Finally he recommended simple 
interest be paid on payments made to reimburse the cost of AA. Allianz didnt accept that 
outcome. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I recently issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive 
copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Allianz to attend the site to 
discuss the repairs, replace various damaged items or reimburse the cost of Mr S report. I 
also set out why I intended to ask Allianz to pay simple interest on the AA costs. Finally I 
invited Me S and Allianz to provide anything further they would like me to consider before 
issuing my final decision.   
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr S and Allianz have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
Mr S has provided various photos of cracks to the interior of his home. Hes 
concerned this is continuing subsidence or ineffective repair by Allianz. It inspected 
the cracks in May 2022. It says theres nothing to suggest its continuing subsidence 
movement. It says the previous monitoring showed movement within tolerance.  It 
also denies these issues are the result of its poor workmanship. 
Allianz believes the cause is most likely defects in the construction of the property. It 
refers to its engineers comments on a lack of lateral restraint due to removal of a 
roof truss  and a lack of horizontal support due to the removal of a central wall. It 
says alternatively the cracks are caused by standard thermal fluctuations that 
properties experience. 
Ive considered everything Mr S has provided  including an October 2021 report 
from an engineer. The report raises some potential concerns  but ultimately its 
inconclusive. So currently Im more persuaded by Allianzs position that there isnt 
any continuing subsidence  or further claim related damage. And having considered 
its position on the repair schedule of works Im not persuaded there is a need for a 
further site visit as recommended by our investigator. 
This service often requires insurers to reimburse policyholders the cost of their 
technical reports  but usually only when we feel such a report has made a difference 
to the claim. I cant see that is the case for the October 2021 report. So I dont intend 
to require Allianz to reimburse Mr S its cost. 
Mr S wants Allianz to replace various items he feels Allianz is responsible for 
damaging. He believes the damage was caused by its storage provider or 
contractors on site. The items include a television, carpets and wardrobes. 
Allianz doesnt accept its liable for any of this damage. It says Mr S signed an 
agreement to state items had been returned from storage in a suitable condition. It 
denies any responsibility for damage to items on site. It says its contractors didnt 
move the items or work in the rooms they were stored in. It also adds Mr S own 
contractors may have been responsible. Ultimately Allianz doesnt accept theres any 
evidence to show its responsible for the damage. 
I accept its possible Allianz is responsible for damaging some or all the items. But if 
Im to fairly require it to replace them Id need to be persuaded its most likely 
responsible for damaging them. However, thats not the case here. I havent been 
shown anything to demonstrate the condition of the items before the repair process 
and after. Allianz raises fair points about the lack of evidence its contractors are 
responsible  as well as the possibility that others may be. So I dont intend to require 
Allianz to replace any of these items. 
Allianz didnt agree to paying interest on the AA reimbursement. It said the property 
Mr S rented, without its agreement, wasnt equivalent to his own. It adds the costs 
was twice what it should have been. It feels as the costs were outside its liability a 
period to validate the payment was reasonable. 
I note Allianzs point on this. I can understand why it didnt pay out in August 2021 
when it was provided with an unprofessional looking invoice. And I agree its reasonable to take steps to validate the payment. However, Allianz hasnt explained 
why it took so many months to complete that process and raise payment. 
So to make up for Mr S being without the £9,000 for an unreasonably long period it 
will need to add simple interest from the date he paid the rent until the date Allianz 
reimbursed him.  
Mr S feels £500 compensation isnt enough to recognise the impact of Allianzs poor 
handling of the claim. Ive considered everything hes said  including the 
inconvenience involved, the distress to him and his family. Hes particularly frustrated 
with Allianzs communication and planning. The repair has taken considerably longer 
than might usually be expected. Not all the delays can be attributed to Allianz  but a 
fair amount of it does seem likely to be its responsibility.    
Mr S has referred to a family members medical condition worsening in recent times. 
However, I cant fairly attribute this to poor service by Allianz.  Id need something to 
show a direct link between the two. I also need to consider that Mr S and his family 
were provided with AA for a significant period of the repairs. I accept being in AA can 
be an inconvenience. However, it will likely have reduced the impact of the disruption 
caused by the extended period of repair. So overall I feel Allianzs offer of £500 
compensation is enough. So I dont intend to require it to pay anything extra. 
Finally Mr S asked that Allianz investigate the source of a damp smell. As far as Ive 
seen this hasnt been reported to the insurer yet  or hasnt been the subject of a 
complaint. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider that issue here. Mr S 
should pursue it with Allianz before raising it with this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S provided some information about the collection and return of some of the damaged 
items. However, it wasnt enough to change my position. Im still not persuaded theres 
enough to show Allianzs contractors are most likely responsible for the damage. So Im not 
going to require it to replace any of the items.
I wasnt provided with anything to change my mind on any other aspects of the complaint. So 
my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Allianz to pay Mr S simple interest on the AA 
payments  from the date he paid the rent until the date Allianz reimbursed him. I dont 
require it to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman