DRN-4042096
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc wont refund to him the money that he 
and his wife paid for a holiday club membership. Hes being represented in his complaint by 
a legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional; decision on this complaint in February 2023 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr S and his wife entered into a membership application agreement to buy a holiday 
club membership in October 2017. The membership application fee was £16,750 and 
Mr S made a payment of £5,250 to the holiday company using his RBS credit card. 
Mr S and his wife also entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a finance 
provider for a loan of £11,725.
Mr Ss representative complained to RBS in July 2020 that the membership had been 
misrepresented to Mr S and that there had been a breach of contract. Claims were 
made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and Mr Ss 
representative provided documents including a witness statement from Mr S.
RBS said that it had been unable to establish that there was a debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship that was required for a claim under section 75 so it didnt 
consider that section 75 applied to Mr Ss complaint. It also said that the liquidation of 
the management company didnt affect his rights as a member of the club and his 
entitlement to use the holiday weeks purchased as, following the appointment of a 
new club manager, members will continue to be able to utilise their entitlements. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so a complaint was made to this service. Mr S 
and his wife have also made a complaint about the finance provider but that 
complaint is being dealt with separately.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She thought 
that the holiday company had misrepresented the membership as something that 
could be resold in the future so Mr S had paid for a product that he would otherwise 
not have purchased. She recommended that RBS should: rework Mr Ss credit card 
account as if the payment of £5,025 hadnt been made in October 2017 and refund 
the difference between that and his actual credit card balance to Mr S, with interest. 
She also recommended that it should refund any maintenance fees paid for the years 
in which the membership wasnt utilised, with interest.
RBS accepted the investigators findings but offered to refund to Mr S the amount 
that hed paid for the membership using his RBS credit card, with interest, which it 
said was a more generous offer. Mr Ss representative says that RBS and the finance 
provider are jointly and severally liable for the losses so RBS is liable to make full 
redress and an apportionment between lenders is only acceptable if both lenders 
accept the recommendations and pay the compensation.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Mr Ss representative complained to RBS under sections 75 and 140A. It said that 
Mr S and his wife were told that:
they would be investing in their holidays by securing future holidays that 
would be significantly cheaper than would be available on the open market;
there was a ready re-sale market for their membership so they would be able 
to sell it and that there were good prospects of it increasing in value;
the offer was only available for a very limited time and that if they didnt 
purchase the offer would no longer be available;
the resorts were exclusive to club members and werent open to the public; 
and
as an incentive to enter into the agreement, the holiday company offered 
them £1,000 if they relinquished their use of the membership for the coming 
year  and that the maintenance fees for the membership would be covered 
by the holiday company for the first two years.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met). Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a 
creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it 
determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. Im 
not determining the outcome of Mr Ss claims under sections 75 and 140A as only a 
court would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not RBSs response to 
his claims was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S has provided a detailed witness statement in which he describes the way that 
the membership was sold to him and his wife and the misrepresentations that he 
says were made to them. Their representative has also provided evidence from other 
purchasers of memberships about the way that the sales were made to them but 
theres no other evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the 
membership to Mr S and his wife.
Mr S and his wife signed the membership application agreement in five places, they 
entered into an exchange membership contract, they signed a separate standard 
withdrawal form which set out their right to withdraw from the agreement and they 
initialled each page of a standard information form.
The membership application agreement says: This Agreement shall constitute the 
sole agreement between the parties and supercedes all prior agreement, 
representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with respect to the 
subject matter hereof. The standard information form says: The resale programme 
will be available with effect from 1st January 2020. In order to benefit from this facility 
clients would need to apply and agree to the Terms and Conditions on the 
designated form. An application charge of £49 per Membership Certificate applies for 
a years timeframe.
Ive seen no reference in the membership application agreement or the other 
documents that Mr S and his wife signed to the membership being an investment or 
likely to increase in value. A resale programme was to be available from January 
2020 so I dont consider it to be likely that Mr S and his wife wouldve been told that there was a ready re-sale market for their membership and Ive seen no documentary 
evidence from that time to show that Mr S and his wife were told that there was a 
ready re-sale market for the membership. Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr S 
and his wife contacted the holiday company after January 2020 about the resale 
programme.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S was advised that 
the holiday company would pay him and his wife £1,000 if they surrendered a holiday 
week or that it would cover the maintenance fees for the membership for the first two 
years. Ive not seen any reference to such arrangements in the agreements that Mr S 
and his wife signed and, if that was an offer that had be made to them, I consider that 
it would be reasonable to expect them to have asked for written confirmation of that 
offer.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S and his wife were 
told that the accommodation would be significantly cheaper than would be available 
on the open market, that the exclusivity of the membership was misrepresented to 
them or that the membership was misrepresented to them in any other significant 
way. So I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S and his wife 
were induced into buying the membership by misrepresentations made by the 
holiday company.
I understand that a management company related to the holiday company has 
stopped trading but the holiday company says that a new management company has 
been appointed to provide the membership services and Mr S and his wife have kept 
all of their contractual rights and the new holiday company continues to offer a full 
service for members. I dont consider that to be a breach of contract by the holiday 
company and Im not aware of any other breach of contract by the holiday company 
so Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the holiday company 
for which RBS would have any liability under section 75.
As I dont consider that RBS would have any liability to Mr S under section 75 for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday company, theres no need for 
me to consider whether the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required for a claim 
under section 75 was present in these arrangements.
Mr Ss representative says that there was an unfair relationship between Mr S and 
RBS because of the alleged misrepresentations, the selling practices used by the 
holiday company (including a lengthy and confusing sales presentation), the 
documents not being clear and easy to understand, the membership being sold as an 
investment and not being suitable for Mr S and his wife, and the foreclosure clause 
for non-payment of management fees and other unfair clauses.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S and his wife were 
unduly pressured into buying the membership in October 2017 or that the holiday 
company used unacceptable sales practices against them. Mr S and his wife both 
signed a separate standard withdrawal form which set out their right to withdraw from 
the membership application agreement. I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect them to have read the agreement before they signed it and, if they didnt 
agree with its terms, not to have signed it. They would also have been aware of their 
right to withdraw from it and if the holiday companys sales practices were 
unacceptable to them and they didnt want to be bound by the agreement, I consider 
that it would be reasonable to expect them to have withdrawn from the agreement. 
But Ive seen no evidence to show that they tried to withdraw from the membership 
application agreement during the withdrawal period.It would be for a court to decide whether the terms of the agreement are unfair. I 
agree with Mr Ss representative that the documents arent as clear and easy to read 
as they could be, but I dont consider that that makes them unfair and Im not 
persuaded that the terms of the agreement are unfair or that its likely that a court 
would find the agreement to be unfair.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the relationship 
between Mr S and RBS was unfair and I dont consider it to be likely that a court 
would find the relationship to be unfair.
RBS said that it didnt consider that section 75 applied to Mr Ss complaint and I dont 
consider that its response was unfair or unreasonable. It has now said that it 
accepted our investigators findings and it offered to refund to Mr S the amount that 
hed paid for the membership using his RBS credit card, with interest. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont consider that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld so I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require RBS to refund to Mr S any 
of the money that he and his wife paid for the holiday club membership, to pay them 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to their complaint.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Mr S, his 
representative and RBS, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. RBS has accepted my provisional decision and says that it doesnt have any 
further points to add but Mr Ss representative has provided detailed responses to my 
provisional decision. 
It says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
RBS accepted that the investigators outcome was a fair and reasonable outcome, 
and only sought to limit its liability to 50% of what it would otherwise have had to pay 
to compensate Mr S and his wife;
this was more than a holiday product and was sold as an investment;
the investigator on a similar complaint recommended that it should be upheld and I 
havent explained why the investigator was wrong in reaching the conclusion that he 
did and it has described the obligation that this service is under when investigating 
complaints;
I havent considered Mr Ss detailed witness statement and the evidence from other 
customers of the holiday club  and no evidence has been produced to rebut it  and 
by its very nature the misrepresentations involved oral statements to induce Mr S to 
enter into the agreement; 
the holiday company went into liquidation in May 2020 and correspondence from the 
liquidator stated that there was no club manager and no guarantee that a new 
manager would be appointed and the resale programme was discontinued so Mr S 
was entitled to give notice to accept the breach of contract and terminate the 
agreement;
the resale and rental payment was clearly a key feature of the product but there was 
no viable resale market for it and the reference to resales means that the product 
was not sold purely for holiday purposes;
a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair relationship;
the terms of the purchase agreement and the club rules also give rise to an unfair 
relationship; andthe agreement doesnt bar out reliance placed on oral representations to induce the 
purchase and any clause purporting to bar out a claim based on misrepresentation in 
these circumstances would be unenforceable and anything said by the holiday 
company to induce Mr S to enter into the agreement is incorporated as a term of the 
contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. I issued a provisional decision because I didnt agree with the 
recommendations made by our investigator. I said in my provisional decision that Id 
considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint  and that includes Mr Ss witness 
statement - and I described the reasons that I didnt consider that his complaint should be 
upheld. 
I set out in my provisional decision the reasons that I didnt consider that there was enough 
evidence to show that Mr S and his wife were induced into buying the membership by 
misrepresentations made by the holiday company. Ive carefully considered Mr Ss 
representatives response to my provisional decision but I dont consider that the offer of a 
future resale programme shows that the membership was an investment. Mr S and his wife 
had agreed that a resale programme was to be available from January 2020 and Ive seen 
no evidence to show that they contacted the holiday company after January 2020 about the 
resale programme. Im not persuaded that Mr S and his representative have provided 
enough evidence to show that the membership was sold as an investment or that it was 
misrepresented to Mr S. 
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. I have taken account of the 
evidence that Mr Ss representative has provided from other purchasers of memberships 
about the way that the sales were made to them but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the membership to Mr S and his 
wife. Mr Ss representative has referred to another complaint that our investigator had 
recommended should be upheld but Ive issued provisional and final decisions on that 
complaint in which I set out the reasons that I found that it shouldnt be upheld.
RBS said a new club manager had been appointed and that members would continue to be 
able to utilise their entitlements but Mr Ss representative has provided evidence to show 
that the holiday company went into liquidation. I consider that the liquidation of the holiday 
company would be a breach of contract for which RBS would be liable under section 75  
but another holiday company has been appointed to provide the services under the 
membership application agreement and other documents that Mr S and his wife agreed with 
the holiday company. I understand Mr Ss concerns arising from the liquidation of the holiday 
company but Ive seen no evidence to show that he and his wife havent been able to use 
their membership or that theyve been adversely impacted by the liquidation of the holiday 
company. I consider the appointment of the other holiday company to have been a suitable 
remedy for any breach of contract and Im not persuaded that Mr S and his wife were entitled 
to terminate the agreement in these circumstances.
Mr Ss representative says that a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair 
relationship and that the terms of the membership application agreement and the club rules 
also give rise to an unfair relationship. Ive carefully considered those but it would be for a 
court to determine whether or not any of the terms are unfair. I dont consider that the presence of an unfair (or potentially unfair) term alone is likely to mean that a court would 
conclude that it created an unfair relationship between a debtor and a creditor as the court 
would consider how the term operated in practice and whether the operation of that term 
caused the relationship to be unfair. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the terms of the documents have been applied or operated unfairly against Mr S and his 
wife and I consider it be unlikely that a court would conclude in these circumstances that the 
terms of the documents created an unfair relationship between Mr S and RBS.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the relationship between Mr S 
and RBS was unfair and I dont consider it to be likely that a court would find the relationship 
to be unfair. RBS said that it didnt consider that section 75 applied to Mr Ss complaint and I 
dont consider that its response to his complaint was unfair or unreasonable. It then said that 
it accepted our investigators findings but I dont consider that Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require RBS to take any action 
in response to his complaint.
I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that hes described in his witness statement but I dont 
consider that his complaint should be upheld so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to require RBS to refund to him any of the money that he and his wife paid for the 
holiday club membership, to pay any compensation to Mr S or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman