DRN-2358673
The complaint
Mr F has complained that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him an income protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2001, while in the process of applying for a mortgage, Mr F met with an adviser from 
ReAssure and agreed to take out an income protection insurance policy. The policy, which 
was marketed by ReAssure as mortgage payment insurance, after a deferred period of 
twelve months would pay Mr F a monthly benefit of £250 in the event he was unable to 
perform his occupation due to illness or injury. The policy, which cost £6.46 a month, was 
designed to run for 20 years.
Some time later, it is not clear when, Mr F decided to cancel the policy.
In 2019, Mr F complained to ReAssure that the policy, which he believed was a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy, had been mis-sold. He said he hadnt needed the policy 
because he had adequate cover through his employers sickness benefit in the event that he 
became incapacitated. He said hed been led to believe he had no choice but to take out the 
cover as a condition of his mortgage.
ReAssure didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that the policy was not a PPI policy. It was 
satisfied that the policy had been a suitable recommendation for Mr F and had not been mis-
sold.
Mr F was unhappy at ReAssures response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
the twelve-month deferred period had been designed to complement Mr Fs sickness benefit 
from his employer. She was satisfied that ReAssure had done nothing wrong.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings. He maintained that the policy was a PPI policy. 
He considered that the twelve-month deferred period made the policy unsuitable because 
his employer would provide full sickness pay for the first six months but only 50% of his pay 
for the next six months, meaning that he would already have experienced financial distress 
before the benefit became available. He said hed understood he had no choice but to 
accept the advisers recommendation to take out the policy and it was only some years later 
that he realised he could cancel it.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me first of all clarify to Mr F that the policy about which he is complaining is not what we 
would normally regard as a PPI policy. Such a policy typically offers protection for a relatively 
short period of time (12-24 months) and the benefit is specifically used to meet payments on 
a credit agreement. The income protection insurance policy which Mr F took out is a 
standalone policy which could potentially pay benefit for many years and, while it was 
designed to help him cover his mortgage payments in the event he became incapacitated in 
the longer-term, the benefit would be paid directly to him to use as he wished.
There is little evidence from the time of sale. However, this is not surprising given the 
passage of time. ReAssure has nonetheless been able to provide some details of the policy 
and the application form.
The adviser recommended that Mr F take out an income protection insurance policy. 
I consider this was an appropriate recommendation. Mr F was about to enter into a 
significant financial commitment, namely a mortgage, and such a policy would help him meet 
his mortgage payments if he were to become unable to work over a longer term due to 
illness or injury.
Mr F initially complained on the grounds that he didnt need the policy because he had 
sickness cover for twelve months from his employer. However, the policy was set up with a 
deferred period of twelve months so that benefit began being paid only after this employers 
benefit had ended. I consider this was a sensible arrangement which would have made the 
policy cheaper for Mr F. 
I note that after receiving the investigators view, Mr F has now reversed his argument and is 
saying that the policy was unsuitable because his sickness pay was reduced to 50% after six 
months and he couldnt have survived financially for twelve months if hed been unable to 
work. He therefore seems to be confirming that he did indeed have need for such a policy 
but that, in his opinion, the deferred period was too long. However, I consider it likely that the 
adviser recommended the twelve month deferred period precisely because Mr F told her 
what he initially told us, namely that he wouldnt need benefit for the first twelve months of 
any absence.  
Mr F says that he was led to believe the policy was compulsory. However, there is no 
evidence to indicate he was told this. And Mr F decided to cancel the policy some time later, 
though he cant recall exactly when. However, the fact he was able to cancel the policy 
indicates that he was not obliged to hold it and Im surprised, if he feels he was misled at the 
time of sale, that he didnt register a complaint at the time he cancelled it.
Overall, I consider the evidence suggests that the adviser recommended a suitable policy to 
Mr F and he voluntarily agreed to take this out. He later decided to cancel it without having 
had need to make a claim. However, just because he didnt make a claim doesnt mean that 
the policy had been unsuitable and Im satisfied that if he had been unfortunate enough to be 
incapacitated and thus unable to work for more than twelve months, the policy would have 
responded accordingly. This being the case, I see no reasonable grounds for concluding that 
the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman