DRN-3884885
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was unable to access his HSBC UK Bank Plc online banking facility 
for around three weeks last year. Mr W also complains about the way HSBC handled his 
enquiries and the service provided. 
What happened
Mr Ws online banking key card stopped working during March 2022 and he contacted 
HSBC to request another. But the replacement didnt work. Mr Ws told us he went on to 
contact HSBC and it became apparent the issue was with its systems, not the banking key 
card. Mr Ws explained that as a result of the technical issues, he was unable to access his 
online banking facility for 23 days. Mr W complained to HSBC. 
HSBC responded to Mr Ws complaint on 8 April 2022 and paid him £100 for the 
inconvenience caused and service hed received. Mr Ws explained that, at this point, he still 
didnt have access to online banking so the key issue remained unresolved. Mr Ws online 
banking access was restored on 11 April 2022. 
On 12 April 2022 HSBC offered Mr W a further £50 to apologise for the service provided but 
didnt pay it. HSBC issued a follow up response on 13 April 2022 that said Mr W could 
accept the £50 offer at any time by contacting the business. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint. They thought the total 
compensation of £150 already offered by HSBC was a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint 
and didnt ask HSBC to increase its offer or take further action. 
Mr W asked to appeal and said systems issues by HSBC meant he was without access to 
online banking for 23 days. Mr W also pointed out HSBC had closed his complaint case and 
paid compensation before the technical issues were fully resolved. Mr W also said that whilst 
he was offered a further £50 it wasnt subsequently paid. Mr W also said the offer didnt 
reflect the time hed spent dealing with HSBC. As Mr W asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can see that Mr W experienced technical problems with HSBCs online banking facility that 
persisted for over three weeks. And the information available supports that Mr W contacted 
HSBC on various occasions trying to resolve the situation and get answers. I dont doubt 
what Mr Ws told us about the level of frustration caused by not having access to his online 
banking facility and I can see the problem went on for a reasonable amount of time. Mr Ws 
told us HSBC initially sent him a new access key but later found there was an issue with its 
systems. Im pleased the technical issues were ultimately resolved, but I can understand 
why Mr W was frustrated at the time taken. 
Mr Ws also told us HSBC failed to contact him as promised. And I can see there were times 
when he wasnt contacted as agreed. HSBCs final responses apologise for the service 
provided and offered a total of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr Ws told 
us the way HSBC communicated with him meant he had to take time out of work or while 
travelling which caused additional inconvenience. And Mr W forwarded evidence of his call 
costs with HSBC when raising the systems issues. I accept that Mr W was inconvenienced 
both by the lack of online banking access and the level and nature of contact he had with 
HSBC. And I agree the service provided shouldve been better and calls werent made as 
promised. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate Mr W incurred call costs 
and that he had to take time out of his day to raise the issue with HSBC. I can see there was 
a reasonable level of contact and its clear Mr W sought to chase responses from HSBC on 
several occasions. But HSBC paid Mr W £100 to reflect the service provided and went on to 
offer a further £50 to resolve his complaint. HSBC sent a follow up letter that confirmed Mr W 
could call its agents to arrange payment of the £50 offer it subsequently made. 
I can see Mr W wasnt always contacted as promised and that he was instrumental in raising 
the issue with HSBC with a view to restoring online banking. Having considered everything 
Mr W has told us about how the issues raised have impacted him, Im satisfied HSBC has 
made an offer that fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. To put it 
another way, the total settlement of £150 is very much in line with what I wouldve told HSBC 
to pay had no offer been made. Im pleased access to Mr Ws online banking facility was 
restored and Im satisfied HSBC has offered compensation that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it 
to increase the award or doing anything else. 
HSBC paid £100 when it issue its first final response. If Mr W accepts, HSBC will be required 
to pay the additional £50 it offered. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman