DRN-4132794
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) is refusing to refund her the amount she lost 
as the result of a scam. 
Miss Z is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Miss Z 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Miss Z found an advert on Facebook for a company called Malpark Limited Company (X), 
about how to make money from investments. Miss Z took an interest in the advert and 
completed an online data caption form with her contact information.
X called Miss Z and appeared very professional. It also directed Miss Z to its website that 
looked legitimate and gave Miss Z further confidence that it was a legitimate business. In 
addition to this Miss Z was able to see that X was registered at companies house.
After agreeing to make a small investment which was successful, X convinced Miss Z to 
make larger investments. X explained larger investments would need to be made via a 
cryptocurrency exchange (Wisenex). As Miss Z was not familiar with this type of payment X 
helped her with the payments via the screensharing application AnyDesk.
Money was moved from savings and Miss Zs credit card to fund the investment through her 
Wisenex account.
After making several payments into the scam Miss Z applied for another credit card to fund 
the investment further. While waiting for the investment Miss Z discovered that X may have 
spoofed another similar business. Miss Z then tried to withdraw funds from her investment 
but was unsuccessful. At his point Miss Z realised she had fallen victim to a scam.
Miss Z made the following payments into the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
25 May 2022 Wisenex £1,113.56 Debit Card
27 May 2022 Wisenex £3,011.76 Debit Card
2 June 2022 Wisenex £2,256.32 Debit Card
2 June 2022 Wisenex £4,277.76 Debit Card
Unfortunately, Miss Z has not been able to recover any of the payments she made.
Our Investigator considered Miss Zs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss Z 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Miss Z has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Miss Z and Revolut sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Revolut should refund the money Miss Z lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Miss Z made
When payments are made by debit card the only recovery option Revolut have is to raise a 
chargeback. Revolut did ask Miss Z to contact it so this option could be explored but Miss Z 
did not contact it. 
In any event its unlikely a chargeback would have been successful.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss Z was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Miss Z 
didnt make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, she paid a separate 
cryptocurrency exchange (Wisenex). This is important because Revolut was only able to 
process chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (Wisenex), not another party.
The service provided by Wisenex would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Miss Zs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Wisenex provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Miss Z paid. As Wizenex provided 
the requested service to Miss Z any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Miss Z made?
Miss Z has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Wizenex, so the starting 
point here is that Miss Z is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revoliut should have stepped in when Miss Z was attempting 
to make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking 
place.
Miss Z had recently opened her account with Revolut so it had no history to compare Miss 
Zs usual spending to. Miss Z was also making payments to a legitimate business (Wisenex). 
While Miss Z made two payments in the same day that combined came to a significant 
value, she had already made two previous payments to the same business by this point 
without complaint and was beginning to build a history of how she was likely to use her new 
account with Revolut. 
With the above in mind, I dont think the payments Miss Z was making from her account with 
Revolut would have been considered unusual or reasonably triggered Revoluts fraud prevention systems. So, I dont think Revolut missed an opportunity to prevent the scam and 
it is not responsible for Miss Zs loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman