DRN-4108050
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society merged his account with that of another 
customer, who was able to withdraw funds. He says the third party is now linked to his credit 
file, which is having an adverse impact on him.
What happened
Mr H holds an account with Nationwide. In July 2021, Nationwide merged Mr Hs customer 
profile with that of another customer by mistake. In November 2021, that other customer 
removed more than £18,000 from Mr Hs accounts. Mr H became aware of this on 1 
December 2021 and contacted Nationwide. Nationwide separated the customers profiles on 
24 December 2021 and returned Mr Hs funds to him on 20 January 2022.
Nationwide accepts that what happened was its error entirely. It says its system thought Mr 
H and the other customer were the same person and merged their profiles. Nationwide 
accepts that it delayed in returning Mr Hs funds and that it was only through his persistence 
that the money was returned to him on 20 January 2022. It offered him £300 as an apology.
Mr H didnt think that was enough. He said that, not only had a third party been able to take 
his funds, but their data had been linked to his credit file, affecting his credit score. He said 
that Nationwide broke several data protection laws as sensitive information was exposed to 
the third party. He said that Nationwide hadnt done anything to stop the third party removing 
the funds and still hadnt stopped them having access to his accounts. He said the 
experience had caused him to lose trust in banks in general as he didnt feel his money was 
safe. He brought the complaint to this service. 
Initially, our Investigator recommended that Nationwide pay Mr H £400, which Nationwide 
agreed. But Mr H didnt think this was enough as hed experienced anxiety and stress over a 
period of months. He said he was still experiencing issues which indicated his accounts were 
still linked to the third party. He said he was receiving text messages from Nationwide which 
were intended for the third party. And he said his credit file showed information about the 
third party.
Nationwide looked into it and confirmed in March 2023 that Mr Hs phone number was saved 
on the third partys alerts profile, which was why Mr H was receiving the messages. It 
corrected this and said that Mr H shouldnt receive any further messages. It accepted that 
this should have been corrected previously. Nationwide also accepted that the third partys 
credit card was still showing on Mr Hs credit file. It said this was because the error hadnt 
been corrected properly before. It said it would resolve this but that it could take six to eight 
weeks for the Credit Reference Agencies to update the information.
Our Investigator issued a further view. As Nationwide hadnt corrected the mistake properly 
the first time and this had led to ongoing anxiety for Mr H over further months, she 
recommended that Nationwide pay compensation of £750. Nationwide agreed to this. But Mr 
H didnt think it was enough as the issue had gone on for so long and hed been worried that 
the third party had access to his sensitive information during all that time. He also said that 
the data on his credit file had affected a mortgage application. He suggested that £10,000 
would be an appropriate amount of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the sensitive nature of this complaint, theres a limit to how much detail Nationwide 
can provide. But Im satisfied that the accounts were merged by Nationwides computer 
system by mistake. Im also satisfied that they were separated on 24 December 2021. And 
Mr H has received his money back, although Nationwide admits to a delay in this happening.
Nationwide confirmed in March this year that it had removed Mr Hs number from the third 
partys text alerts profile and Mr H has confirmed that he hasnt received any more 
messages since then. So I find that issue to be resolved.
Im satisfied that Nationwide asked the Credit Reference Agencies to remove the link to the 
other customer and correct the errors on Mr Hs credit file. Within the last few days, it has 
confirmed that it checked this again and that the links to the third party have been removed. 
Mr H has confirmed that another address on his credit file is a property he owns, so that 
doesnt need to be removed. Mr H says the problem hasnt been fixed, but I havent seen 
any evidence of an ongoing problem. It may be that some of the changes arent yet reflecting 
on the credit file as they can take a while to be updated by the Credit Reference Agencies. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I find that Nationwide has taken the necessary steps to correct 
Mr Hs credit file.
Im not aware of any other outstanding issues. So, Nationwide has accepted its mistakes 
and corrected them. But I need to consider whether it has done enough to recognise the 
impact these mistakes had on Mr H. As our Investigator explained, we cant determine 
whether data protection laws have been breached as that is a matter for the courts. 
Mr H says his application for a mortgage was affected, but I havent seen any evidence of 
that or details of any financial loss. However, the distress, inconvenience and frustration Mr 
H experienced here was considerable and arose through no fault of his own. He was 
shocked and very worried to discover that a third party had been able to withdraw significant 
amounts of money from his account. 
Mr H let Nationwide know as soon as he became aware of the issue. But Nationwide didnt 
separate the accounts until more than three weeks later. I dont think that was reasonable. I 
think the situation should have been investigated with more urgency. Because it wasnt, the 
distress was prolonged for Mr H. Once the profiles had been separated, Mr H didnt receive 
his money back for another month. Nationwide accepts this was a delay on its part, but I 
dont think it has done enough to acknowledge the effect this had on Mr H. Until he received 
the money back, he couldnt be sure it would be returned to him. A significant amount of 
money had been taken from him and he was without it for several weeks.
Unfortunately, even when the money was returned to Mr H, the problems werent all 
resolved. Thats because Nationwide hadnt corrected the original problem properly. Mr H 
provided evidence to show that, as recently as October 2022, he was still receiving 
messages from Nationwide which were intended for the third party. And his credit file 
included information about accounts held by the third party. Nationwide accepts that this 
should have been addressed in December 2021. It was made aware in November 2022 that 
there was still a problem, but this wasnt fully investigated and resolved until March 2023.So, although the accounts were substantively demerged in December 2021 and Mr H 
received his money back in January 2022, his profile was in some respects still linked to the 
unknown third party until March 2023, having been joined with it in July 2021. I dont think its 
reasonable that it took this long to be sorted out. Its understandable that Mr H remained 
very anxious during this time about the security of his account. I havent seen any evidence 
that his details were visible to the third party after December 2021. But, as Mr H was 
receiving messages which were meant for the third party, its understandable that he feared 
this might be working both ways and that the third party could be receiving sensitive 
information about him.
Putting things right
I think Nationwide should pay Mr H £750 to reflect the impact of its mistakes. I realise Mr H 
will be disappointed with this decision and Im sorry for that. But, from the evidence available 
to me, I think this amount of compensation is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay 
compensation of £750 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman