DRN-2650522
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough for his
written-off car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged whilst parked and unattended. esure checked the valuation figures 
given in four national trade guides for cars similar to Mr Ms car. It offered Mr M the average 
of the closest two figures shown in them  which were also the lowest of the four sums 
quoted. Mr M wasnt happy with esures offer of £3,817 (which was subject to a deduction of 
£128 for pre-existing damage) so he complained to this service.
One of our investigators later checked the trade guide figures and found that one of them
quoted a sum much higher than the one used in esures calculations. Using the figure he 
found meant disregarding the lowest of the four valuations (as it was then out of line with the 
other three). Based on the new figures, the investigator said esure should increase the sum 
it had offered Mr M by £345.
esure didnt think that was reasonable. But it proposed that it would be fair to take an
average of the figures shown in all four guides, as there wasnt much difference between the
highest and the lowest. It said as there was nothing to show that the figures its engineer got
from the guides were wrong at the time he got them, its original figures should be used. That
meant offering Mr M an extra £174.
Mr M wasnt happy with the revised offer, and esure wouldnt increase it any further, so the
complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I dont think esures initial offer was fair, although I think it was offered because the two
lowest valuations were also the two closest ones. The difference between all four figures
shown in the guides was less than £500, so I dont think that was the fairest way of
calculating the market value offer for Mr Ms car in this particular case. And I think esure
accepted that in making its revised offer.
We usually say that if one of the trade guide figures is out of line with the others, it should be
disregarded. But here neither of the sums quoted on either side of the two closest figures
was an obvious outlier. esures revised offer for Mr Ms car  based on the average of all
four of the figures quoted in the guides - was £3,991.25. The investigator thought that should
be raised because of the higher sum hed found in one of the guides. Using that higher sum,
one of the trade guides figures was then out of line with the other three, so he disregarded it
and arrived at a valuation of £4,163.
I dont think theres anything to show that the figures esure found when it valued the car
were wrong  including the one that had changed by the time the investigator checked it.
The figures given in that particular guide change frequently, and the sum he used was based
on the whole month in which esure got its valuation. I think esure was entitled to rely on the
valuation it got part-way through the month, as it was based on the correct details for Mr Ms
car then. The other three sums it used were very similar to those used by the investigator.
In my opinion, it would be fair and reasonable for esure to increase its offer to Mr M to
£3,991.25. I think its entitled to deduct 50% of the cost of the cars pre-existing damage
(£128) from that sum, which means it should pay Mr M £3,763.25 for his vehicle.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure didnt comment and Mr M 
accepted it without further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As esure didnt comment and Mr M accepted my provisional findings, theres no reason to 
depart from them. I think esure should increase its offer to Mr M to £3,991.25, minus half the 
cost of the pre-existing damage (£128), so it should pay him £3,763.25.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr M £3,763.25 for his car, as it has already offered to do.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman