DRN-3043056
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was arranged during a meeting when Mr and Mrs M were arranging their 
mortgage. BoS isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time of sale - this is 
unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place so long ago. So Ive considered 
Mr and Mrs Ms comments alongside what we know in general about how BoS sold PPI 
at the time to decide whats more likely to have happened. Based on what I know about 
how BoS sold PPI I wouldve expected a discussion with the advisor to involve a decision 
about the level of cover and to set up the policy. In Mr and Mrs Ms case it was decided 
the policy would cover Mr M only. 
I also think its likely Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to complete some paperwork at the 
time, and this is likely to have reflected the discussions they had at the time with the 
adviser. BoS has provided documents that were sent to Mr and Mrs M after the sale and 
these also suggest the PPI was discussed and Mr and Mrs M chose to take it. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr M and Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. The policy covered Mr M only so I have focused on his 
circumstances. Looking at Mr Ms circumstances at the time, the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Firstly, Mr M was eligible for the cover. Mr M 
has referred to his employee benefits, which Mr and Mrs M say they couldve relied on if 
Mr M was unable to work. Ive considered these points, but I still think Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve found the PPI useful. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside Mr Ms employee 
benefits, and for longer, as they couldve used the policy for up to 24 months if they 
needed to. Mr and Mrs M have referred to the death in service benefit Mr M was entitled 
to. This cover isnt comparable to the PPI which specifically covered Mr M if he lost his 
job or was too unwell to work. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. The effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. I think having the security that their 
repayments wouldve been made if Mr M was unable to work wouldve been important to 
them. Overall it seems to me the PPI wouldve been of use if either Mr and Mrs M were 
unable to work.
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr M has referred to a health issue he had many years before 
the sale. This seems to have been treated at the time and Mr M hasnt told us about any 
on-going issues he had because of this health issue or any periods of time he had to 
take off work because of it. It seems at the actual point of sale Mr M was in good general 
health, so it seems reasonable for BoS to recommend the policy to Mr M. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs M as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs M would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman