DRN-2566872
The complaint
Mrs T complains that MBNA Limited has defaulted her credit card debt, although she says 
that shed agreed a payment plan with MBNA. Mr T brings this complaint on her behalf.
  
What happened
Mr T said that Mrs T had reached an agreement with MBNA to pay off her credit card debt.
But he said MBNA wasnt honouring that agreement. In February 2020 she received a letter
saying that her debt had been sold, and then MBNA wrote to say it had amended the date of
Mrs Ts default to 31 October 2019.
Mr T said this must be wrong, he thought MBNA had broken its agreement with Mrs T. He
wanted MBNA to take the debt back from the third party it had been sold to, honour her
payment plan, and remove the default from her credit file.
MBNA said it had spoken to Mr T, who was also acting on behalf of Mrs T then, in July 2019.
It had stopped fees and interest from being applied, initially for 30 days, but this was then
extended until October. MBNA said it reassessed things after this. MBNA felt it was clear
that Mrs Ts difficulties were longer term, so it moved her account to the recoveries team.
That meant no fees or interest would be added in future, but a default would be registered on
Mrs Ts account.
MBNA said it had written to Mrs T a number of times about her account.
-On 2 November it sent her a letter saying her account was being passed to its
recoveries team.
-On 16 November it sent Mrs T a default notice. It said her total debt was £7,916.46,
and she now needed either to pay her arrears of £498.14 by 4 December, or agree a
suitable way forward. If not, her account would be defaulted.
-On 4 December it sent her a letter to confirm that no agreement had been reached.
The letter said if she didnt pay her arrears now, MBNA would apply a default.
MBNA said it had reconsidered since, and it thought it shouldve taken this action to default
Mrs Ts account earlier. So it had moved the default from January 2020 to October 2019.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that MBNA had given
Mrs T some breathing space when she first told it about her financial problems. Then when it
looked as if this was a longer term problem, MBNA issued the letters he would expect, to
default this debt. He didnt think MBNA was wrong to do that.
Mr T said hed set up a payment plan for Mrs T in November 2019. But our investigator said
hed listened to that call, and he didnt think that the call handler had accepted a payment
plan for Mrs Ts debt with MBNA. And he didnt think that the amount Mrs T was able to offer
was enough to clear the debt. He didnt think MBNA was wrong to then go ahead with
default action on Mrs Ts debt.
Our investigator said MBNA had reviewed Mrs Ts account, and decided it shouldve
defaulted the debt sooner. He said that this wasnt making Mrs T any worse off. The default
would now come off her credit file sooner than it otherwise would have done. He wouldnt
ask MBNA to change this now.
Our investigator said he wouldnt ask MBNA to do any more.
Mr T didnt agree. He repeated that a plan had been agreed in November 2019, and he said
Mrs T had paid as agreed under that. He said that no notification was sent about a default.
Mr T wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, and he wanted us to send Mrs T
copies of the calls that our investigator had listened to and the correspondence hed seen.
We have now sent these to Mrs T. The case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I know that Mr T understood that an agreement was reached on the November call to 
pay the debt on this account. But Ive listened carefully to that call, and I dont think 
that the call handler did agree to accept £10 as a payment plan towards the overall 
debt on Mrs Ts card, without defaulting her account. Mr T said that the offer of £10 
was a take it or leave it offer for the MBNA debt, but the call handler just said that 
the MBNA card was on a long term payment process.
The call handler went on to discuss the other debt that Mrs T had with the same 
banking group. The call handler did explain the default process, but I dont think she 
was clear that this was also the same on the MBNA debt. Mr T then asked if the call 
handler was setting up a payment for £10 to the MBNA card, and the call handler 
said no. Mr T could set up a standing order.
Like our investigator, I think this call couldve been clearer. It wouldve been helpful if 
the call handler had explained that the long term payment process she was referring 
to for the MBNA card was a default process.
But I think its important that MBNA also wrote to Mrs T after this, on 4 December, to 
say that it hadnt reached any agreement with her about her debt. That letter also 
confirmed that if arrears of just under £500 werent cleared, it would default the 
account. So I think that MBNA had explained the position on this card to Mrs T.
I know that Mr T has told us Mrs T didnt get the letters about her debt. It seems as if 
some of Mrs Ts post hasnt been safely received. But I do think it was sent, and to 
the right address.
I also think that an offer of £10 wasnt a large enough payment to avoid a default. I do
understand that this was all Mrs T could afford at the time, but when a business 
agrees to accept a payment which is significantly below what was initially agreed, 
then Id usually expect that to show on someones credit file. Mrs T owed almost 
£8,000 in total on her card, and was almost £500 in arrears. I think that it was 
reasonable for MBNA to say it would still default her debt.
MBNA did then default Mrs Ts debt. When Mrs T complained, it reviewed the 
account, and said that it thought it shouldve defaulted this debt rather sooner. If MBNA could tell at the start that this was likely to be a long term problem, then its 
better for Mrs T if it takes this step sooner. So Im pleased to see that MBNA has now 
moved the date of default from early 2020 to October 2019. I realise that may not 
seem very helpful at the moment, but it does mean that this default will come off Mrs 
Ts credit file sooner.
I do think theres one more thing that MBNA should do to put this debt into the 
position I think it shouldve been in. It charged Mrs T £87 in interest in October 2019. 
If, as MBNA says, it shouldve been clear by this time that Mrs Ts problems were 
long term, and the account should already have been the subject of a default notice, 
then I dont think this interest should have been charged. It doesnt look like its yet 
been refunded, so if it hasnt, then I think MBNA should act to ensure that Mrs Ts 
overall debt is reduced by £87.
I know thats not what Mr and Mrs T were hoping for, so Im sorry to disappoint them. 
But I dont think MBNA has to take the steps they would like to remove the default 
and put a payment plan in place instead.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA Limited must ensure Mrs Ts overall debt is reduced by £87, 
the amount it charged in interest in October 2019, if that hasnt already been refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman