DRN-1627728
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J complain about how Tesco Underwriting Limited handled and settled a claim 
they made under his home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs and Mr J hold a buildings and contents insurance policy with Tesco. On 30 July 2019 
they say a storm brought some UPVC facia off the gable end at the back of their property. 
So they contacted Tesco to initiate a claim.  
Tesco appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as P within this decision, to assess and 
determine the cause of the damage. P visited Mrs and Mr Js property on 1 August 2019 and 
completed an inspection report. It also took photographs. 
In its report P said it didnt think the damage was a direct result of a one off storm. Instead, it 
thought the adverse weather Mrs and Mr J had experienced had highlighted a pre-existing 
issue with the supporting timber underneath the fascia board, which had deteriorated over a 
period of time as it was rotten. It said this had caused the fascia board to become dislodged 
because it had nothing to hang onto in strong winds. It accepted Mrs and Mr J wouldnt have 
been aware of that deterioration as this wasnt visible to them. And it said the damage had 
happened gradually. 
Tesco told Mrs and Mr J that damage which hadnt been caused by a one off weather event 
wasnt covered by their policy and it declined their claim on this basis. It also said that it 
usually required wind speeds of at least 43 mph to be recorded for weather to meet its 
criteria of a storm. And it said the wind speeds recorded at the time the damage occurred 
were borderline.  
But Mrs and Mr J didnt agree with Tescos decision to decline their claim and they thought 
the exclusion clause it sought to rely on was unfair. So, they brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mrs and Mr J and Tesco. But 
they didnt recommend this complaint should be upheld. 
Overall, our investigator was satisfied a storm had, most likely, taken place at around the 
time the damage had occurred and they thought the damage reported was consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. But they werent persuaded storm conditions were the 
main cause of the damage. So, they agreed with Tescos outcome and thought it had acted 
fairly in declining to cover this claim. But Mrs and Mr J disagreed and asked an ombudsman 
to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs and Mr Js property. However, theres a 
disagreement between the parties about the cause of the damage and correct outcome of 
this claim. 
I can see Mrs and Mrs J feel very strongly that their claim should be paid. They have a long 
claim free history of holding insurance and I recognise they feel let down by Tesco. But, 
while I have sympathy with them, Im satisfied Tesco handled their claim fairly. And I dont 
think it made an error in declining to cover the costs of repairs. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr J would like Tesco to cover the damage to their property because they feel it 
was caused by adverse weather. Their policy with Tesco covers damage caused by a storm. 
But for a claim to be accepted under this peril Mrs and Mr J must show that any damage was 
the direct result of a single, weather event. 
When considering a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider three main 
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Our investigator explained our three stage approach to considering storm claims. And I can 
see they told Mrs and Mr J that we can only fairly say a claim should be upheld under the 
storm peril if we can answer 'yes' to all of the questions above.
In weighing up the first question Ive looked to see if Mrs and Mr Js policy defines storm. 
However, theres no definition of the word storm within the policy terms. This isnt unusual. 
As our investigator explained, this service takes the view that a storm generally involves 
violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Our service also generally 
considers wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a storm. 
Based on the weather recorded at around the time the damage occurred the wind speeds 
dont exceed 42mph. I can see that Tesco told Mrs and Mr J it usually required wind speeds 
of at least 43 mph to be recorded for weather to meet its criteria of a storm. However, it 
accepted the wind recorded was consistent with storm conditions as it was borderline. So, 
based on the position Tesco took here, Im satisfied the weather recorded could be 
considered to be a storm. It follows that Im able to answer the first question affirmatively. 
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. In this case Mrs and Mr J say the storm brought some 
UPVC facia off the gable end at the back of their property. Like our investigator, Im satisfied 
this type of damage is something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to 
answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I have to address. Ps opinion is that storm conditions 
werent the main cause of the damage. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, 
P thought the damage to Mrs and Mr Js property was caused by a deterioration in the 
condition of the supporting timber underneath the fascia board, which had happened over a 
period of time.
I know Mrs and Mr J disagree with Ps opinion. So, Ive carefully considered the inspection 
report and photographs Tesco obtained from P. Having done so, Im satisfied that its shown 
our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the damage to Mrs and Mr Js property, most likely, occurred due to the condition of the supporting timber under the fascia board 
that was dislodged in the storm. Ill explain why.
The photographs P took show areas of rot are present on the timber that supports the fascia 
boards. And this supports Ps opinion in its inspection report that theres deterioration in the 
timber, which caused the fascia boards to dislodge in the adverse weather that Mrs and Mr J 
experienced.
Timber deterioration is something that happens gradually. It doesnt happen due to a one off 
storm event. Correctly applied and maintained timber should be weather resistant and 
unaffected by storm related weather  although it will deteriorate over time. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mrs 
and Mr J experienced on 30 July 2019 highlighted the timber deterioration, which caused the 
fascia board to become dislodged. 
Overall, Im persuaded Ps report, and the photographs it took, show the damage to timber 
supporting the fascia board is most likely due to wear and tear, which happened over a 
period of time instead of a single one off storm, which is what is covered by Mrs and Mr Js 
policy. 
Tescos policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage that does not arise from one 
identifiable incident which directly and immediately caused the loss or damage is excluded 
under Mr Ps insurance policy. 
The policy terms also explain that damage caused directly or indirectly by rot or as a result of 
a lack of general maintenance isnt covered. I understand Mrs and Mr J feel this is unfair. But 
its in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover 
the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. So, I 
cant fairly find that the exclusion clauses contained within Mrs and Mr Js policy are unfair.
For the reasons outlined Im satisfied that the damage to Mrs and Mr Js policy isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of their insurance policy. So, I dont think Tescos decision to 
decline their claim was unreasonable. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it 
to pay this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman