DRN-3298903
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd approved an overdraft facility which he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr M opened a Monzo account in February 2018. Monzo approved a £1,000 overdraft 
facility in September 2018. The overdraft limit has never been increased but Mr M exceeded 
the limit in 2019. And the account was subsequently defaulted in 2020.
Mr M contacted Monzo in May 2021 to complain that it hadnt done enough checks in 2018 
to ensure the lending was affordable to him and so it had lent to him irresponsibly.
 
Monzo looked into Mr Ms complaint but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it 
had correctly assessed Mr Ms overdraft application by undertaking the required eligibility 
checks. So, it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Unhappy with Monzos response Mr M referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint but she didnt think Monzo had done anything wrong. She thought 
Monzo had carried out enough checks when it approved Mr Ms overdraft. And she didnt 
think the checks indicated that Mr M was in financial difficulties or struggling to pay his credit 
commitments at that time.  
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be reviewed again. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the overdraft was approved. 
Monzo is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
overdraft facility it was giving to Mr M was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to 
be proportionate to things like the amount of the credit being given, how much had to be 
repaid (including interest and charges) each month, Mr Ms borrowing history with it (if any) 
and what it knew about him. But there is no set list of checks it had to do. 
Monzo says before it approved the overdraft for Mr M, he confirmed his income to be 
£31,000. And it used this information, along with his age and location to determine is 
approximate monthly commitments. It also completed an external credit search through the 
credit reference agencies. And it has provided the search results it received.
Ive looked at the data Monzo has provided. This shows that while Mr M had other credit 
commitments, it doesnt reveal any information to indicate that Mr M had any defaults, 
adverse public records, or any accounts in arrears with other creditors at the time of the 
search. 
So, like the investigator, I havent found anything that I think should have prompted Monzo to 
think Mr M was in financial difficulty or that further checks were needed at that time to verify 
what Mr M had told it when he applied for the overdraft facility. It follows that I dont agree 
with Mr M that Monzo lent irresponsibly.
I can see that Mr Ms circumstances have since deteriorated. But Monzo wouldnt have 
known that this might happen when it agreed the overdraft facility. And I dont think it would 
have reason to doubt or disbelieve the information it held about Mr M at the time it approved 
the overdraft facility. 
I can see that when Monzo became aware of a potential problem  when Mr M exceeded the 
overdraft limit, it contacted him to bring the matter to his attention and to ask him to contact it 
if he was in financial difficulty. But from what Ive seen Mr M didnt contact Monzo until a 
Default Notice was issued. I can see Mr M raised a complaint about Monzo defaulting his 
account, and that Monzo responded to this in March 2020. But this doesnt form part of this 
complaint, so I wont comment on it further. 
I know Mr M thinks Monzo should have been doing far more checks as he says he was in a 
cycle of debt because of payday loans which arent showing on his credit report. And I can 
see that he has referred to other similar complaints that this service has upheld. But Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of this complaint. And given the information Monzo 
found out about Mr M - in the checks it did do at the time the overdraft facility was approved, 
and what Mr M told it about his income, I dont think Monzo was required to do further 
checks. 
   
I do very much sympathise with Mr Ms financial difficulties and his more recent medical 
diagnosis and I understand he will be disappointed with the outcome I have reached. But, 
ultimately, I have to consider whether Monzo did anything wrong when the overdraft facility 
was approved, and I dont consider it did. So, it follows that I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman