DRN-2262473
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) is holding him liable for an 
accident he says wasnt his fault. He is also unhappy he wasnt kept up to date with the 
claim and for the delay in requesting CCTV footage. 
What happened
Mr N was involved in an accident with another car in February 2018. He contacted RSA and 
explained he had turned right out of a garage. He said he was driving at minimal speed and 
was on the correct side of the road. Mr N said the third-party driver came around the corner 
at speed and as the road surface was wet, the third-party car started to skid, hit the drivers 
side door of Mr Ns car, and scraped down the car towards the rear. 
RSA was contacted by solicitors acting for the third-party driver. They claimed Mr N had 
been at fault for the accident and that personal injury had been suffered by the third-party 
driver and two passengers. RSA disputed the claim and appointed an independent 
investigator as Mr N had felt the accident might have been induced and the number of 
passengers incorrect. 
Subsequently RSA was supplied with a witness statement by the third-party solicitor; the 
witness believed Mr N was at fault for accident as they said he had cut across oncoming 
traffic. RSA tried to contact the witness on numerous occasions and continued to dispute 
liability. It was many months later the witness came forward and completed an interview with 
the claim investigator; they restated their belief Mr N was at fault. 
RSA held Mr N liable for the damage caused to the third-partys car, but it continued to 
defend the personal injury claim as it suspected this was for phantom passengers. Not 
happy with being held liable for the accident Mr N complained. RSA arranged for a legal 
opinion on liability and it was concluded Mr N would have less than 50% prospect of success 
if the matter went to court. So RSA stood by its decision to hold Mr N liable for the accident. 
It did, however, offer Mr N £200 for the delays in requesting CCTV and for him not being 
updated when he ought to have been. 
Our investigator was satisfied RSA had already fairly settled the complaint. She concluded 
RSA was entitled to settle the claim as per the terms of the policy and that decisions on 
liability were not a matter for this office. She also found the compensation offered was fair. 
Mr N has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He remains unhappy with 
the decision to hold him liable for the accident. He has provided additional photographs of 
where the accident took place and maintains he was on the correct side of the road and the 
third-party vehicle was moving at speed.  He also says there was no witness at the scene as 
no one came forward. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Mr N and RSA that although I have only summarised the background 
and arguments above, and I have read and considered everything provided in its entirety. 
Mr N in unhappy that RSA has decided to hold him liable for the accident. As explained by 
the investigator, it isnt my role to determine who was actually liable for the accident at the 
heart of this dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether 
RSA has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has 
dealt with the claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Mr N and RSA  the policy terms and 
conditions. These include a provision which entitles RSA to take over and deal with a claim, 
including agreeing settlement of it. Similar provisions are found in all motor policies Ive 
seen, and I dont find the term unusual or surprising. 
Under the terms of the policy RSA can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That 
might mean it makes a decision Mr N disagrees with, as has happened here. But the terms 
and conditions of the policy allow RSA to make such a decision. 
I know Mr N feels strongly that he isnt at fault for the accident. However, both parties have 
said the other was at fault. And although Mr N says there was no witness at the scene, a 
witness has come forward stating their belief Mr N was at fault. They have also said they are 
willing to attend court if necessary. I dont find it unfair for RSA to take this statement into 
account when deciding whether to settle the claim. 
Im also aware that RSA obtained an independent legal opinion on whether Mr N would likely 
be held liable at court. The legal opinion was that prospects of Mr N winning were less than 
50%. And, in the opinion, that remained so even without the witness testimony. Both RSA 
and the law firm the matter was referred to will have experience of how courts view such 
matters, and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. Mr N hasnt provided any 
comparable legal opinion indicating he would likely be successful. In the absence of a 
comparable legal opinion in Mr Ns favour, Im not persuaded RSA was acting unfairly when 
taking account of all of the evidence and testimony, including the legal opinion, when 
deciding to hold Mr N liable for the accident. 
I understand RSA has agreed to settle on a without prejudice basis. This means Mr N is still 
free to pursue the third-party in court, should he wish to do so.  
Mr N is also unhappy that there was a delay in requesting CCTV footage and that he wasnt 
kept up to date with the claim. Its my understanding CCTV footage is usually only kept for 
28 days. The records suggest RSA did request the footage within that time frame, so I dont 
think there was any delay. And as the investigator explained, I dont think we could hold RSA 
responsible for a third-party business not responding to its request. In the event, its not 
certain that any CCTV cameras covered the specific area the accident happened in. 
RSA admits that it should have kept Mr N better updated about what was happening with his 
claim. And I do accept it has taken some time for the claim to reach this stage  but that is 
common where the facts of what happened are in dispute and there are questions over 
liability. Im satisfied the compensation offered is a fair reflection of the inconvenience Mr N 
was put to by not being better updated. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has 
already fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr N £200 if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman