DRN-1708667
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance (Lloyds) has cancelled the property 
insurance policies he had with them. And he is dissatisfied they havent provided settlement 
for a claim he made under his home insurance policy  before it was cancelled.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr C made a claim under his home insurance policy. He explained he had 
entered his dining room, to discover that a large part of the ceiling had fallen in, causing a 
hole in the ceiling and a large amount of debris within the room. On calling Lloyds to make 
the claim, Mr C was told the loss wouldnt be covered. Lloyds said there was no insured peril 
under the policy that Mr Cs claim would fall under  and the damage was as a result of wear 
and tear.
Mr C didnt agree this was fair and queried it with Lloyds. Lloyds looked into the matter again 
and sent a representative to the property to discuss and review the matter with Mr C and his 
son. The decline of the claim was maintained. 
Lloyds also asked further questions to Mr C, in relation to whether his property was being 
used as a guest house. And in relation to the number of bedrooms and bathrooms at the 
property. Mr C confirmed it wasnt being used as a guest house, and that it had 8 bedroom 
and 5 bathrooms (which included two shower rooms). 
Based on this information, and on looking at Mr Cs policy, it noted that it shouldnt have 
offered a policy to Mr C in the first place. It said it couldnt insure the property, because of 
the number of bedrooms it had. Lloyds noted it should have picked this up when the policy 
was initially being purchased. So, it apologised for this, cancelled the policy, and provided Mr 
C with a refund of the premiums he had paid. At this time Lloyds realised Mr C had another 
policy for the property with it, so it cancelled that one too (with a refund of premiums being 
provided).
Mr C didnt agree with Lloyds actions. He said it was unfair for it to cancel the policy, and it 
had left him without cover, before he realised the policy had been cancelled. He felt the 
questions Lloyds had asked him were harassing him, and that Lloyds should still be dealing 
with his claim. Because Mr C remained concerned, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Lloyds had provided 
evidence that it shouldnt have insured Mr Cs property. She felt on that basis it was 
reasonable for it to cancel the policies, and return the premiums to Mr C. She recognised it 
was Lloyds mistake in allowing the policies to be purchased in the first place  and said the 
compensation offered to him - £250 was fair. As was £25 paid to him for being put on hold 
by Lloyds whilst on the phone.
Mr C didnt agree with this. He highlighted he still felt his claim should have been paid. And 
that he had been treated poorly by Lloyds  at a time that was already very difficult for him.Because Mr C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, Im not requiring Lloyds to do 
anything more than it already has. Ive explained why below.
In the first instance, Ive considered whether Lloyds acted fairly in cancelling Mr Cs policies. 
Lloyds has said it made a mistake when the policies were taken out. And that it shouldnt 
have offered cover to Mr C, given the number of bedrooms at the property. So, it has 
accepted it made a mistake in this respect. Ive seen evidence from Lloyds, which confirms it 
wouldnt have been able to offer cover. So, I agree it seems a mistake was made by Lloyds 
here.
Because Lloyds wouldnt have offered cover to Mr C, it has cancelled the policies. I can 
understand why Mr C is unhappy with this. But Lloyds is able to decide what risks it wants to 
cover. And as it wasnt willing to cover this type of risk, I think it was fair it cancelled the 
policies when this was realised. Mr C has been put back in the position he would have been 
in, had he been declined cover at the start. Lloyds has confirmed it has not recorded the 
cancellation on any external databases, and it has refunded the premiums Mr C paid to it, 
along with 8% interest simple per annum on the premiums  to take into account the fact he 
has been without these funds. So, Im satisfied it has acted reasonably to make sure Mr C 
didnt lose out by its mistake.
Lloyds also offered Mr C an amount of £250 to apologise for setting up policies when it 
shouldnt have done, and the distress this has caused. And it paid £25 to Mr C, to 
compensate him for time he was on hold whilst on the phone. Ive thought about whether I 
think this is fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C. 
Mr C has explained he was distressed to find he didnt have cover, and that his policy had 
been cancelled. I can appreciate why this distressed Mr C, and can understand it added to 
his upset, at what was already a personally difficult time for him. So, I think it was right for 
Lloyds to offer compensation, to apologise for the impact its mistake caused to him. And Im 
satisfied its compensation of £250 was fair to recognise this impact. Mr C didnt suffer any 
further losses whilst not being on cover, but its clear the whole situation was stressful and 
upsetting for him.
As above, Mr C had contacted Lloyds about the damage caused by the dining room ceiling 
falling, before his policies had been cancelled. And he does still feel the costs to put this 
problem right should have been paid by Lloyds. Ive considered this carefully  because Mr 
C thought he was correctly insured with it, at the time the loss happened. So, he didnt have 
the opportunity to get cover with another insurer.
But I dont think Lloyds mistake in respect of the incorrect policies has caused Mr C a further 
loss here. I say this because I think its unlikely this claim would have been paid by another 
insurer either.  For the claim to be covered, the damage would need to have been caused by 
an insured event  so for example a storm, fire or escape of water. Something that would 
have been listed in the policy. But the comments from the representative who attended the 
property, and the photos of the damage, dont suggest there was any external, generally 
listed peril that caused the ceiling to fall. Instead, the evidence shows the ceiling fell away, 
as it was a lathe and plaster ceiling, that had de-bonded over time. Because of this, I dont think Mr C would have received a settlement elsewhere. And therefore, Im satisfied Lloyds 
doesnt need to compensate Mr C for the damage here.
Mr C has explained he felt harassed by Lloyds, in respect of the questions it asked. And 
when he went back to question the claims decline, his policy was then cancelled. But, Lloyds 
in entitled to ask questions following a loss, to establish details in relation to the claim, and 
the cover it is providing. So, I dont think the questions it asked were unfair  particularly 
because there were discrepancies in respect of the number of bedrooms and bathrooms at 
the property. So, Im not requiring Lloyds to do anything further in this respect.
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited settlement of the below is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstance;
repayment of the premiums paid; 
8% interest simple per annum;
payment of the £25 and the offer of £250 compensation. 
 
Its my understanding that the above has been paid. But if hasnt Lloyds hasnt done this 
already, it should do so within 28 days of this decision being accepted. And it if doesnt do 
so, it should pay 8% interest, simple per annum on the above costs.
If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited consider that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim this 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman