DRN-2834621
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it 
increased her credit limit. Ms P also complains about the service Barclays provided when 
she asked for assistance. 
What happened
In November 2018 Barclaycard wrote to Ms P as it had approved a credit limit increase from 
£11,250 to £14,250. The credit limit increase took effect the following month. 
In September 2020 Ms P complained that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly. Ms P also told 
Barclaycard she was struggling to meet the monthly payments. 
Ms P spoke with Barclaycard at the beginning of November 2020. Ms P has explained she 
wanted to discuss options for reducing her payments but was concerned about the impact 
on her credit file. Ms P has told us that the call handler she spoke to was unhelpful and rude.
Barclaycard responded to Ms Ps complaint but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Ms P 
referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclaycard had dealt with Ms Ps complaint fairly. Ms P asked to appeal so her complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms Ps complaint falls broadly into two parts Ill look at whether Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly first and then at how it treated her when she asked for help. 
Ms P has told us Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it increased her credit limit from 
£11,250 to £14,250. Before a lender agrees to provide credit it should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure the repayments are affordable and sustainable for the 
borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But the regulations say 
businesses should take factors like the type of credit, the term, the amount of borrowing and 
what they know about the consumer into account. Where a business sees signs of potential 
financial difficulties or affordability issues it should consider whether further information 
should be obtained. Ive looked at the information Barclaycard took into account when it 
increased Ms Ps credit limit. 
Barclaycard has provided copies of Ms Ps statements, along with the lending checks it 
carried out. The statements show Ms Ps account was handled in line with the terms. There 
was regular spending on the credit card and payments were made on time. In the months 
before Ms Ps credit limit was increased she made substantial payments to reduce the 
balance. I havent seen any obvious signs from the statements that Ms P was struggling 
before the limit went up. 
Barclaycard has also provided evidence of its lending checks. I can see it looked at how 
Ms P was managing her Barclaycard as well as other credit, including whether she had any 
arrears or adverse information on her credit file. Barclaycards lending criteria indicated 
Ms Ps increase was affordable based on the information it had available. I havent found 
anything in the information Barclaycard had at hand that suggests Ms P was struggling 
financially before her credit limit went up. And the credit limit was applied in line with 
Barclaycards lending criteria. I havent found Barclaycard lent irresponsibly in this case. 
Ms P explains that her financial situation changed and she contacted Barclaycard for help in 
November 2020. Ms P has explained she wanted to reduce her monthly payment but was 
concerned about how that would affect her credit file. I understand why Ms P was concerned 
about the potential impact to her credit file. But lenders have to accurately report how credit 
commitments are maintained. If Barclaycard applied an arrangement, payment holiday, 
reduced payment plan or provided other assistance that fell outside the normal terms, I think 
its reasonable that would be reflected on Ms Ps credit file. 
Ms P has told us the call she had with Barclaycard to discuss her situation in November 
2020 was poorly handled and that the call handler was rude. As our investigator has said, 
theres no call recording available to listen to but I dont doubt that Ms P found the call 
upsetting. I appreciate Ms P says the call handler was unhelpful, but I think that likely reflects 
the lack of options available to provide assistance without impacting her credit file. I dont 
doubt that the call was difficult, but I think that in part reflects the nature of the conversation. 
Ms P has told us she was placed on hold then the call was lost. Barclaycards contact notes 
show the call was disconnected so a task to call Ms P back the following day was arranged. I 
can see Ms P went on to discuss her complaint with Barclaycard the next day. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms P as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But, for 
the reasons Ive given above, I havent found that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly in this case. 
And whilst I understand the call Ms P had with Barclaycard was upsetting, I havent found 
she was treated unfairly or failed to offer options to assist her. As I havent found 
Barclaycard lent irresponsibly or treated Ms P unfairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman