DRN-3045876
The complaint
Mrs C complained, on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr C, her late husband, that they 
were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
Mrs C told us that she and Mr C took out the PPI in 1993. She said they applied for a 
mortgage during a meeting in a branch of Santander, and were advised to take the PPI at 
the same time  and indeed werent given a clear choice about taking it. Mrs C also said 
that Mr C had had health problems prior to the sale, and she told us about a claim on the 
policy being declined. Santander agreed that it recommended the PPI but could not 
confirm the sales channel or find details of the mortgage, or a claim, in its records.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr C at a monthly 
cost of £34.75. Santander said it couldnt confirm the monthly benefit, but based on 
example figures in a PPI leaflet it provided, I think it was probably £500. If Mr C had made 
a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 36 months per claim for accident 
or sickness, and 12 months per claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs C disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I agreed with our adjudicator, but, as further information had 
been provided since the adjudicator issued his view, I wanted to explain my reasons in more 
detail and give both parties an opportunity to provide any further evidence theyd like me to 
consider. Mrs C said she didnt have anything further to add, and Santander didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
This is a difficult case to decide as I have no documents from the point of sale other than 
copies of a mortgage quote provided by Mrs C, and a PPI leaflet that both parties sent in. 
Santander provided a copy of a computer record to show that it had no details of a 
mortgage in 1993  only a later mortgage taken out in 1998. It also sent in a note from the 
underwriter of the policy showing details of premiums paid from 1993 to 1998. Mrs C sent 
in various documents, most of which related to later mortgages, but which did include a 
letter relating to the redemption of a mortgage in 1998.
As I stated above, Santander said that it could not trace a mortgage account taken out by 
Mr and Mrs C in 1993. This is not entirely surprising, as this was 28 years ago, and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. However, Mrs C sent in a 
mortgage quote dated August 1993, relating to an interest-only mortgage of £60,450, and I 
can see that PPI was included on the quote. The monthly cost was shown as £35.45, and 
the benefit was £510  close to that of the cover eventually taken.
The letter about the redemption of a mortgage in 1998 shows a similar amount 
outstanding to that shown on the quote - as I would expect with an interest-only mortgage. 
So based on the content of the quote and the redemption letter, it seems likely that this is 
the mortgage that Mr and Mrs C took out in 1993 and which was covered by the PPI.
Mrs C said that the PPI was sold during a meeting, and Ive no reason to doubt that  
indeed the quote Mrs C sent in indicates that that was the case.
I accept that I cant know how the adviser presented the PPI during the meeting. Looking 
at the limited documentation, I only have one page of the mortgage quote (it refers to 
there being seven pages), but theres nothing on there or the PPI booklet that suggests 
the PPI was compulsory  the quote just sets out the cost of various products, which 
would not be unusual.
Mrs C said the adviser implied that she and Mr C had to take the PPI in order to get the 
mortgage. She further said she believed they were sold PPI to make sure they got a 
mortgage offer because of changes in the industry in which Mr C worked, and 
uncertainty about the future.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs C said. However, Ive also kept in mind that the 
mortgage application meeting took place 28 years ago, and its possible that Mrs C has 
misremembered the advice that they should have PPI as a requirement that they had to 
take it. And I think its reasonable for the adviser to have considered potential uncertainty in 
Mr Cs job as part of the advice process.
Taking all the evidence into account, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that the 
PPI was presented as compulsory, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the 
complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened.
As Santander recommended the PPI policy for Mr C (the insured), it shouldve made sure 
it was suitable for him. My view is that it was a reasonable recommendation to make, for 
the reasons set out below.
As Ive said, I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. I dont have the full policy terms and conditions, but the leaflet states that the 
policy excludes claims relating to Recurrence of any disability or illness for which you 
sought medical advice in the 2 year period immediately prior to the start of your cover. Mrs 
C said that Mr C had had back problems and depression, but she wasnt able to tell us 
when these had occurred  and if Mr C had not sought medical advice for these issues 
between 1991 and 1993, it looks as though he wouldve been able to claim.
More recently, Mrs C sent in a letter about an accident Mr C had had at work in 2012. 
This referred to Mr C having had a degenerative back condition that would have pre-
dated the accident. But it does not indicate when this condition started, so I cant fairly 
conclude from this letter that Mr C had had this condition in 1993, when he took out the 
PPI. I said in my provisional decision that if Mrs C could provide any further evidence on 
this point I would look at this again. However, Mrs C did not send in anything further. Mrs C also told us about a claim on the policy being declined in 1998. But its not clear 
whether this claim related to sickness or unemployment. Santander has a record of a 
conversation with Mrs C in 2019, where she said it was declined because Mr C was out of 
work for less than the qualifying period in the policy (which the underwriter said was eight 
weeks). Mrs C later said she had confused this claim with a different one on a loan, and 
she thought the claim was declined because Mr C had a pre-existing health condition. 
However, Mrs C hasnt kept any records, and Santander has no record of any claim. In the 
absence of any information, I cant draw any conclusions about what may have happened. 
Again, I said in my provisional decision that if either party could provide any evidence 
about the claim, I would look at this issue again. But I havent received any further 
evidence or information, other than confirmation from Santander that the underwriter has 
no details of the claim. 
Turning to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale, Mrs C couldnt remember 
how much sick pay Mr C wouldve been entitled to. But she said she wouldve been entitled 
to 12 months sick pay from her employer (although I dont think this is likely to have been 
at her full pay rate throughout). Mrs C also said that she and Mr C had had savings 
equivalent to between three and six months pay. However, I think they couldve found it 
difficult to meet the mortgage payments if Mr C (the insured) had been off work for any 
length of time, and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to three years in 
the event of a claim for accident or sickness  much longer than sick pay would usually be 
paid for. And it wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs C to use their savings for their everyday living 
expenses. I also think Mr and Mrs C could reasonably have wanted to protect an important 
commitment that was secured on their home.
So for the reasons stated above, I think it was reasonable for Santander to have 
recommended the PPI in this case.
Ive also thought about the information Mr and Mrs C might have been given about the 
policy. As Ive said, I only have the quote and the PPI leaflet, but the approximate cost was 
on the quote, and Ive no evidence it was unaffordable for them. And the leaflet gave a 
broad outline of the cover.
I appreciate that Mrs C feels strongly about this, but overall, although I cant know whether 
Santander clearly explained all of the policy details, I think Mr and Mrs C would still have 
bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if Mr C hadnt been able to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. In my provisional decision I said that 
this meant I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. As neither party sent in any new information in 
response to my provisional decision, my conclusions remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C on behalf of 
herself and the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman