DRN-3726846
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain about National House-Building Councils (NHBC) handling of two 
claims made under their buildings warranty policy.
As Mr P has been the main contact for this complaint, Ill refer to him. Any references to 
NHBC include its agents.
What happened
Mr P says theyve made two claims to NHBC. Ive set these out below:
The first related to some coping stones at the front of the property which crumbled 
and were repaired in 2012. Mr P says a damp course should have been installed 
under the coping stones, but he wasnt provided with proof this had been installed or 
with a repair certificate. Hes concerned the damp course wasnt installed as hes 
seen water ingress below where the damp course should be.
The second claim was raised in 2017 regarding a cracking in the render at the rear of 
the house and damp patches that occurred. Repairs were carried out, but Mr P says 
the damp patch returned. 
Unhappy with NHBCs handling of the claims, Mr P made a formal complaint. NHBC issued 
its final response in September 2021. It said for the first claim, NHBC would have been 
responsible for the repair for six years from the point of completion. It was satisfied, following 
a claims investigators visit in April 2021, that while there was an open joint between the 
edge and one coping stone, this appeared to have occurred due to normal movement and 
there wasnt any visible staining. NHBC considered lack of water ingress indicated there was 
a damp course under the coping stone. And given the time that had passed since the repair 
was carried out in 2012 and that the warranty had expired in 2013, it wasnt intending to take 
any action with regard to this claim.
NHBC also responded to the second claim Mr P raised, in relation to the render at the rear of 
the property. It said there was no sign of the render breaking down, and while there had 
been repairs carried out in this area, the damp patches alone werent an indication the repair 
had failed. NHBC said it wouldnt take any further action on either claim.
Unhappy with the response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. Shortly after this, 
NHBC reconsidered its position. It offered to make a payment to Mr P to repaint the render 
at the rear of the property to reduce the volume of moisture held. This was considered by 
one of our investigators who said she thought the revised offer in respect of the render at the 
rear of the property was fair and reasonable, but NHBC didnt need to take any further action 
in respect of the render at the front of the property. As Mr P didnt agree, this matter has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has subsequently confirmed he and Mrs P would like to accept the revised offer made 
by NHBC in respect of the render at the rear of their home. As this part of their complaint is 
settled, Ive only considered the claim about the front of the property. In reaching my 
decision, while Ive considered all the submissions, Ive focused on those issues I consider 
most relevant to the outcome. This isnt intended to be a discourtesy, but a reflection of our 
informal nature. 
Mr P is concerned that because he wasnt provided with a repair certificate, he cant be 
certain the scheduled repairs carried out in 2012 included the reinstatement of the damp 
course. I can understand why being issued with a repair certificate might have gone some 
way to reassuring Mr P what repairs had been carried out. 
As the repair certificate isnt available, Ive considered what NHBC says was detailed in the 
schedule of works for the repairs carried out in 2012. This said:
Take off existing reconstituted stone coping up to 150mm deep and replace with 
new; including reinstating horizontal damp proof course 
I need to decide if NHBCs responses to Mr Ps concerns was reasonable. And I think they 
were. Ill set out why below.
Mr P says NHBC should evidence the damp course was correctly reinstated as part of the 
repairs. Mr P asked this in response to NHBCs assurances the repairs were carried out as 
expected. NHBC clarified it doesnt expect contractors to evidence the repairs carried out by 
way of photographs, as Mr P suggested. I consider NHBCs position here to be reasonable. I 
wouldnt usually expect to see repairs evidenced as being complete by way of photographs. 
And while I appreciate Mr P would like more detailed information about how the damp 
course was reinstated during the repairs in 2012, I dont consider NHBC is required to 
provide this in the level of detail he would like. Im satisfied, based on the information Ive 
seen, that the schedule of works set out how the repair would be carried out.
I note Mr P also wanted NHBC to confirm the damp course had been installed in one piece 
across the length of the elevation  but this wasnt what the schedule of works required from 
the repair. The schedule of works set out what was required was to reinstate the damp 
course. There isnt any evidence to show there was a specific requirement for it to be 
reinstated in one piece, or that a failure to do so meant the repair was defective.
I understand Mr P is relying on guidance he received from a builder who suggested the 
damp course hadnt been installed in the same way for the front and rear elevations. Despite 
Mr Ps suggestion this is not in line with NHBC guidelines, Ive been unable to find anything 
in the Buildmark terms and conditions that defines this as a defect. And I havent seen any 
evidence which definitively shows the damp course was installed differently between the 
front and rear elevation.  
Ive also considered the inspection report provided by NHBC from April 2021. I find the 
overall conclusion the initial repair didnt fail to be persuasive. This was because there hadnt 
been a carried out where the damp patches are on the front render. However, I note while 
the warranty expired in 2013, and NHBC guaranteed the repair for a further six years from 
the point of completion, I still dont consider the photographs, and personal account provided 
by Mr P to be more persuasive than the report provided by NHBC. I say this because none 
of the information provided by Mr P is persuasive enough for me to say with any certainty 
there was a defect with the repair that has gone on to cause the damp patches. And I think it more likely than not that, if there was a defect with the repair, it would likely have presented 
itself soon after the repairs were complete, not several years after. 
Overall, having considered the information provided, Im more persuaded by the account of 
the repairs provided by NHBC included the reinstatement of the damp course. While there 
are some damp patches on the render, these arent conclusive evidence showing with any 
certainty the repair carried out in 2012 failed. Im minded to conclude NHBC has not acted 
unfairly in declining this claim. It follows, Im not going to require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman