DRN-1800249
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos hasnt 
refunded her the amount she paid for an item that she returned.
What happened
Mrs T has a credit account with Argos. She bought two items in June 2019 under the terms 
of a 12 month Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) plan - an upright vacuum cleaner costing £199.99 
and a handheld vacuum cleaner costing £99.99. She says that after a couple of weeks the 
handle on the upright vacuum cleaner broke and she arranged for Argos to send a 
replacement. However, the replacement then broke as well. Mrs T says that she contacted 
Argos and it was agreed she could have a refund on her order. Mrs T says that although she 
returned both of the items she ordered - and these were collected by Argos - she only 
received a refund for the handheld vacuum cleaner (£99.99). Mrs T chased the refund of the 
£199.99 and says that Argos said it had no record of this item being returned.
Argos issued a final response letter. It said that a refund was actioned on 15 August 209 for 
£99.99 and posted to Mrs Ts account on 18 August 2019. It says that it has no evidence 
that Mrs T returned the other item she had mentioned and so it wouldnt be providing a 
refund for that. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that in August 2019, Mrs T received a refund 
for the handheld vacuum and an email confirming that both the handheld and upright 
vacuum cleaners were collected. He said that Mrs T had mentioned there were issues 
scanning the upright vacuum. He thought the evidence supported Mrs Ts claim that the 
upright vacuum was returned. Because of this he said Mrs T should be refunded the amount 
she paid for the upright vacuum £199.99.
Our investigator also thought this issue had caused Mrs T stress and worry and 
recommended that Argos pay her £100 as compensation for this. 
Argos didnt accept our investigators view. It initially said there was no record of the 
collection of the upright vacuum. It then asked for confirmation that a separate payment was 
taken for the replacement vacuum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T placed an order in June 2019 for two items  an upright vacuum cleaner and a 
handheld vacuum cleaner. These items were charged to her BNPL account. Mrs T 
experienced an issue with the upright vacuum cleaner and the original upright vacuum 
cleaner was collected in July and a replacement provided. At this time there is no evidence 
that a refund was applied to Mrs Ts account and as a replacement item was provided I 
wouldnt have expected a refund at this time. 
Mrs T experienced further issues and decided to return both the vacuums she had acquired. 
I have seen an email from Argos dated 15 August 2019 confirming that collection of the 
handheld vacuum will take place on 16 August. There is also an email from this date 
referring to the collection of the upright vacuum cleaner.
A further email was sent by Argos to Mrs T dated 16 August saying that two items had been 
returned  the handheld and upright vacuum cleaners. It lists the prices of the items, but the 
total refund amount is recorded as £99.99. This amount was refunded to Mrs Ts account.
At the same time as returning the vacuum cleaners, Mrs T bought a new vacuum cleaner  a 
different brand - from Argos. This further supports Mrs Ts testimony that she had 
experienced issues with the upright vacuum cleaner and therefore returned it. 
Argos says that the replacement upright vacuum wasnt returned. However, having 
considered the evidence, particularly the return receipt email, I find it more likely than not 
that this item was returned at the same time as the handheld vacuum. While this was a 
replacement for the original item ordered, no refund had been provided at the time of 
replacement and so a refund shouldve been made when this replacement was returned. 
Therefore, I find it fair that Argos now refunds this item and amends Mrs Ts account to 
reflect this return as if it happened in August 2019. 
Mrs T had to spend time trying to understand why the refund wasnt applied. Evidence has 
been provided of chats where this issue was discussed in September 2019. The chats say 
that a refund will be applied but this didnt happen. Given the inconvenience and upset this 
issue has caused I agree with our investigator that Argos should pay Mrs T £100 
compensation.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs T Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as 
Argos should issue a full refund for the upright vacuum cleaner (£199.99) and apply this to 
her account to reflect it being returned in August 2019. It should also pay Mrs T £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience this issue has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services Limited 
should take the action set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman