DRN-4256444
The complaint
Mr H has complained that that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unreasonably 
refused to pay his claim to repair his car under his motor policy. 
What happened
Mr H said that in January 2023, his car experienced a complete function shutdown. It was 
taken to a main dealer for investigation and Mr H made a claim to LV. 
Following the reports from Mr Hs main dealer LV was of the view that the issues with Mr Hs 
car werent covered by its policy as they concerned mechanical breakdown issues of a wear 
and tear nature. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think LV 
had done anything wrong in refusing to pay Mr Hs claim. Mr H disagreed so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Motor policies including the one provided by LV provide cover to repair a car in strictly 
defined circumstances. 
In Mr Hs policy it defines wear and tear as unavoidable damage caused by general use 
over time. 
 
Under section 1 Damage to your car it details the scenarios in which a claim might be made 
for damage. This clearly states the following: 
If your car and/or its accessories are damaged by accident or vandalism (even in 
your garage) we'll either:
 pay for it to be repaired; or
 replace what's damaged; or
 pay the market value of your car if it's a total loss (and when we've agreed this with 
you, your car will become our property).
Under section 2 Fire and Theft, it says the following:
 
If your car and/or its accessories (even in your garage) are lost or damaged by fire, 
lightning, explosion, theft, or attempted theft, we'll either:
 pay for it to be repaired; or
 replace what's lost or damaged; or
 pay the market value of your car if it's a total loss (and when we've agreed this with 
you, your car will become our property).
There is no evidence that Mr Hs car was damaged by accident, vandalism, fire, or theft. The 
evidence is that his car wouldnt start or function due to water ingress from a damaged or 
perished windscreen washer pipe. Therefore, if the reason for Mr Hs car not working isnt 
something that is insured by LVs policy  called an insured peril - LV has no obligation to 
pay Mr Hs claim. Consequently, I consider LV has done nothing wrong in refusing to pay Mr 
Hs claim. Insurance policies do not cover every eventuality and all insurers are perfectly 
entitled to decide which risks they wish to cover and which they dont.
 
Theres no issue or question about what maintenance or not Mr H carried out on his car as 
thats largely irrelevant for the purposes of this complaint. Generally, it is for Mr H to prove 
his claim was something that was covered by his policy and in this instance I consider his 
claim wasnt an incidence of the type covered by this policy and wouldnt generally be 
covered by any other motor policy either. 
LV was commendable in trying to get further information from Mr Hs garage too, but none 
was forthcoming. There was some talk that possibly a windscreen replacement which was 
previously covered by LV might have caused the damage to the windscreen washer pipe, 
but Mr Hs garage was unable to provide any further information on that. Consequently, 
without such evidence there is nothing to show me that this would be at all material to the 
matter. Generally, such things like water or fuel pipes splitting, lightbulbs needing replacing, 
brake pads requiring replacing etc are all issues that arent covered by these motor policies 
which are required by law to insure ones car.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman