DRN-3467250
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with several aspects of the service that shes received from Nationwide 
Building Society regarding her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs T noticed some transactions on her Nationwide credit account that she hadnt 
authorised, and she wasnt happy with the service that she received from Nationwide when 
she telephoned them about these transactions.
Additionally, Mrs T was waiting for a replacement credit card to be delivered to her in the 
post. When the card didnt arrive as promised, Mrs T contacted Nationwide and was given 
conflicting information as to when it would arrive. Then, when the card did arrive, Mrs T 
found that she wasnt able to use it. Mrs T wasnt happy about either of these points, so she 
raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs Ts complaint. They confirmed that the disputed transaction 
amounts had been reimbursed to Mrs Ts account, and the noted that because the 
replacement debit card had taken longer to arrive with Mrs T than anticipated that it had 
been cancelled as there was a worry it might have been lost in the post, and that this was 
why it hadnt worked when Mrs T did eventually receive it. As such, Nationwide didnt feel 
that theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs T, although they did offer to make a payment of £25 to 
Mrs as a good will gesture for any trouble or upset that may have been incurred.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Nationwide had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs T, and so they also didnt uphold 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that there Mrs T has several points above and beyond those 
described in the preceding section above. However, this service can only consider a point of 
complaint that the respondent business  in this case Nationwide  has already had the 
opportunity to consider and respond to.
In this instance, having reviewed the communication between Mrs T and Nationwide, 
including Nationwides complaint response letter to Mrs T, its clear that only the points of 
complaint that Ive detailed in the section above meet the criteria needed for me to be able to 
consider those complaint points here. As such, the above described points are the only 
aspects of Mrs Ts wider complaint that Im able to consider in this instance. 
If Mrs T wishes to pursue those other aspects of her wider complaint that Im unable to 
consider here, then Mrs T would need to raise these further points of complaint with 
Nationwide directly, allowing Nationwide the opportunity to consider them and respond.
In regard to the unauthorised transactions that Mrs T noticed on her account, Im aware that 
some of these refer to overpayments. Nationwide have confirmed that these overpayment 
amounts have been refunded to Mrs Ts account already  either by the merchant or by 
Nationwide  so that Mrs T hasnt incurred any lasting financial detriment here and so that 
no further action is required.
I also understand that Mrs T feels that Nationwide have allowed some recurring transactions 
to continue that had been set up using details from old credit cards which have since been 
replaced and which Mrs T believes should mean that the recurring transactions using those 
card details should no longer be valid.
I can appreciate Mrs Ts position here, but recurring card transactions are usually structured 
to take account of replacement credit or debit cards so that those transactions arent affected 
in the way that Mrs T suggests here. As such, if Mrs T is still in the position whereby she 
wishes to cancel any continuing recurring transaction arrangements, I can only encourage 
her to speak with Nationwide about this so as to confirm whether or not Mrs T would need to 
cancel those recurring transactions with the relevant merchants directly.
In regard to the issues surrounding the replacement credit card, Im satisfied that it was the 
case that the replacement credit card that was on route to Mrs T was cancelled while it was 
still in the post following Mrs T contacting Nationwide about it not having been delivered to 
her on time.
This is unfortunate, and I can appreciate how it would be frustrating for Mrs T, but I dont feel 
that Nationwide have acted unfairly here. And I say this because the reason Nationwide 
cancelled the card was because of concerns that it may have been lost in the post, and as 
such the card was cancelled to protect Mrs T against the possibility of the card being used 
by any unauthorised persons who may have come into contact with it.
Finally, Mrs T also referenced in her complaint that an incorrect telephone number had been 
supplied by Nationwide in a letter she received from them. This point was addressed by our 
investigator in their view of this complaint, and I can also confirm that the telephone number 
given in the letter in question is correct and does lead to an appropriate Nationwide team.
All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mrs T in regard to the specific aspects of her wider complaint that Ive been able to 
consider here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs T was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman