DRN-3629589
The complaint
Mr H complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
(Fairmead) handling of his home insurance claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Any reference to Fairmead includes its respective agents or contractors.
In August 2020, Mr H made a claim on his home insurance policy for damage to his 
underground drains/pipes. 
The damage to the property included wet and dry rot, which isnt covered under the 
policy. However, as it couldnt be determined when the rot started, Fairmead agreed 
to cover the damage.
During the works some of the flooring had to be replaced. As there was no door bar 
from one of the rooms with damage the flooring had to be extended into an 
unaffected room - the converted garage used as a sitting room. This room wasnt 
affected by the original leak so wasnt part of the schedule of works but when 
replacing the floor Fairmead found rising damp. It determined the issue to be the 
damp proof membrane hadnt been installed correctly when the garage was 
converted and said this wasnt covered by the policy (uninsured works). 
Fairmead have offered two options to Mr H to move things forward:
ocash settle the claim in line with the policy cover for the insured works; or
oMr H can get the uninsured works done privately addressing all rising damp 
issues. Following completion of the works, Fairmead would arrange for its 
contractor to return to complete the insured works.
Mr H wants the alternative accommodation (AA) to continue during this time as he 
felt his home wasnt safe to live in until the decoration and final works were 
completed in full. 
Fairmead agreed to ensure the home was safe to return to and explained that the 
policy limit had been reached for AA.  It agreed there had been a lack of 
communication and some unnecessary delays in progressing the claim and offered 
£350 compensation. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint she felt that due to some avoidable delays 
Fairmead should make an overpayment of £2,314.90 on the AA and increased the 
compensation to £600 to reflect the impact on Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint in September 2021. But agreed for 
our investigator to look at what had happened up to the point of her issuing her view as 
things had progressed. I understand Mr H has since raised some additional issues regarding 
outstanding works and Fairmead are arranging a site meeting to address these and ensure 
theyve been cash settled. I will therefore not be addressing these issues in this decision.
I can see a lot has happened during the life of this claim. But within this decision I wont be 
responding to every specific point. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the 
complaint to be which means I will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the 
decision I need to make.
Inherent damp issue - rising damp
Works started in May 2021 but stopped in August 2021. As Fairmead discovered there was 
an inherent damp issue in the sitting room  the converted garage, that is not covered under 
the policy. Mr H feels the damp issue should be covered and provided a report. Ive 
considered both reports on the damp issue and although the experts opinion differ on 
causation, both indicate this is do with the conversion of the garage and it is therefore a pre-
existing damp issue not related to the claim. I am therefore satisfied that this damage is 
uninsured and not covered by the policy. 
In September 2021, Fairmead made Mr H aware that he would be responsible for rectifying 
the inherent damp issue and gave Mr H the options of a cash settlement for the remaining 
insured works or it would come back to complete the insured works once this damp issue 
had been put right. Im satisfied these options were fair in the circumstances of this case.
Mr H feels that the damp issue shouldve been found earlier in the claim process. I can 
appreciate his point on this, but I can also understand the reasons Fairmead have given to 
why it became apparent at a later stage in the claim. However, even if I accepted what Mr H 
says in that it shouldve been picked up sooner, Im not persuaded this wouldve made an 
overall impact on the claim. I say this because when the damp issue became apparent Mr H 
didnt accept it and he didnt arrange for the works to be carried out to rectify the issue. So, 
Im satisfied that a stalemate with Fairmead wouldve just happened sooner than it did. 
Alternative accommodation (AA)
Mr H wants Fairmead to pay for the entire time he has stayed in AA or at the very minimum 
up until February 2022 when the property was declared habitable.
As mentioned above all works stopped in August 2021 due to the inherent damp issue, and 
as Fairmead couldnt continue with the works until this was rectified it ultimately cash settled 
for the remaining works. 
However, the AA policy limit has been reached and Mr H has received all payments up to
the limit. 
But Mr H has said his home wasnt safe to return to with young children and an elderly 
parent due to sharp edges, nails protruding, staples in floor etc and said the property was 
uninhabitable. Fairmead disagreed that the home was uninhabitable but agreed to carry out these snagging works to make Mr Hs family return more comfortable. Although I appreciate 
living in a home with unfinished works can be challenging with the snagging issues, I agree it 
didnt make the property uninhabitable.
However, Fairmead accepted that it had caused some delays in the claim and agreed to our 
investigators recommendation to make an overpayment for the AA which Im satisfied is fair 
in the circumstances. I appreciate this overpayment doesnt cover the whole period Mr H has 
been in AA, but I have also taken into account that Mr H caused some delays as well. For 
example, he took nearly two months to make his material choices. Also, Mr H has known 
since September 2021 that he would need to rectify the inherent damp issue, but these 
works were not carried out and have only recently started so Mr H has not mitigated his 
losses. So, I cant hold Fairmead responsible for all the delays and I wouldnt expect it to 
cover AA for getting uninsured works done. Im therefore not persuaded that it needs to pay 
any more than the agreed AA overpayment of £2,314.90.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
With a claim of this nature there will be always be a degree of inconvenience and 
disturbance. I appreciate Mr H has said this has affected his mental health with the worry of 
it all and caused a strain on finances. Fairmead hasnt disputed that there has been a lack of 
communication and some unnecessary delays in progressing the claim and offered £350 
compensation in its final response letter dated 23 September 2021. Although I can see at 
times the claim stalled or work went beyond the planned schedule this wasnt always 
avoidable. However, Im persuaded that works started later than they shouldve, and 
communication couldve been better at times. I agree with our investigator that the 
compensation should be increased by a further £250 and instruct Fairmead to pay in total 
£600 compensation.
Putting things right
I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General to do the following:
Pay an additional AA overpayment of £2,314.90
Pay an additional £250 compensation to the £350 already offered - £600 in total. 
Fairmead must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman