DRN-1631700
 
The complaint
Mr R is upset with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) who wont return the funds he sent to a 
third party in error. 
What happened
Mr R made two online payments totalling around £5,750 on consecutive days to a Barclays 
account that the intended recipient no longer used. The account had been closed and the 
details had been recycled by Barclays nearly six years later. 
When the error was discovered, Barclays made attempts to recover the funds by recalling 
them. But the recipient had already transferred the sums out of the account, by the time 
Barclays requested them. So, only a small amount was recovered by Barclays. Barclays 
hasnt been successful in its contact with the payment recipient since.  
Mr R was unhappy that Barclays didnt return the funds or disclose what efforts it took to 
recover the funds. Mr R also wanted Barclays to reveal details of the person who received 
the funds. Mr R did admit that it was his error that the funds were sent to the wrong account, 
but he referred his complaint that Barclays wouldnt return the funds or reveal the identity of 
the recipient, to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She concluded that Barclays hadnt been at 
fault and it had done everything that it could to recover the money. She also said that 
Barclays couldnt reveal the third partys details as this would be a breach of the relevant 
data protection rules.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Data Protection
Barclays are required to follow data protection rules. These regulations mean that Barclays 
arent at liberty to disclose the personal details of a payment recipient as it would fall foul of 
those rules. So I can understand why Barclays refused to disclose this information and I 
dont agree that it acted unreasonably by not disclosing the information. 
The evidence shows, that Barclays took steps to contact the third party in order to retrieve 
the money. Unfortunately, this was largely unsuccessful as the third party didnt engage with 
Barclays and had already transferred the money out of the account. This resulted in Barclays 
only recovering a small amount of money, which it refunded to Mr R. I realise what a 
disappointment this will have been to Mr R  but that is all that Barclays could do and Im 
satisfied it did as much as it could to help Mr R here.
The payments 
I can see that Mr R made two payments on consecutive days to the wrong bank account. 
The payments totalled around £5,750 and it seemed that the funds were withdrawn almost 
immediately by the payment recipient. Mr R admitted that it was his error and that he didnt 
check the details. Mr Rs issue is that Barclays shouldnt be using dormant accounts. 
Although we cant comment on how a financial institution runs its business, we can look at 
whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of a complaint. Barclays 
admit that its standard procedure is that dormant accounts (after they have been shut for a 
period) are recycled and the account number and sort code are used again. Thats a 
procedure its entitled to put in place as a business and not something this service can 
comment on more generally.
I can see that it waited for nearly six years after the account had been closed by the previous 
account holder, before recycling the account details. Barclays has explained that the reason 
it did this was to attempt to minimise any chance of misdirecting payments. So here, I think 
Barclays followed its procedure and that it did so fairly. Its unfortunate that Mr R made the 
payments into the account without first checking. But, I dont think its fair to hold Barclays 
liable for that.
Under the relevant regulations here, banks have a duty to ensure that they use 
authentication methods which means that the payer would often have to provide additional 
information before a transaction goes through. In this case, Mr Rs own bank wouldve been 
the bank that required the additional pieces of information when Mr R was instructing the 
payments to be made. So, I dont think this is a reason that Barclays could or should have 
done anything differently either.
Although I can appreciate the impact this mustve had on Mr R and his finances (especially 
as I note that he had to borrow money to recoup the losses) I dont think Barclays has been 
unreasonable or treated him unfairly, in its refusal to reveal the third partys details or return 
the funds that he sent incorrectly. I think it did what wed expect a bank to do when a 
customer tells it theyve transferred money to the wrong place and I wont be telling it to do 
anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman