DRN-3487293
The complaint
Miss S complained because Monzo Bank Limited closed her account and recorded a CIFAS 
fraud marker against her name.
What happened
On 19 January 2021, Miss S opened a Monzo account with £0.01, by faster payment.
On 21 January, a faster payment for £100 credited the account, and £100 was immediately 
transferred to an account elsewhere in Miss Ss name.
This was followed by two more faster payment credits, one for £0.30 and one for £200. The 
£200 was immediately transferred to an account elsewhere in Miss Ss name.
This was followed by another faster payment credit for £300, and £300 was immediately 
transferred to an account elsewhere in Miss Ss name.
On 22 January, there was a faster payment credit for £190. 
On 23 January, Miss S rang Monzo because she couldnt withdraw the £190. She said shed 
had a message saying the account had been temporarily disabled. The advisor told Miss S 
that Monzo had taken the decision to close Miss Ss account. She asked why, and he said 
he didnt have any more information he could give her. The adviser took details of a non-
Monzo account for the balance of the account to be transferred to.
Monzo also recorded a CIFAS fraud marker against her name.  CIFAS is a fraud prevention 
membership organisation with a large database. Members, such as Monzo, register markers 
against individuals, and can view information recorded by other members. Before a member 
can record a marker, they have to satisfy a high standard of proof, and set standards. These 
standards include a requirement that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or 
financial criminal offence has been committed or attempted. That evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct to the 
police.
In mid-March, Miss S rang Monzo again. She said that shed looked on the CIFAS website 
and it had said she should contact Monzo and ask for a final response letter. She said a 
friend had said if he put money into her account, she could keep some and hed have some 
of it. She also mentioned a fraud which had happened on an account she had elsewhere, 
which she said meant shed lost money, so shed agreed. The advisor said that Monzo 
couldnt reopen the account, which Miss S said she understood, but she wanted the marker 
removed. She said the CIFAS website said she needed a final response letter from Monzo to 
appeal to CIFAS, so she complained.
In its final response letter, Monzo said that it wasnt upholding her complaint, because it had 
complied with its regulatory obligations, and its obligations to Miss S as a customer. Monzo 
said that it understood the crux of her complaint was about the CIFAS marker. It said that as 
a result of Miss Ss complaint, it had had this reviewed by a senior specialist, and it had 
taken the decision that it wouldnt be removing the CIFAS marker. Monzo also said it 
wouldnt be providing Miss S with any further information about the decision, or about the 
reason it had been raised initially.
Miss S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said one of her friends had 
asked her if they could use her bank account, and shed be able to keep some and would 
give them some of it as well. Miss S said the CIFAS marker had ruined her future as it was 
being really difficult and she wouldnt be able to open a bank account for six years. Miss S 
said I regret the decision of being a money mule every day.
Our investigator spoke to Miss S and said she found what she said was plausible. She 
accepted that the account had been used for illegitimate payments but thought it was more 
likely than not that Miss S hadnt been deliberately complicit.
Monzo didnt agree. It sent further evidence of its reasons, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In the provisional decision, I considered the closure of Miss 
Ss account, and the CIFAS marker.
Closure of Miss Ss account
I explained that under the terms and conditions of Miss Ss account, Monzo had the authority 
to close the account. Under the section Closing your account, these terms and conditions 
set out that customers can close their accounts. It says that Monzo can close an account 
too, by giving at least two months notice, but it may close an account immediately under 
certain circumstances. These include
if we believe youve:
-broken the law or attempted to break the law
-given us false information at any time
-given a third party control of your account, phone, card or PIN.
I accepted that Monzo believed that one or more of these was true about the conduct of Miss 
Ss account. So I found that it was entitled to close Miss Ss account, without giving notice. 
 
CIFAS marker
As Ive set out above, theres a high standard of proof required before a CIFAS member can 
record a CIFAS marker against a customers name. I carefully considered the evidence 
which Monzo supplied to this service about the usage of Miss Ss account. I explained that I 
couldnt set this out in full, because of security reasons. But I considered that the evidence 
did meet the standards for Monzo to be justified in reporting a marker.
I recognised that Miss S was unhappy about the consequences of a CIFAS marker against 
her name, which will be in place for six years. She said that she regrets her decision to be a 
money mule every day. I realised that this would be because of the impact this will have on 
her. I also considered whether Miss Ss age here might have played a part in how she acted 
in the context of the reason the marker was applied here.But there were some notable inconsistencies between what Miss S had told this service and 
what Monzos evidence shows. Monzos evidence was reliable and shows things such as the 
details and movement of various payments, including who they were made to and from.  
Miss S told us that a friend had said that if she let him put money into her account, she could 
keep some and the rest would go to him. But the evidence showed that:
- the money that came into the account came direct from a number of other people  
not just from any third party friend of Miss S as she says;
- the incoming credits from these people were taken out immediately by Faster 
Payments.  And it all went to other accounts in Miss Ss name. None of it went to any 
third party; 
- there was no other activity on the account, which was opened with 1p two days 
before the four fraudulent payments.  So it wasnt an existing account and Miss Ss 
statement that a friend asked to use her existing account doesnt make sense. The 
account was only ever used to receive money from other people and to send the 
proceeds to accounts in Miss Ss name.
I accepted that Miss S was young at the time all this took place, but the evidence I saw 
directly contradicted some of what Miss S told us. In particular, there was no evidence of any 
third party being involved, who Miss S says persuaded her to act as a money mule. I found 
the evidence Monzo has submitted to be credible and persuasive as a record of what 
happened here. This evidence strongly suggested that Miss S would have been more aware 
of what was happening here than she had suggested to us.
With this in mind, I found that Miss S knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that the 
account was being used for fraudulent purposes. So having considered all the evidence, I 
found that Monzo had reasonable grounds to believe that Miss S had committed or 
attempted a fraud or financial criminal offence. I considered that the evidence was 
sufficiently clear, relevant and rigorous that Monzo could have confidently reported the 
conduct to the police.
So I found that filing the CIFAS marker was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the evidence Monzo had.
Responses to my provisional decision
Monzo said it had no further comments on the provisional decision.
Miss S didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and in the light of the 
responses from the parties, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman