DRN-3463770
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Paragon Bank Plc delayed the opening of a savings account  
which led to him getting a lower rate of interest than hed been expecting.
What happened
Towards the end of 2020, Mr T completed an application for a postal savings account with 
Paragon.  The account was for a fixed term of three years and offered an interest rate of 
1.15%.  
The account had to be funded within 28 days of the application to guarantee that rate.  
Customers could choose to do this either by sending a cheque with the application, or by 
electronic transfer once Paragon had confirmed the account was open.
Mr T completed an application form and posted it to Paragon.  He chose not to send a 
cheque with the form, but to wait and fund the account by electronic transfer when it was 
open.  But Paragon couldnt process the application because Mr T hadnt provided his date 
of birth.  So they wrote asking him to provide this.
Mr T posted the extra information Paragon needed to complete the application.  Once this 
was received and processed, Paragon sent Mr T a welcome pack and asked him to send his 
initial deposit.  And they reminded Mr T they needed to receive his deposit within 28 days of 
his application to guarantee the rate.
Mr T says he didnt receive the welcome pack before the 28 days had expired.  So he 
couldnt make his deposit in time to take advantage of the 1.15% rate.  Paragon offered him 
a rate of 0.90% instead. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this and contacted Paragon to find out if there was some way he 
could get the higher rate applied to his account.  Paragons call handler said that, if he could 
get the funds transferred to them that day, theyd honour the 1.15%.  But Mr T couldnt do 
that, as the branch of his funding bank was closed.  He asked the call handler to extend the 
time for funding.  
The call handler advised Mr T they could extend the time to fund the account for a week  
but the rate applied to the account would be the rate in force on the day funds were 
received.   He told Mr T that, because the account hadnt been funded, it would be 
automatically closed by their system.  So he asked Mr T to call them before sending any 
money so Paragon could delete the auto close command and receive his deposit.
A couple of days later, Mr T called Paragon to let them know hed be transferring funds the 
following day.  The call handler told him that the latest time for receipt of funds was 4pm.  
And that the stop preventing the funds being rejected would be reinstated at midnight.
Mr T sent funds the following day.  But they were received after 4pm so were rejected.  Mr T 
called Paragon about this and Paragon explained what happened.  The account was funded 
by direct transfer the following day.
Mr T complained to Paragon about only being able to open the account with an interest rate 
of 0.90% and about the delay in funding, which he said was because he was told payments 
had to be sent by midnight.  
Paragon investigated but didnt uphold his complaint.  They acknowledged Mr T didnt 
receive his welcome pack until after the 28 day fund window had expired.  But they said they 
couldnt send this until they had the information they needed from him to open his account.  
And they said they gave customers the option to fund the account by cheque when they 
applied, to avoid issues like this.
And Paragon said Mr Ts calls to them about sending the funds had been listened to and 
hed been given the right information about the funds having to be received by 4pm.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Paragons response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Paragon didnt need to do any more to resolve the 
complaint.  She noted the delay in processing Mr Ts application had been due to him 
missing some information out of his application.  She said it was clear that the account had 
to be funded within 28 days of the application.  And, although it took five days for Mr Ts 
welcome pack to reach him, she couldnt hold Paragon responsible for postal delays.
The investigator listened to Mr Ts calls to Paragon and was satisfied Paragon had provided 
the right information about the cut off time for receipt of funds.  
In response to questions from Mr T, the investigator obtained reviewed extra information 
from Paragon, but didnt change her view the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Although Mr T 
said Paragon had caused delay by sending the welcome pack second class, Paragon 
provided records which showed it had been sent first class.  And she confirmed Paragon 
required Mr T to provide the missing information, and they couldnt complete that themselves 
using the identity document he provided.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from all Ive looked at that Mr Ts frustrated he wasnt able to complete the opening 
of his account within the 28 day time limit.  Im sorry he feels that way.  But I can only decide 
Paragon should do something more if Im satisfied something went wrong in the opening 
process  and that was Paragons fault.
The application form
Ive looked at the application form Mr T completed.  The box for him to provide his date of 
birth clearly doesnt include that information.  So Ive thought about whether it was 
reasonable for Paragon not to process the application until they had this.  
Mr T said hed provided a copy of his counterpart driving licence as proof of identity  which 
could be used to confirm his date of birth without requesting it of him.  So he said Paragon 
requesting the information from him caused unnecessary delay.
Ive thought about this.  The counterpart licence doesnt include Mr Ts date of birth.  Rather, 
it includes a future date on which the licence will expire, which is calculated by reference to a persons date of birth.  I dont think its reasonable to say Paragon should have done this, 
rather than requesting the information from Mr T.  
And Ive noted Paragon told Mr T they dont accept counterpart driving licences as proof of 
identity.  I think thats reasonable because  as confirmed by the gov.uk website  paper 
counterparts have had no legal status since 2015.
On that basis, I dont think requesting the information missing from the application form 
caused an unnecessary delay.  I can see that the welcome pack was issued three days after 
Paragon received what they needed.  I think that was reasonable.
Delay in sending the welcome pack
Its clear Mr T didnt receive his welcome pack in time to make his deposit.  He thinks this is 
because Paragon sent the pack by second class, rather than first class post.  Hes supplied 
a copy of an envelope showing second class postage.  Paragon have said their welcome 
packs are sent by first class post and supplied their records showing that happened in Mr Ts 
case.
The parties are in a clear dispute here.  But I dont think I have to decide which of them I find 
more persuasive because I dont think the class of postage made a difference here.  Mr T 
has sent us a copy of a letter he sent to Paragon, in which he scheduled all the 
correspondence he received from them.  Hes recorded receiving two letters of the same 
date - one of which was the welcome pack.  Hes noted one was sent first class, the other 
second.  But he received both the same day.  So Im satisfied that Mr T wasnt 
disadvantaged even if, as he maintains, the welcome pack was sent second class.
The interest rate applied
Ive explained above why I dont think Paragon delayed Mr Ts application.  So Ive also 
considered the evidence to see that the conditions applying to the rate of 1.15% were clear.
The account terms and conditions say:
Provided you make your opening deposit within 28 calendar days of your application 
request well guarantee the interest rate shown when we received your application request 
or, if high, the rate on our website at the time you make your opening deposit.
I think thats clear.  And its clear from the application form that customers can make that 
deposit by sending a cheque with their application so that Paragon has it to hand once the 
applications been processed.  
I appreciate Mr T preferred to wait until his account was open before making his deposit.  
That was his choice to make.  But I cant hold Paragon responsible for the consequences of 
his choice.  Im satisfied they made him aware of the timescales applicable for securing the 
higher rate.  So I dont think they need to do any more to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Paragon Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman