DRN-3153772
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Tesco Bank Box 
Insurance (Tesco) didnt tell him his son would have to pay extra for going over the 
estimated mileage on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D bought a Tesco motor insurance policy for his son in March 2021. He initially tried to 
get an online quote but hadnt been able to complete this. He called Tesco in February and 
March 2021 to get a quote and take out the insurance.
In July 2021, Tesco emailed Mr Ds son to tell him he was nearing the mileage limit on his 
policy. It told him he needed to buy additional Top Up miles if he wanted to go over this limit 
and remain insured. For example, he could buy an additional 2,000 miles for £347.65. Mr D 
complained that he hadnt been told about this additional cost when he took out the policy.
Tesco reviewed its phone calls with Mr D. If identified four calls: 
12 February. Mr Ds initial call after problems getting an online quote. Tescos agent 
was able to provide this.
27 February. Mr D asked for a second quote for another car. The agent briefly 
explained how the black box1 worked.
1 March (1st call). A more detailed discussion about how the black box worked. Tesco 
said its agent explained it was a miles based insurance and we offered policies for 
6,000, 8,000 and 10,000 [miles] and you had chosen 6,000. [The agent] also said 
you can purchase Top Up miles and the prices are available on the website.
1 March (2nd call). Mr D bought the policy. He didnt want the agent to explain the 
policy terms in full, so the agent summarised these and directed Mr D to the 
customer portal for more information.
Tesco said it had provided Mr D with all the information about the Top Up miles before he 
bought the policy. It also told Mr D the welcome letter it sent his son included more 
information about this.
Mr D was unhappy with Tescos response and brought the complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said:
Tesco didnt tell him about the cost of buying extra miles if his son went over the 
estimated mileage.
He estimated the mileage when he took out the policy.
It wasnt realistic to know exactly how many miles his son would drive during the 
policy year.
He didnt read the policy documents or access the customer portal after he bought 
the policy for his son.
1 The black box is the device fitted to the car to monitor driving and track mileage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Tesco had explained the policy correctly on its website, over the phone, and in 
the policy documents.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key thing for me to decide here is whether Tesco told Mr D about the extra costs 
associated with the policy. Im satisfied that it did, and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to Mr Ds phone calls with Tesco and I think Tescos summary of those calls is 
accurate. In a call on 1 March, Mr D explicitly asked about bonus miles.  During that 
discussion, Tescos agent told Mr D that his son needed to buy Top Up miles if he went over 
the 6,000 miles on his policy.  
The mileage information is also clearly set out in the policy documents. For example:
Welcome letter, 1 March 2021: Your policy miles. Your policy includes 6,000 policy 
miles. Its important that you check Your Portal for your remaining miles and dont 
exceed your balance, or your policy will be cancelled. Buying Top Up miles is quick 
and easy, and can be done via Your Portal or through Live Chat.
Policy schedule: 
oYour cover is for 6,000 Policy Miles, measured by the black box fitted to your 
car. If you need more miles you can buy Top Up Miles. 
oIt quoted the cost of buying 250, 500, 1000, and 2,000 extra miles. It referred 
to the policy booklet and customer portal for more information.
Insurance statement of fact: This product is suitable for a customer who intends to 
drive no more than 6,000 miles on an annual basis (Additional miles can be 
purchased online or over the phone).
Policy booklet:
oYour cover is connected to the miles you drive. You pay for a set number of 
Policy Miles which are measured by a black box fitted to your car. If you use 
up all your Policy Miles before the end of the period of policy cover, you can 
buy more miles, known as Top Up Miles. You can buy Top Up Miles in 
bundles of 250, 500, 1,000 or 2,000 miles at any time during the term of your 
policy. Top Up Miles will be charged at your cost per mile rate. 
oTop up miles are defined as additional miles you can buy if you need to drive 
further than your Policy Miles.
Finally, I know Mr D bought the policy over the phone. However, he told Tesco hed initially 
tried to get an online quote. Tesco sent us an example customer journey showing what    
Mr D would have seen on its website when he tried to get the online quote. The website 
highlights a section called Important Information and asks customers to read this. The first 
point in this section is Policy Miles. This explains the link between the premium and the 
mileage as well as the need to buy Top Up miles if the customer goes over the selected 
mileage.
I think all of this is clear. I dont accept that not listening properly to the agent or not reading 
the policy documents is a reasonable excuse for not knowing how the policy worked, especially when the mileage is a key part of this.
Im satisfied that Tesco told Mr D that his son would have to buy additional miles if he went 
over his policy mileage during a phone call on 1 March 2021. Im also satisfied that the 
mileage information was clearly highlighted at all stages of the sales process and in the 
policy documents his son received in March 2021. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman