DRN-3194172
The complaint
Ms N says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH), irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says that she was in a debt spiral and she couldnt afford the loans. Ms N thinks LaH 
shouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans LaH provided to Ms N between September 
2017 and August 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 28/09/2017 £600 33 16/05/2018
2 16/05/2018 £1,000 45 27/03/2019
3 27/03/2019 £1,000 46 23/10/2019
4 23/10/2019 £1,700 46 26/08/2020
5 26/08/2020 £1,250 46 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ns complaint and thought that loans 2 to 5 shouldnt have been 
approved. She that that it was likely that Ms N couldnt afford the repayments for loan 2 and 
from loan 3 onwards the lending pattern itself looked to be harmful. 
Ms Ns representative didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said
LaH didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Ms N could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ms N didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this, I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Ms N had with LaH. So, its 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
Our adjudicator thought the information from the point of sale showed that Ms N couldnt 
have repaid loan 2 in a sustainable manner as the repayment was too high a proportion of 
her declared income. I have independently reviewed the evidence of Mrs Ns income and 
expenditure and have come to the same conclusion.
Ms Ns income was recorded as being £108 a week. And her expenditure was recorded as 
being £53 a week. This is a very modest income and the £40 a week repayment to LaH was 
a very high proportion of this, and almost all of her disposable income. I cant see how Ms N 
couldve managed these repayments sustainably. And there was very little to spare if she 
needed any further money, above her very modest expenditure. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to say she could sustainably afford the repayments to this loan, 
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 3 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So, I think LaH was also irresponsible to continue lending after this point.
As LaH hasnt responded I wont add anything further to this. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms N from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms N may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms N loans 2 to 5.
If LaH has sold the outstanding debts LaH should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LaH is not able to buy the debts back then LaH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms N towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms N 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms N originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms N as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms N having made 
overpayments then LaH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LaH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms N. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then LaH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms N. LaH shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal LaH has already written-off.
E) LaH should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ns credit file in relation to 
loan 2. The overall pattern of Ms Ns borrowing for loans 3 to 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Ns credit 
file. LaH does not have to remove loan 5 from Ms Ns credit file until it has been repaid, but 
LaH should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Ms N a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ns complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman