DRN-4079513
The complaint
Ms S complains the maturity form Coventry Building Society (Coventry) provided for her 
maturing Individual Savings Account (ISA) was unclear and led to her losing her savings tax-
free status.
What happened
Ms S says in early November 2022 she received a letter and accompanying maturity 
instructions form relating to her maturing ISA with Coventry, due to mature at the end of that 
month. Ms S says she completed the form with the specific intention to transfer part of the 
maturing ISA to another provider which she had opened previously in readiness and reinvest 
a small amount with Coventry. Ms S says at the end of December 2022 she checked her ISA 
account with her new provider to discover the £58,000 transfer had been rejected. 
Ms S says she contacted her new provider who told her the payment had been rejected and 
there was nothing further it could do, so she then contacted Coventry who informed her the 
maturity form had been completed incorrectly. Ms S says she carefully read the maturity 
form which she feels is misleading as this doesnt fully cover the circumstances when an 
investor wishes to split the maturing funds and Coventry have also indicated the form can be 
misinterpreted. Ms S says Coventry have refused to reinstate her ISA status as it has told 
her a covering letter makes it clear she would have needed to contact the new provider to 
transfer the funds. 
Ms S feels its unfair that Coventrys misleading maturity instruction form has led to her 
losing her ISA tax free status and wants it to reinstate her ISA status and compensate her for 
the loss of interest she has suffered while dealing with her complaint. 
Coventry says it has made no error as the maturity instructions Ms S was sent, was 
incorrectly completed by her and it had sent an accompanying letter making it clear to her 
what was required if she wanted to transfer her money to another provider. Coventry says 
under HMRC regulations it is unable to return the funds to an ISA status unless it has made 
a mistake which it didnt feel it had but paid Ms S £25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms S wasnt happy with Coventrys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Coventry had acted in line with Ms Ss instructions and it had provided her 
with a covering letter which made clear that if she wanted to pay funds to another ISA 
provider, that provider was responsible for making the transfer on her behalf. The 
investigator says Coventry hadnt done anything wrong, and it had followed Ms Ss 
instructions. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Ms S to discover, because she had misinterpreted 
Coventrys ISA maturity instruction form, she had lost her ISA tax free status. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Coventry gave Ms S sufficient information on 
what was required of her when her ISA matured in November 2022. 
Both parties have provided this service with details of the course of events here and while 
that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made as I dont feel its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent 
considered everything  I have. 
The course of events here are well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat whats 
already been said other than to say Ms S feels Coventrys ISA maturity form is misleading 
and this is the sole reason behind why she has lost her tax-free status on those savings. 
While I understand the points Ms S makes here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this because I have seen the maturity form and covering letter Coventry sent Ms S in 
early November 2022. Whats important to say here is under HMRCs regulations any 
transfers from one ISA provider to another, requires the recipient of those funds to initiate 
the transfer, in order to maintain the tax-free status on those funds. In the covering letter 
sent to Ms S alongside the maturity form it says:
 If youd like to transfer money to an ISA with another provider, youll need to contact your 
new provider and theyll arrange the transfer on your behalf. If you dont ask them to make 
an ISA transfer, your money will lose its tax -free status. 
Its also worth saying the form Ms S completed also indicates under section 4, if you want to 
transfer funds to another provider you dont need to complete this form and youd need to 
contact your ISA provider to arrange this. So here if Ms S was unsure about her individual 
circumstances, as she only wanted part of her maturing ISA reinvested with Coventry, that 
was the time to query this with them. Afterall, in the declaration Ms S signed on the maturity 
form it does state  If you do not understand any point please ask for further information. 
Its worth saying the reason why Coventrys maturity form doesnt give an option to transfer 
maturing ISA funds to a new ISA provider, is due the fact under HMRC regulations thats not 
something it can do  that needs to be initiated by the new provider. I am satisfied that is 
why Coventry sent an accompanying letter at the same time explaining this, to cover all 
eventualities. 
I have listened to a phone call Ms S had with Coventry at the end of December 2022, and in 
that call Ms S says she didnt realise she had to instruct her new provider to arrange the 
transfer of funds, even though she had since checked, and confirmed that this is detailed on 
the new providers website. Ms S also says this was a genuine mistake on her part and had 
misunderstood the form Coventry had sent. In that call Coventrys agent informed Ms S 
under HMRC regulations, as it hadnt made an error it was unable to reinstate the tax-free 
status. During that call theres no evidence to say that Coventrys agent agreed with Ms S 
that the maturity form was unclear, as Ms S suggests. While I have some sympathy with Ms S here as this was clearly a genuine oversight on her 
part, I cant say Coventry have made a mistake, for the reasons I have already given and so 
I cant tell it to reinstate Ms Ss tax-free status. So, with that in mind its reasonable to say it 
was Ms Ss responsibility to read all of the correspondence Coventry sent regarding the 
maturity of her ISA and if she was at all unsure, she should have contacted Coventry before 
completing the form.  
While Ms S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Coventry 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman