DRN-2648308
The complaint
Miss S complains that esure services Limited declined to deal with a claim she made on her
motor insurance policy after her partners car was stolen.
What happened
Miss S says she drove the car to a friends home on 14 August 2019 and parked it outside
overnight. The next morning the car was gone and wasnt recovered. esure investigated the
claim and advised Miss S that it couldnt be validated. It said the one key for the car that
shed provided had been checked by an independent key assessor. He said it showed
evidence of occasional use and that the data recorded on the key showed it had last been
used on 5 August 2019. He said two active warning messages were recorded on it on that
date. So esure thought the evidence didnt support the theft having happened as reported.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint. He thought esure should reconsider
the claim. He noted that the key report said the car had to be driven at a minimum of 31
miles per hour in order for the key to update. Miss S said the car was rarely driven, as she
had the use of another car and it was bought for her partner to learn to drive in. She said she
took him for a lesson on 5 August 2019 in a 40 mile an hour zone, but she didnt use the car
again until the day before it was stolen.
The investigator said even if Miss S had used the car for short trips after 5 August 2019, she
may not have driven at over 30 miles an hour. esure repeated that the claims decline was
based on the key report. It said the account Miss S gave of the cars usage didnt match the
data provided by the key. The investigator didnt change his view, so esure then clarified the
key report, having spoken to the key specialist. He said the key would record active
warnings if the car was driven at over 31 miles an hour  but it would also do that whether
the car was driven at that speed or not. So unless the faults showing on 5 August 2019 had
been fixed, the key Miss S had supplied wasnt used to drive the car after that. Miss S said
no work had been done on the car since it was bought.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I think esure had reason to be concerned about the circumstances of the theft, given the 
evidence it had to consider. In his report, the key specialist said Miss Ss key was one of two 
originally coded to the car, which was registered in 2011. He said the occasional use 
showing on it suggested it wasnt the cars primary key. The car was seven years old when 
Miss Ss partner bought it. I think its very likely that the two keys provided by the 
manufacturer when the car was first sold would have been passed on to the next owner of 
the car, so its also likely that one of the keys wouldnt have had much use during the period 
before Miss Ss partner bought the car.
Miss S said she couldnt recall whether two keys were supplied with the car or not. The sales
receipt doesnt refer to keys, and Miss S was unable to check with the garage. I think its
possible only one key was supplied, and that it was the one used by previous owners as a
spare key. Alternatively, if two keys were supplied by the seller, one of them is missing.
I think the issue of most concern to esure is that the key Miss S provided doesnt support her
account of the circumstances of the theft. Its possible that she could have driven to her
friends house on 14 August 2019 without exceeding 30 miles per hour. If so, the key
wouldnt have updated as a result of the cars speed. But I dont think esure could ignore the
evidence from the key specialist about the automatic recording of active warnings on it.
The key specialist provided evidence that two active warnings were recorded on the key on
5 August 2019. They showed that there was a steering problem and a charging system
malfunction with the car. He thought they could have been the result of a front-end collision,
but he said that neither of these issues would have meant the car couldnt be driven.
Ive listened to the recording of the call in which esure asked the key specialist to clarify his
reference to the recording of active warnings in his report. He said the key would have
updated automatically after 5 August 2019 had it even been put into the cars ignition. He
said the active warnings would have been recorded on it again, unless the problems that led
to them being recorded previously had been put right.
Miss S told the investigator when asked that no work had been done on the car. So I think it
was reasonable for esure to rely on the independent evidence from the key specialist. It
showed the car hadnt been driven using the key Miss S supplied after 5 August 2019. esure
cant be sure what happened to the car between 5 August 2019 and the date Miss S
reported the theft. But as the circumstances of the theft didnt appear to be as Miss S
described, in my opinion it was reasonable for esure to decide it couldnt validate the claim.
Understandably, Miss S is distressed by the situation, but as I dont think esure acted
unreasonably, Im minded not to uphold her complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure didnt comment. Miss S 
said she was frustrated at being left in debt, but that she had no other comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional findings. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman