DRN-4142635
The complaint
Mrs W has complained to us that Arval UK Limited (Arval) charged her for damage at the 
end of a hire agreement.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs W leased a car over 48 months using a hire agreement provided by Arval. 
The monthly rental payments were £288.25.
Mrs W returned the car at the end of the agreement. The car was inspected and Arval sent 
her an invoice for damage. It set out the following:
Nearside front alloy wheel  damage more 
than 50mm£67
Offside front alloy wheel  damage more 
than 50mm£67
Nearside quarter panel  dent  swage line £217
Total £351
Mrs W was unhappy with this and complained to Arval. 
Arval sent its final response on 31 August 2022. It said, in summary, that it had reviewed the 
damage and thought the charges had been fairly applied according to appropriate 
guidelines. It said the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear. But it agreed to reduce the 
damage charge for the dent by 50%. This equalled a reduction of £108.50. Therefore her 
overall bill was £242.50.
Mrs W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. She told us that in 
relation to the wheels, she was informed by two mechanics and a wheel repair specialist that 
the wheels were not scratched; the damage was due to lacquer rust. They said it happened 
over time and nothing could be done about it. And she told us that there was no dent on the 
car when it was collected from her.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said that Arval was entitled to charge for damage under the hire 
agreement. He said he thought the charges were fairly applied in terms of the damage that 
had been done to the car.
Mrs W disagreed with this. As Mrs W remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W complains about a hire agreement. Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts 
such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Ws complaint against 
Arval.
Ive firstly considered whether Arval could charge Mrs W for the damage to the car. 
The terms and conditions Mrs W agreed to said:
.ARVAL shall invoice the Hirer for the cost of repairs (whether or not carried out) to a 
Vehicle returned to ARVAL that is subject to damage which, in accordance with the BVRLA 
Fair Wear and Tear Guide for the Contract Hire Industry, would constitute unfair wear and 
tear.
So, I think Mrs W agreed to be charged for any damage to the car outside of fair wear and 
tear. And, the hire agreement defined fair wear and tear by reference to guidelines set out 
by the British Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
Ive carefully considered the areas of damage for which Arval charged Mrs W. In relation to 
the dent, Arval has provided photos which show it clearly. It shows as a distortion in the 
reflection of a zebra board which has been held up next to it. 
Next, Ive looked at what the BVRLA guidance says about this kind of damage:
Dents on the roof or on the swage line of any panel are not acceptable. 
Because this dent is on the swage line, it falls outside of the definition of fair wear and tear. 
Turning to what Mrs W has told us about this, she said that she doesnt think that this dent 
was on the car when it was collected from her. But I think its more likely than not that it was. 
I say this because Mrs W had the car for the duration of the hire agreement. And on balance, 
I think its most likely the dent would have happened during this time, rather than after it was 
collected. Mrs W also told us that the person who collected the car on behalf of Arval didnt 
mention the dent to her. Im not sure what happened here. But either way, this doesnt 
change my opinion that the dent was present. 
Looking at the alloy wheels, the photos show marks on the wheels and Mrs W told us that 
she was aware of this. She said that shed sought advice from mechanics and wheel repair 
specialists. They explained to her that the marks were due to lacquer rust. And they said that 
there was nothing that could be done about it. 
But having considered this, I dont think this means that the wheel damage is something Mrs 
W doesnt have to pay for. On wheels the BVRLA guidance says:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Looking at the photos, I think its most likely the marks are due to scratches  I say this as 
they have the appearance and location typical of where an alloy has been curbed. The 
scratches on the wheels were longer than 50mm. So this falls outside the definition of fair 
wear and tear. 
But, either way, I note that the guidance also says:
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.
So, even if I accept these marks are due to rust or the wheels corroding, I still think they fall 
outside of the wear and tear guidance. Having looked at all the available information, I think its clear that the dent and the marks to 
the alloy wheels on this car fall outside fair wear and tear. And overall, Im satisfied that its 
fair and reasonable for Arval to have charged Mrs W for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Katrina Hyde
Ombudsman