DRN-3439251
The complaint
Mr A complains about Ageas Insurance Limited and the pre-accident valuation (PAV) of his 
motorcycle that was categorised as a total loss following a road traffic accident.
Mr A has been represented by his father during the complaint. For ease of reference, Ive 
referred to the comments made by both as being made by Mr A himself throughout the 
decision.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr A was involved in a road traffic accident. So, he contacted Ageas who 
provided his motorcycle insurance. 
Ageas arranged for Mr As motorcycle to be inspected. And this inspection deemed the 
motorcycle to be a total loss. So, Ageas offered Mr A a PAV payment for his motorcycle, in 
line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
Initially, Ageas offered Mr A £550, less his excess of £500. They increased this offered to 
£700 and then finally £774 after challenges from Mr A. But they refused to offer Mr A more 
than this, as this thought it was a fair market price. Mr A was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr A didnt think Ageas PAV was fair. He explained this offer didnt provide him with enough 
money to source a like for like replacement as they were being advertised for between 
£1,200 to £1,500. So, he wanted Ageas to match this amount.
Ages responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They explained theyd valued Mr As 
motorcycle using the industry recognised guides. And they thought these guides showed the 
£774 valuation was a reasonable one. So, they didnt think it needed to be increased any 
further and because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr A 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt dispute Mr As 
testimony that the PAV he received didnt allow him to purchase a motorcycle of a similar 
make and model. But they explained Mr As insurance didnt cover him for a like for like 
replacement. Instead, it stated Ageas would pay Mr A a fair market price. And having used 
motor trade guides to value Mr As motorcycle themselves, they were satisfied the PAV Mr A 
received well within the valuations these guides produced. So, they didnt think Ageas had 
acted unfairly and they didnt think Ageas needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He maintained his belief that it was unfair for him to be left in a position 
where hes unable to afford a replacement. And he thought the increase in prices of used 
vehicles should be considered. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I appreciate the upset 
and worry hed have felt after being involved in a road traffic accident. And I recognise he 
took out the policy with Ageas to help limit the financial impact on him in that sort of situation. 
So, when Mr A realised the PAV hed received wouldnt allow him to purchase a motorcycle 
of a similar make and model, I can understand why hed challenge this and believe this was 
unfair.
But for me to say Ageas have done something wrong, and so should increase the PAV 
offered to Mr A, Id need to be satisfied they failed to value his motorcycle in line with 
industry guidelines. Or, if I think they did, that they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Industry guidelines recommend that the market valuation of a vehicle is completed using 
motor trade guides. This valuation will consider the age and condition of the vehicle, the 
mileage plus several other factors. So, this is what I would expect Ageas to have done. And I 
can see they did. Ageas obtained more than one valuation, with Mr A being offered the 
higher valuation of £774. I think this shows Ageas acting in the best interests of Mr A, and 
taking into consideration the challenges he raised.
To ensure this valuation is fair, our service has completed our own market valuation using 
the motor trade guides. And I can see the £774 Ageas has paid falls within the range of 
valuations these guides provided. So, Im unable to say the valuation Ageas eventually paid 
to Mr A was unfair.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether Ageas acted within the terms of 
the policy. I can see the terms explain Once an engineer has inspected and assessed the 
market value of the car, your insurer will send you an offer of payment to cover the market 
value of the car. Any payment made will be after any policy excess has been deducted. I 
think this makes it reasonably clear that any PAV will be based on the market value of Mr As 
motorcycle. And crucially, a market value differs from a retail value. In most cases, a retailer 
will sell a car or motorcycle for more than the market value, to make a profit. So, Mr As 
insurance policy doesnt guarantee they will provide a PAV that allows for a like for like 
replacement as Mr A wishes.
And this term also makes it clear that any payment will be subject to any excess associated 
to the policy. In this situation, Mr As excess was £500, which meant he received £274 after 
this was deducted. I can understand why Mr A would feel as though hes been short-
changed as he only saw £274 cash in hand for his motorcycle. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest to me that Mr A took out the insurance policy without understanding the excess for 
any claim would be £500. So, Im satisfied Ageas acted in line with the terms of the policy 
and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I recognise the retail price of 
used vehicles has continued to increase since his accident, which will have made it even 
more difficult for him to replace his motorcycle. But I dont think this is the fault of Ageas. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied the valuation they placed on Mr As motorcycle was a fair 
market price. And that they acted within the terms of Mr As policy through the claims 
process. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman