DRN-3099050
The complaint
 Miss R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted irresponsibly by increasing 
her overdraft limit when she was in financial difficulty.
  
What happened
Miss R complained to HSBC that it acted irresponsibly by allowing her to increase her 
overdraft limit on a number of occasions. She says the increase in limits was unaffordable 
for her and the charges caused her financial difficulty.  HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. 
And as Miss R was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC 
ought to have realised that Miss R was experiencing financial difficulty by 28 July 2017 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
disagreed it says Miss R should have contacted the bank sooner if she was experiencing 
financial difficulty and that there was no evidence of this on her bank statements. So the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Miss Rs overdraft limit on 28 July 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss R 
was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss R was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Miss R was already clearly struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit with HSBC.when 
it once again agreed to increase her limit a further £200 to £2400. A cursory look at her 
statements show she wasnt able to bring down the overdraft from the limit she already had.
So I think that Miss Rs overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that 
Miss R wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Miss Rs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC 
didnt treat Miss R fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 28 July 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss R to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Rs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 28 July 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman