DRN-2806098
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK 
declined a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D booked a holiday abroad in late 2019. They have an annual travel insurance 
policy, linked to their package bank account. 
They left the UK as planned on 28 February 2020 and were due to return on 27 March 2020. 
After their departure, on 11 March 2020, the WHO declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic and a few days later the country they were visiting closed its borders to visitors 
from a number of countries. On 17 March the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential travel and on 23 March 2020 instructed all UK citizens 
abroad to return home. 
Mr and Mrs D made their way to the mainland of the country they were visiting and arranged 
to cut short their trip. They made a claim for around £1000 of tickets, accommodation costs 
and food. 
AIG declined the claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs Ds return to the UK didnt fall within the 
list of insured perils specified in the policy. They said it wasnt an insured event and they 
didnt accept the claim. Mr and Mrs D complaint but AIG maintained their decision to decline 
the claim, on the basis that it wasnt covered by the policy terms. Mr and Mrs D complained 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that AIG had fairly relied on the policy terms. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to look into the complaint. They said that AIG should clearly state what is 
covered under the terms and that theyd spoken to AIG, whilst abroad, and were told that 
expenses incurred would be looked at favourably. So, I need to make a decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Section C of the policy explains what is covered when a policyholder cuts short their trip. It 
says that cover is provided for unused and additional expenses if: 
The cutting short of your trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result of the 
following.
1. You dying, becoming seriously ill or being injured
2. The death, serious illness or injury of a relative, a close business associate, a 
person who you are travelling with or a relative or friend living abroad who you 
are staying with
3. If the Police or relevant authorities need you to return home to the United 
Kingdom after a fire, storm, flood, burglary or vandalism to your home or place of 
business
4. If you are a member of the armed forces or Police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services which results in you having to return to the United Kingdom due to an 
unforeseen emergency or if you are posted overseas unexpectedly.
There are general exclusions in the policy which says that policyholders are not covered for: 
Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area 
where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have 
advised against all (but essential) travel 
Any claim arising from the tour operator, airline or any other company, firm or person 
becoming insolvent, or being unable or unwilling to fulfil any part of their obligation to 
you. 
Have AIG fairly declined the claim?
I have a great deal of empathy with the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs D found 
themselves. They were on a long-haul holiday and were unexpectedly caught up in the 
significant travel disruption associated with Covid-19. And, I can entirely understand why 
they chose to return home in the circumstances. However, Im not upholding their complaint 
because: 
I dont agree that section A of the policy, which relates to cancellation, is the 
correct section of the policy to assess the claim under. Section A is called, 
Cancelling your trip. Section C is called Cutting your trip short and refers to 
cutting the trip short and returning to the UK. I think it is sufficiently clear that 
Section C applies once the holiday has started. Mr and Mrs D left the UK in 
late February. Whilst I appreciate that they still had other destinations to visit 
on their trip, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that they hadnt started 
their trip yet. So, I dont think Section A of the policy applies 
 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy covers them for cutting their trip short in certain 
specified circumstances, which Ive outlined above. A change in FCO 
guidance isnt an insured event under section C of the policy. Ive also 
considered the other sections that could apply to Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances, including the cover for natural catastrophe. But the definition 
of natural catastrophe doesnt include a pandemic or epidemic. That means 
on a strict interpretation of the policy terms the claim isnt coveredI appreciate their airline could only offer Mr and Mrs D a flight earlier than 
their original planned date of departure, which led to them missing out on a 
portion of their holiday, but I dont think I can fairly say this is a situation which 
falls within the policy terms. Theres a general exclusion which says that AIG 
isnt responsible for claims arising from an airlines failure to fulfil their 
obligations to a policyholder. I dont think its unreasonable for AIG to rely on 
that exclusion in the particular circumstances of this case
 
Ive also taken into account whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, taking into account the individual circumstances of 
this complaint. I dont think it is  Mr and Mrs D would have most likely had 
the benefit of cover had they remained abroad as planned. The general 
exclusion relating to travelling against FCO advice only applies at the point of 
departure, not once a trip has started. Ive also considered the direction from 
the UK government for citizens to return home on 23 March 2020 but, taking 
into account the terms of this policy, it hasnt changed my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D may have been given the impression that their 
claim would be looked on favourably. But AIG is entitled to assess the claim 
once it has received all the claims information. And, on the facts of this 
complaint, I dont think it has unreasonably rejected the claim for the reasons 
Ive outlined above.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman