DRN-3207276
The complaint
Mr A complains about a personal loan provided to him by TMA Advances Limited, (TMA), 
which he says was irresponsibly lent. 
 
What happened
TMA provided a loan for £1,500 to Mr A on 8 February 2017. The loan was repayable by 24 
monthly payments of £173.75. If payments were made on time, the total amount to be repaid 
over the 24 months loan term was £4,170 including interest. The loan was repaid in         
April 2019. 
Mr A says that TMA should never have given him this unaffordable loan. This resulted in him 
taking out other loans. He didnt believe TMAs checks were correct and suitable for a loan of 
this nature. He had a number of payday loans at the time of taking out the loan.
In its final response letter, TMA provided information about Mr As declared income, 
expenses and his credit commitments. It said that the purpose of the loan was for debt 
consolidation of Mr As payday loans. TMA said that the loan was affordable, and it released 
Mr A from the cycle of payday loans. TMA also noted that Mr A had no adverse credit.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. He said 
that it initially appeared that after consolidation, Mr A wouldve eased his financial
burden on a month to month basis. But he thought the available information at the point of 
sale demonstrated that Mr As overall financial circumstances wouldve likely been worse
after consolidation.
TMA disagreed and responded to say that it agreed that the total payable on its loan and the 
term were more than the short term borrowings Mr A had. But the lender said that a payday 
loan put more strain on a borrower. It took a large chunk of their monthly income and 
inevitably meant they would need to re-use those products. Its loan allowed a consumer to 
consolidate and meant that they would then have a manageable monthly payment. Mr As 
total balances of £24,000 (£15,975 was on one account) had manageable monthly 
payments. His problem was the £837 per month he was spending on payday loans. TMA 
firmly believed it was putting Mr A into a better financial position by helping him to 
consolidate his payday loans.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to TMA on 11 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that I was sorry to hear about Mr As financial difficulties. 
Id noted that when TMA lent to Mr A the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Its rules and guidance obliged TMA to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TMA needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime 
of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TMA had to think about whether Mr A could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TMA to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr A. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did TMA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did TMA make a fair lending decision? 
Did TMA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As Id said above, TMA gathered some information from Mr A about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check.Id noted that although Mr As loan application form showed hed applied for a loan of £500, 
hed received a loan of £1,500. Mr A told TMA that he wanted the loan to consolidate some 
short term loans. 
In its final response letter, TMA said that Mr A had a disposable income of £1,017. I was 
concerned that TMA seemed to have accepted at face value that Mr A would have a  
disposable income of £1,017 a month (after settling some short term loans) yet needed to 
borrow high cost credit from it of £1,500 for the purpose of repaying some short term loans.
I was also concerned that TMA appeared to have relied on Mr As statement of his expenses 
without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure 
over the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
I thought it would have been proportionate for TMA to have verified Mr As actual income 
and expenses. Id noted that TMA said that it verified Mr As income with bank turnover data 
from a credit reference agency, although I queried how this would have shown an accurate 
salary figure.
Id reviewed TMAs credit checks. These showed that Mr A had 23 accounts with a total 
credit balance of £24,573 outstanding. The checks showed that Mr A had one credit card 
with a balance almost at the credit limit of £1,450. They also showed that Mr A had a large 
overdraft of £5,586. TMA could also see from its checks that Mr A had received five loans in 
the six months prior to his loan application which were still outstanding. TMA had also 
supplied information about the debts Mr A was to consolidate which showed another loan 
had been taken out around seven weeks prior to the application. All the six recent loans 
appeared to be short term loans. In addition, Mr A had a large loan with monthly repayments 
of around £483, with a remaining term of around 41 months. The credit checks also showed 
a number of settled short term loans. I could see from these and Mr As active loans that in 
the 11 months prior to his loan application, he had taken out at least one short term loan in 
eight of those months with his most recent loan taken out just six days before his loan 
application. 
Id also thought that TMA was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have 
revealed the full extent of Mr As credit commitments. A lender might only see a small portion 
of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might 
not necessarily be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies.
Overall, Id thought the results of its credit checks ought to have caused TMA concerns as Id 
thought they suggested that Mr A was struggling to manage his money as shown especially 
by his frequent use of and reliance on payday loans, his relatively high overdraft and one 
credit card being very near its credit limit. And I thought they might also have reasonably 
caused doubt on the accuracy of the income and expenditure information Mr A had provided. Id also noted that TMAs information suggested four payday loans were to be repaid from 
the loan proceeds although it appeared that the loan wasnt sufficient to repay all four loans.    
Mr A would have also had to use some of his own money to repay them. I also noted that 
TMAs information and credit checks suggested that Mr A would still have two outstanding 
payday loans as well as two longer term loans and his credit card and overdraft to pay. 
TMAs form showed that Mr A would have monthly credit commitments left of £1,025.75, as 
well as its loan repayment. But Id noted that this figure didnt include a loan taken out in 
early February 2017 shown in TMAs credit checks.
I could also see that Mr A was increasing his total indebtedness by taking TMAs loan. Whilst 
Mr A said that the £1,500 loan was being used to repay four loans, Mr A needed £4,170 to 
repay TMAs loan. So, it appeared that his total indebtedness was being increased as well 
as the time hed be indebted for.
Id said that simply performing credit checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Mr A was entering into a relatively 
long and expensive loan agreement. He was entering into a commitment to make his 
monthly loan repayments for 24 months and was, after all, committing to repay £4,170 over 
that period. So, I didnt think it was enough here for TMA to rely on credit information that it 
knew might not be up to date or comprehensive in order for it to have a clear understanding 
of Mr As finances at the time.
So, I thought it would have been reasonable and proportionate here for TMA to gather 
further information about Mr As financial situation and to verify his actual monthly 
expenditure. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr A, 
asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more 
information about his existing credit commitments. As I couldnt see it did this, I didnt think 
the checks TMA carried out before providing Mr A with his loan were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But that in itself didnt mean that Mr As complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown TMA that 
Mr A couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did TMA make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr A had provided this Service with some bank statements from around the time hed 
applied for the loan. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that TMA should have 
done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender should have 
seen. Had it sought some verification of Mr As finances, I thought TMA wouldve been in a 
better position to understand his financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id reviewed Mr As bank statements from around the time hed applied for the loan to see 
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown. 
I could see that Mr As last salary payment before the loan application was around £260 less 
than the income hed declared to TMA. 
Id also noted from Mr As bank statements in the three months before the loan that his 
account was continually in overdraft and the account didnt see a credit balance in that 
period even when his monthly salary was paid in. Mr A was exceeding his overdraft limit of 
£7,000 each month and paying unplanned overdraft fees and interest. I could see that he 
needed to take out at least one payday loan each month to supplement his income, with 
three payday loans taken in December 2017 totalling £950, one payday loan for £400 taken in January 2017 and two payday loans borrowed in the first week of February 2017 totalling 
£600. Some of these loans were included in TMAs credit checks and so it was likely to know 
about them. But I could see that three additional short term loans totalling £1,300, which 
were taken out in the seven weeks before Mr As application to TMA, werent shown in its 
checks. Id also noted that Mr As other expenses were higher than hed disclosed to TMA.
TMA said that the loan was affordable, and it had released Mr A from the cycle of payday 
loans. But this assumed Mr As need for credit wasnt an ongoing one and I thought his 
reliance on expensive short term loans to meet his existing costs showed that this wasnt a 
reasonable assumption. It seemed to me there was a risk here that Mr A would need to 
borrow to meet his repayments on this loan, as he was currently doing so for his existing 
costs.
So, if TMA had made further checks, I thought it would have been clear to the lender that   
Mr A was spending beyond his means and had been for some time, and that further credit 
was likely to add to his indebtedness. Mr A continued to borrow from short term lenders in 
the months following TMAs loan, and I thought this was foreseeable. Id noted that within   
13 days of taking out TMAs loan he had taken out another payday loan for £350. 
Id appreciated that Mr A continued to make his repayments although it appeared from 
TMAs loan statement that they were not all made on time, with a late payment being made 
as early as March 2017.
So, if TMA had carried out the independent view of Mr As circumstances that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought TMA ought reasonably to have realised that Mr A was having 
problems managing his finances that a debt consolidation wouldnt have solved. And it was 
likely to have seen that there was a significant risk that Mr A wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably repay the loan. I didnt think further checks would have provided any assurance 
that he could repay the loan sustainably. And I didnt think that TMA treated Mr A fairly when 
it agreed to lend to him as it was likely that agreeing more credit for him would simply add to 
his debt levels.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr A or TMA, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order TMA to put things right as follows. 
Putting things right  what TMA needs to do
TMA should:
a) refund the interest and fees Mr A paid for the loan;
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the
date of settlement; and
c) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA must give    
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted the decision.
TMA responded to my provisional decision to say that it didnt think it could say any more 
than what it had said previously. It also said that with the level of high cost short term credit 
Mr A had and forgetting the other credit he had and was paying, there was no option for him 
but to take a loan like TMAs loan. The loan gave Mr A the opportunity to pay off the short 
term loans he had and for him to have a more than manageable monthly payment.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure TMA that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. But I dont think that TMA has provided me with any new 
information that changes what I think about this case. 
I note that TMA said that the loan gave Mr A the opportunity to pay off the short term loans 
he had and for him to have a more than manageable monthly payment. But this assumes  
Mr As need for credit wasnt an ongoing one. And as Id said above, if TMA had made 
further checks, I think it would have been clear to the lender that Mr A was spending beyond 
his means and had been for some time, and that further credit was likely to add to his 
indebtedness. I also thought that TMA ought reasonably to have realised that Mr A was 
having problems managing his finances that a debt consolidation wouldnt have solved and 
there was a significant risk that Mr A wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the loan.
I appreciate that TMA takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision and to require 
TMA to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  what TMA 
needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order TMA Advances Limited to take the steps Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what TMA needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman