DRN-3071886
The complaint
Miss K, a beneficiary of an AXA Insurance UK Plc commercial property policy, complains 
that it wont cover her legal fees in respect of a civil claim, hasnt taken her concerns about 
damage to her property seriously, has caused delays, has failed to provide her with a copy 
of the policy schedule and failed to instruct her tenant to leave the property. 
What happened
Miss K purchased a leasehold flat  part of a new development  in March 2016. The 
management company and developer had taken out a commercial buildings insurance policy 
with AXA of which Miss K, as a leaseholder, was a beneficiary. 
Miss K moved into her property in August 2016 and raised concerns about the property with 
the developer (C) and management company (S) specifically that there were a significant 
number of flies. C and S inspected the property and noted high levels of damp at the 
partition wall between the bathroom and hallway. They considered a period of drying would 
resolve the issue.
In October 2016 the flat below Miss Ks reported an ingress of water from her flat above. C 
and S confirmed Miss Ks bathroom would need to be stripped out to locate the cause of the 
damage. Once further investigations were carried out, it was found that a hole had been cut 
in the soil stack pipe during construction of the flats and had not subsequently been filled. 
This resulted in water and raw sewage escaping in the void over time causing the damp.
The hole in the pipe was sealed by C and S but they considered Miss Ks bathroom would 
need to be dried out before everything could be refitted. In the meantime, Miss K arranged 
for her own independent report to be carried out. That confirmed that the plasterboard also 
needed to be stripped back in the bathroom to allow drying to take place.
Remedial works were initially finished in February 2017 but Miss K wasnt happy with the
outcome because she noted there was still a damp smell and flies in her property. A further 
inspection of Miss Ks property was carried out in June 2017 after which it was
recommended the chipboard in the property would also need to be removed and replaced
due to the contamination from the wastewater.
A further inspection followed in January 2018 and the recommended repairs to Miss Ks 
property were completed in January 2019. Having moved out into alternative 
accommodation in around October 2016, Miss K now returned to live in her flat for a few 
months before deciding to rent it out in April 2019. 
In June 2019 C and S contacted Miss K about a further leak from her property and after a
further investigation she was told the toilet cistern needed to be repaired. The repairs were 
carried out, but the issue continued. Miss K was concerned that there was still an issue with 
the soil stack pipe, so she raised her concerns with AXA. AXA thought the likely cause of the 
damage was the leak from the cistern and not the soil stack pipe because C and S had 
confirmed that had been repaired. 
In September 2019, as Miss K still had concerns, C and S appointed a contractor to 
investigate further and a further leak located on the soil stack pipe was discovered and 
temporarily repaired. In October 2019, C and S (as policyholders) raised a claim with AXA 
confirming in the process that a leak had been found and a temporary repair had been 
carried out.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster who inspected further, and costs were agreed with C and S in 
October 2019 for the repairs to be carried out. Those repairs  to be arranged by C and S  
were due to start in February 2020 but didnt. A dispute as to why thats the case remains. C 
and S say its because Miss Ks tenants hadnt moved out (to allow for repairs) and were 
refusing entry as they were intending on moving out soon. Miss K said this wasnt the case 
as the tenants were staying whilst the works were taking place.
Works ultimately started in March 2020 and continued until the keys were returned to Miss K 
in May 2020, with delays caused as a result of Covid-19 and other issues raised by C and S 
including additional strip out works.
AXA initially offered to cover one months loss of rent for Miss K in addition to any increased 
electricity costs, as thats how long the work was initially meant to take. However, it 
ultimately agreed to cover the loss of rent for the whole period the repairs were being carried 
out until the keys were returned to Miss K.
Unfortunately, Miss K thinks theres still a leak from the soil stack and doesnt think the
repairs have been carried out correctly because they werent signed off by a structural 
engineer. As such, the issue appears to be on-going. 
Miss K requested a copy of the policy schedule from AXA, but it said it was unable to provide 
it due to GDPR and the policy not being in her name. AXA did provide a copy of the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Miss K also brought a civil court case in the county court against C for breach of contract 
and compensation as a result of related issues. The court largely found in favour of Miss K 
and she was awarded a sum in damages. 
Miss K incurred legal fees in excess of £100,000 in the process which she made a claim to 
AXA for. She said the fees were covered by the policy and that shed been left with no 
alternative but to get legal advice and pursue and action through the courts due to the lack of 
help from AXA in relation to her claim.
AXA considered Miss Ks claim but confirmed it wouldnt cover her legal fees because they 
werent covered by the policy terms. Miss K disagreed and made a complaint to AXA. She 
complained at the same time that AXA had told her to carry out repairs to the soil stack 
which wasnt something she wasnt responsible for. 
AXA looked into Miss Ks complaint and issued its final response in February 2021; it didnt 
think itd done anything wrong. It said itd always taken any concerns shed raised seriously 
and that it wasnt responsible for the time taken to complete the repairs to her properties. 
AXA said it understood this was something shed taken up with S. AXA said it was unable to 
provide her with a copy of the policy schedule because its contract was with C and S who 
were the policyholders. AXA said, as such, the policy schedule contained sensitive data 
which it was unable to share. Finally, AXA said it didnt think the stress shed endured was 
the result of anything itd done. 
Unhappy with the outcome of AXAs investigation, Miss K made a complaint to this service in 
May 2021. She said that AXA had failed to notify her of the risks to her tenants remaining in a contaminated property. Miss K said shed asked AXA on numerous occasions if her 
tenants should vacate and that the loss adjuster had told her that wasnt necessary. Miss K 
thought this amounted to a health and safety breach by AXA. She also complained that AXA 
hadnt fast-tracked the repairs and that its negligently advised her to repair the soil stack. 
Miss K said that if shed followed AXAs advice to do so then she would have been in breach 
of her lease. Miss K said that since the remedial works shed been out of pocket for her legal 
expenses which AXA was failing to reimburse her for. Miss K said she had little option but to 
engage a solicitor and that the policy covers her for legal expenses which she was seeking 
in full. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
Principally he said that the policy terms didnt cover Miss K for the legal expenses she was 
claiming. He also said AXA hadnt unfairly declined to provide her with a copy of the policy 
schedule given she wasnt the policyholder and that there was no evidence it told her to 
repair the soil stack. 
Miss K disagreed with our investigators findings maintaining that the legal fees she paid her 
solicitor were covered by the policy and that she was allowed to see the policy schedule. 
Miss K said that her tenants shouldve been advised to move out and AXA compromised 
their health by not doing so. 
Our investigator asked Miss K to provide further information about exactly what it was her 
legal costs were incurred for. He also said that if she remained concerned about not being 
provided with a copy of the policy schedule then she may be better to raise that with the 
Information Commissioners Office. Our investigator said the evidence hed seen showed 
that AXA had offered to put Miss Ks tenants into alternative accommodation but they 
preferred to stay in the property and receive a 50% contribution towards their rent instead. 
And he said that, as landlord, the responsibility for the tenants health and safety rested with 
Miss K, not AXA. Finally, our investigator referred to an email that showed that AXA hadnt 
asked Miss K to repair the soil stack.
Miss K sent our investigator invoices from her solicitor relating to fees of £35,500 and asked 
our investigator to review the policy terms again. She also said her tenants were covered 
under the policy terms. Our investigator explained the cover for loss of rent was for 
receivable rent and her tenants werent beneficiaries under the policy. And he said that the 
two sections of the policy that related to legal cover didnt cover her for the fees she was 
claiming. 
Miss K said that the court decision had been overlooked and was binding on lower courts. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind so the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Miss K, Im unable to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
When considering Miss Ks complaint though Ive taken time to consider what issues relate 
to the actions of AXA and distinguished them from the actions of the property developer and 
management company (C and S). Thats because this service has no jurisdiction over the 
actions of C and S; we can only consider Miss Ks complaint insofar as it relates to AXAs 
actions as an insurance provider. I understand that C and S appointed contractors to carry out inspections and works and AXA appointed its loss adjusters to confirm costs. So it 
appears that AXAs involvement with the issue at the flats was confined to approving and 
paying for the insured damage. That means any delays caused as a result of the actions of 
C and S and/or the contractors appointed on their behalf arent something I can take into 
account here. 
claim for legal fees
The policy provides the following cover for legal expenses: 
Architects Surveyors Legal and Consulting Engineers Fees
An amount in respect oflegalfees necessarily incurred in the reinstatement or repair of 
the Property consequent upon its DAMAGE but not for preparing any claim [my 
emphasis].
This clause means that AXA will indemnify legal fees that were incurred as a necessity in the 
repair of the property as a result of it being damaged but not those fees incurred for 
preparing any claim. 
Ive seen the copy invoices from Miss Ks solicitor and barrister. The work detailed therein all 
pertains to the civil claim Miss K brought against C for breach of contract. I cant agree that 
they were necessarily incurred in the reinstatement or repair of the property. I know Miss K 
disagrees but Im unable to reasonably conclude otherwise. This clause relates to legal 
expenses incurred in getting the repairs covered by the policy carried out. And it specifically 
excludes cover for legal expenses incurred in preparing any claim. Having reviewed the copy 
invoices Miss K has provided, a fair interpretation of the work detailed as having been 
undertaken by her legal team is that associated with preparing her civil claim against C. 
I can see Miss K told our investigator that £35,500 of the total fees related to her solicitors 
getting the work completed on her flat and I can see that our investigator asked Miss K to 
provide more detail about this claim. But the information provided by Miss K was in 
connection with the civil claim against C and its preparation rather than any repairs covered 
by AXA. 
A second section of legal cover under the policy was also referred to by Miss K. That says: 
Professional Accountants and Legal Fees
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of reasonable fees payable by the 
Insured
(ii) to their lawyers for determining their contractual rights under any Rent cessor clause or 
insurance break clause contained in the lease but not for any other purposes in the 
preparation of any claim.
This clause covers legal fees incurred in the determination of any contractual right under a 
rent cessor or insurance break clause contained in the lease. Neither scenario extends to 
the fees Miss K seeks indemnity for. 
It is also worth noting that insured means the person or company named on the schedule; 
that is not Miss K. 
I appreciate that ultimately, the pursuit of the civil claim against C cost Miss K in excess of 
£100,000 in legal fees. But I cant fairly make AXA cover the fees she incurred where the 
policy terms dont provide indemnity for them. That wouldnt be reasonable. Whilst AXA may 
have indeed covered the surveyors fees Miss K incurred, ultimately it decided not to cover 
her legal fees because the policy terms didnt require it to.instruction to repair the soil stack
AXA provided an email from August 2019 which refers to the soil stack. It says:
That if your plumber could complete the repairs to the cistern pan within the confines of your
property and does not require access externally to the soil pipe, then you are responsible for
completing the repairs and should undertake these at your own cost. We have also been
advised that [S} have previously confirmed that you should complete the repairs. If you
do require access externally, I would suggest you make immediate contact with [S].
Ive seen no evidence that AXA told Miss K to repair the soil stack pipe. This email doesnt 
tell her to repair the soil stack pipe rather it says Miss K should contact S if works beyond the 
toilet cistern (which are her responsibility) were required. 
In relation to this aspect of her complaint Miss K referred to, and quoted from, an email from 
AXA which, she said, told her to carry out a repair to the soil stack pipe. Miss K said she was 
attaching a copy of that email to her email to this service. I note our investigator replied to 
Miss K to say that he hadnt received the copy email shed referred to.
Even by accepting the content of the email as quoted by Miss K, along with her assertion 
that, if shed adhered to AXAs instruction it wouldve led to her breaching her lease, the fact 
remains that she didnt repair the soil stack and she didnt breach her lease and so suffered 
no loss. So, even if I had seen the email evidence from which Miss K quoted, I wouldnt 
make an award in any event. It follows that I dont uphold this aspect of Miss Ks complaint. 
  
tenants covered under the policy
Miss K says her tenants are covered under Section 2 of the policy terms and that they are 
beneficiaries of the policy. Specifically the section referred to by Miss K provides cover for 
loss of rent to the policyholder in certain circumstances; it doesnt extend to Miss Ks 
tenants. They arent beneficiaries under the policy and, whilst Miss K asserts that they are I 
note that she hasnt stated where in the policy it says so. 
policy schedule
Miss K has complained that she requested a copy of the policy schedule from AXA and that 
it has refused to provide it. Whilst Miss K can be said to be a beneficiary under the policy 
she is not the policyholder. The policy is in the name of another legal entity and I wouldnt 
expect AXA, having regard to data protection legislation, to provide her with a copy without 
the permission of the policyholders. It is unclear to me if Miss K has approached C and S 
directly for a copy but I cant fairly hold AXA responsible for withholding a document 
containing the confidential data pertaining to another entity.
Miss K says that GDPR regulations allow her to have access to all information relating to her 
home as she is the legal owner. She hasnt referenced the specific rules upon which she 
relies or what personal data she believes AXA to be concealing, but I note she has since 
made a subject access request to AXA and has obtained the information she sought. 
health and safety risk to tenants
Miss K complains that AXA didnt move her tenants into alternative accommodation (AA). 
But Ive seen evidence that shows that AXA offered to provide Miss Ks tenants with AA 
during the repairs but that they chose to remain in situ and instead receive a 50% 
contribution towards their rent payments. I consider AXA to have acted fairly in this regard. If Miss Ks tenants were in any way concerned about remaining in the flat, AXAs offer to move 
them into AA was available to them.
Miss K has referenced the Grenfell Tower tragedy in connection with this aspect of her 
complaint. She says her tenants should have been advised on the grounds of health and 
safety to vacate and that AXA compromised their health. Im unable to agree. As landlord of 
the property, it also falls to her to ensure the health and safety of her tenants is safeguarded. 
If she had concerns around their safety due to issues with the property, then she wouldve 
also been in a position to request them to temporarily leave the property temporarily until the 
works were completed.
Miss K has said, in the alternative, that AXA shouldve advised her to move her tenants out. 
Its my view that AXA did all that it was required to do by offering the tenants AA. It is my 
understanding that, despite this offer, it was ultimately the tenants decision to remain.
Whilst Miss K has referenced the Grenfell Tower incident, I dont feel it to be appropriate or 
relevant to comment upon it in relation to her complaint.
county court decision
Miss K says she was told that a senior investigator/ombudsman would be overseeing her 
complaint because she had a county court judgment for breach of contract in her favour. She 
says this is binding on lower courts but that we have failed to review the entirety of her 
complaint. 
I have read the county court judgment. It relates to an action brought by Miss K against C, 
not AXA. This complaint is against AXA. This service is not a court and we arent bound by 
county court judgments. I can see that the judgment isnt directly, or indirectly applicable to 
Miss Ks complaint about AXA. AXA is the insurance provider and had no involvement in the 
court proceedings. 
And the claim Miss K brought related to breach of the sale contract of the property and 
issues in relation to the soil stack pipe (not covered by AXA because they are excluded 
under the poor workmanship exclusion in the policy). 
This service only has jurisdiction to consider complaints against financial service providers  
like AXA  and not against property developers. As such the contents of the county court 
judgement  whilst providing useful background  have no bearing on the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Miss K also complains that we havent considered the part of the county court judgment 
confirming that the property was defective. But the defective issues are raised against C and 
are not the responsibility of AXA insurance as it wasnt party to the claim.
claim handling
I can see AXA actively chased and engaged with C and S to try and get the claim resolved. 
Because C and S were arranging the repairs themselves I dont think theres anything further 
AXA couldve done in relation to this.
For the same reason, whilst I do appreciate there were delays in the repairs to Miss Ks 
property, from the evidence Ive seen I cant fairly say they were the result of any inactions 
by AXA. I can see that whenever AXA were asked to approve costs and confirm works could be 
carried out, this was done either the same day or within a reasonable timeframe, so I cant 
fairly say AXA is responsible for any avoidable delays.
Miss K has also said AXA didnt take her concerns around the soil stack pipe seriously,
however Ive noted it referred her back to C and S in relation to this issue because it wasnt 
something covered under the policy. 
Miscellaneous
Miss K says that we havent considered the clause in her lease that requires C to keep the 
property in a good state of repair and condition. Thats because the lease is between Miss K 
and C. This is principally a complaint about AXA not paying Miss Ks claim for legal 
expenses. It has nothing to do with the lease and this service has no jurisdiction to consider 
any complaint against C in relation to the lease. 
I accept that what happened must have been very stressful and upsetting for Miss K but this 
services rules only permit it to consider complaints against financial businesses. This has 
been a complaint about the actions of AXA and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way it handled Miss Ks claim and the issues she raised and, for the reasons given, I think it 
did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman