DRN-4306436
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Tandem 
Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) rejected his claims under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
1974 in respect of a holiday product. I gather the product was purchased by Mr T and his 
wife, but the loan is in his name and so he is the eligible complainant. In this decision for 
simplicity I will refer to Mr T as the sole purchaser. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had made a number of purchases of holiday products from a company I will 
call A. I gather the previous ones were funded by loans taken out by Mrs T with a different 
lender. In October 2018 they purchased a points based membership at a cost of £15,000. Mr 
T says that he was assured that the new purchase was the same as the old ones and it 
would be possible to transfer the points to other family members or third parties. Having 
given a digital signature he left the meeting. He was only able to access the website some 
six weeks later and then discovered what he had bought was not what he thought he had 
signed for. 
In April 2021 PR submitted a letter of claim to Tandem. In short it said that:
The product was misrepresented as it had been sold as an investment.
There had been a breach of contract as A was in liquidation.
Mr T had been pressurised.
No affordability checks had been carried out.
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010, SI 2010/2960 had been broken.
The membership fees had increased.
There was an unfair relationship as set out in s.140 A CCA.
Tandem rejected the claim and gave detailed rebuttal of each point raised by PR. A 
complaint was brought to this service by PR where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said there was insufficient evidence 
that there had been misrepresentation. As for the breach of contract she noted A had been 
taken over by another company and there was no evidence that the contract had not been 
fulfilled. Nor did she think the material presented to her showed there had been an unfair 
relationship. She also noted that there was no evidence that the lending was unaffordable.
PR didnt agree and said that Mr T had been told his purchase was and investment which 
was desirable and easily resalable. It added that the various sales between 2016 and 2018 
were churning and Mr T had been subjected to pressure. It believed As resale programme 
had been discontinued and A had not provided sufficient information as required by the 2010 
Regulations in order for Mr T to have made an informed choice. Mr T only discovered when 
he was able to log on to As website that he didnt have the points for the holidays he 
wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S.75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. So, this 
means that Mr T may be afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those 
provisions. As a result, Ive taken this section into account together with any other relevant 
sections of the CCA when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being considered here 
specifically relates to whether I believe Tandems treatment of Mr Ts claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. 
PR has made a number of claims, but has not submitted much evidence in support of them. I 
have noted Mr Ts testimony, but I have not seen a copy of the agreement signed by Mr T 
nor any other paperwork supplied by A at the time of sale. PR has simply made several 
assertions which are not supported by the documentary evidence. 
Breach of Contract
I do not believe that the liquidation of A in 2020 led to a breach of contract. New 
management companies were appointed, and Mr T was able to use the timeshare as usual 
after that date.
In July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said: The JLs are pleased to 
confirm that FNTC has taken over as the new manager of the Clubs and further confirm that, 
as a result, the Clubs will continue to operate for the benefit of members.
I consider it reasonable to presume this, or a similar communication was sent to Mr T. On 
the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Ts purchase of the points remain available 
to him and are unaffected by the liquidation. Indeed the agreement he signed allowed for the 
liquidation of A and its replacement by another provider.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to enter into the contract.
PR has said that Mr T was told that his purchase was an investment. It also supplied written 
testimony from Mr T as to what he recalled being told. While I was not present I do not 
consider that I am able to conclude the product was misrepresented. I have seen no 
explanation of how that could be the case or why Mr T believed that the purchase of points 
would be an investment. If he had been told that  or had otherwise believed that to be the 
case  I would have expected him to ask for more information.
In any event I note Tandem has explained the contract shows, the resale facility was not 
available to Mr T until one year following the first year of occupancy which is at the earliest 
2020. It added that in 2020 a worldwide pandemic began with little or no holiday travel and 
compromised resale opportunities. In normal market conditions if Mr T wanted to sell his 
points, a resale of points may well have been achieved.
S. 140A claims
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr T and Tandem 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s. 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr T could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Lloyds anyway.
Mr Ts alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Tandem assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
I appreciate Mr T is dissatisfied with his purchase and he has my sympathies for this, but, in 
summary I cannot see why any of his claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Tandem acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
As such I can see no basis for a successful claim under s.140A. Nor do I think the alleged 
pressure to which PR says Mr T had been subjected at the time of the sale would allow me 
to uphold his complaint.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. Tandem has said that it carried out a full credit and affordability 
check and Mr T met its lending criteria.
Our investigator said that she could not see any evidence that Mr T found the loan unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if Tandem did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for 
me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr T lost 
out as a result of its failings. Mr T has provided no evidence whatsoever that he would have 
found, nor did he find, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point 
further.
Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mr T has a claim against A, or whether he might therefore 
have a like claim under s. 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make orders under s. 
140A and s. 140A of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a credit agreement 
creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it.
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ts 
complaint. In the circumstances, I think that Tandems response to Mr Ts claims was fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman