DRN-2588006
The complaint
Ms O says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms O bought the policy in 1996 in connection with a Marks & Spencer personal reserve 
account that she applied for by post. Allianz Insurance plc has taken responsibility for this 
complaint, so for simplicity Ill just refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision.   
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint because:
 I think Allianz made Ms O aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because she did tick the box on the account application form to say she 
wanted the cover. So I think Ms O wouldve realised she had a choice about taking 
the PPI.
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms O so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But even if it had recommended the policy, I dont think it was unsuitable for 
Ms O. Even though she says she would have received some employer benefits 
similar to the kind the PPI provided, the policy would have paid out in addition to 
those benefits. So I think the policy wouldve been helpful to Ms O if she couldnt 
work. 
 Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Ms O would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman