DRN-3470457
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the settlement his motor insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, 
offered to him for his car, which had been damaged beyond repair by a fire. He also thinks it 
took too long to make the offer.
What happened
Mr M owned a classic car which he had extensively restored. On 7 September 2021 a fire 
damaged the car beyond repair. Mr M made a claim to Ageas. On 17 September 2021, 
Ageas said it would settle Mr Ms claim for £14,000 and Mr M told Ageas that was too low, 
his car was worth around £30,000. He sent Ageas a link to what he said was a similar car for 
sale for £33,000. Ageas didnt think the car was similar because it was a factory fresh 
model (meaning it hadnt been restored as Mr Ms had). Ageas said it had checked classic 
car guides and completed internet research, all of which showed £14,000 sat at the top end 
of the market value for Mr Ms car. Mr M complained to us.
Mr M said he felt Ageas had refused to engage with him  whilst he had offered to send it his 
files on the restoration of the car, it had refused to consider them. He said he had wanted to 
meet the engineer so he could explain the extent of the work he had done, but this hadnt 
been agreed to. He said during October and into November he heard nothing from Ageas, 
until its final response on the settlement value was received (around the same time Mr M 
complained to us). That letter also offered £150 compensation as Ageas accepted there had 
been some delays during the claim. Ageas followed that letter with an offer of interim 
payment to Mr M of the £14,000 settlement offer. It explained that accepting the offer 
wouldnt affect Mr Ms complaint. Mr M declined the offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Ageas had fairly and reasonably 
arrived at the market value figure offered to Mr M in settlement for his car. She felt the 
compensation offered was also fair and reasonable.
Mr M said his restored car, arguably, is worth more than a factory fresh car as, for 
example, the parts of his car were new. He said the minimum Ageas should pay him is 
£15,000 as the classic car owners club had valued his car at that price. But, he said, there 
were also plenty of similar cars available on the internet for sale between £15,000 and 
£20,000, against which the configuration and restoration of his car were far superior. 
Our investigator reviewed matters again, including the details of the example cars Mr M had 
put forward. She felt they werent good comparisons as they werent the same model as 
Mr Ms car. She wasnt minded to change her view and Mr Ms complaint was passed for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this car had immense sentimental value for Mr M  it was given to him a 
number of years ago for a significant anniversary and since then, before the fire, he had 
applied all his care and not insignificant skill to lovingly rebuild it. Having seen all of the 
photos and details of the car before the fire, it seems it was restored to a superb condition. 
Im also aware of the traumatic events of the fire, although I cant set out the detail about 
them here. But, knowing all that, and having considered the available evidence about the 
claim, I think Ageas came to a fair and reasonable decision. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy was one of market value. That is in the event of damage which causes the car 
to be irreparable, Ageas will pay Mr M the market value for the car. And, as our investigator 
explained, this service doesnt get involved in actually valuing the car. Rather we consider 
what the insurer did to see if it completed the calculation fairly and reasonably. 
Here I can see that Ageas did take into account details from some classic car trade guides. 
But the values they returned for Mr Ms car were quite varied, ranging from £5,500 to 
£11,500. I note Ageas also carried out some internet research, looking for similar cars to 
Mr Ms which were for sale at that time. I can see the values for the cars found also varied, 
between £8,500 and £12,727. And I think its fair to say the details on those cars varied 
somewhat too. Some were manufactured a few years later than Mr Ms car, and most had 
done many more miles. But one at £10,000 was fairly similar in that it was just one year 
older than Mr Ms car, had done only 8,000 more miles and was advertised as having been a 
complete nuts and bolts rebuild.
I note that Ageas also took into account the details of the car Mr M found for sale at circa 
£33,000. That car was the same year of manufacture as Mr Ms, and had done a similar 
amount of miles. But I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude this car wasnt like Mr Ms 
because it hadnt been through an extensive rebuild process. I know Mr M thinks that his car 
 because it was subject to new parts, for example  should be worth more than an original 
40-year old car. But, with respect, I dont think Mr M is viewing things objectively. Mr M 
knows the care and skill he put into his car.  An average buyer though, looking at cars for 
sale in the general marketplace, just sees rebuilt and (although they are likely rare) original 
cars. Now I think that most buyers would make allowances for things like parts being older 
on original cars. But I think theyd also reasonably value a manufacturer built car more highly 
than one rebuilt by an individual. So, I think its fair to say that in the general marketplace it 
isnt reasonable to base the value for a rebuilt car on the asking price of a currently for sale, 
original model.
Id add that asking prices are also not usually reflective of the sale prices actually achieved 
for a car. I think its relevant that the original model car, whilst seeming to have reduced 
slightly in price, since Mr M first found it, still hasnt sold. That might well be because it is 
overpriced. In any event Ive looked at the other examples Mr M provided for cars ranging 
between £15,000 and £20,000. But, like our investigator, I note they are not the same model 
and/or year as Mr Ms car. I know Mr M believes that is in his favour, as his car is of a better 
design and has been skilfully rebuilt. But I think it is fair to say again, that this opinion is not 
given from an objective viewpoint. It is a bit like someone who likes apples arguing apples 
are better than oranges. Clearly someone who likes oranges will have a different view. 
I dont doubt how strongly Mr M feels about his car. But I cant reasonably assume his car is 
worth as much as or more than other different models for sale just because he believes, 
however strongly, that is the case. The market is a varied one, catering for many tastes, 
pocket sizes and aspirations. As such, in determining a market value for a particular car, if 
sale prices can be relied upon at all, it is only fair and reasonable to compare only those for 
cars similar to the one in question. 
I know Mr M had a valuation from the owners club at £15,000. And that the top value 
allowed for by his policy was also £15,000. So, Ive factored that in then to determine what range of market value there might be for Mr Ms car. In addition to that figure, theres the 
sale price of the only car considered even similar to Mr Ms, of £10,000. Theres also Ageas 
top guide price for the market value from the classic car guides of £11,500. Giving a range of 
£10,000 to £15,000. With the £14,000 set as the market value by Ageas which is sitting well 
above the two price markers at the bottom end of the scale. In setting that value, Ageas has 
accepted, I think, that Mr Ms car had been extensively and expertly restored. If it hadnt, 
I think Ageas would likely have made a much lower offer to Mr M. So, I dont think that 
Ageas arranging to view and/or discuss the restoration data with Mr M would have changed 
anything. I consider that Ageas determined the market value fairly and reasonably. 
Ageas has accepted there were delays in dealing with Mr Ms claim. And I note that whilst it 
made its offer of settlement within ten days of the incident occurring, when Mr M sent it 
information as requested to challenge that position, it was only when Mr M chased a reply 
around two weeks later that Ageas shared with him its views on that data. It seems Ageas 
intended to review things further at that point, but then dealt with the matter as a complaint 
instead, issuing its final response. And it was only after that, it then offered to make an 
interim payment to Mr M for the £14,000. That was about two months after the initial offer 
was made. Settling on an interim basis should really have been offered to Mr M before then. 
But I note that Mr M didnt accept the interim offer even when it was made.  
In some situations, where an offer has been made which doesnt later change and where 
Ive found the offer was fairly and reasonably made, I might not be inclined to award any 
compensation at all for an insurer just delaying a reply by a few weeks. Thats because 
sometimes minor upset caused by that type of failure can reasonably be expected when 
dealing with a financial business. But this was clearly an upsetting situation for Mr M, and 
I can see that Ageas actions came across to him as uncaring and dismissive. I accept he 
was caused more than just minor upset by its actions. Upset which could have been avoided 
if it had taken a little more care. That said it has offered £150 compensation and I think that 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If it had offered nothing, I likely wouldnt be 
inclined to say that more than that was due.
My final decision
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr M, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I dont make any award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman