DRN-2120296
The complaint
Mr A complains about Help Your Claim Limited (HYC) chasing him for a payment he had 
already made.
What happened
HYC was successful in gaining compensation for Mr A for mis-sold PPI. In February 2018, 
Mr A sent HYC a cheque for around £800 to settle an invoice for its fee.
 
In December 2018, HYC started to phone and text Mr A, chasing for payment of its fee. Mr A 
says he sent HYC a copy of his bank statement to show that hed already paid it. But HYC 
says it didnt receive this. In February 2020, it wrote to Mr A to inform him it intended to pass 
his debt to a recovery company.
Mr A complained to HYC, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had done all 
the necessary checks to ensure the payment hadnt cleared its account. It wasnt its fault the 
cheque had bounced. If Mr A couldnt provide evidence of the payment leaving his account 
and couldnt settle the outstanding balance, it would pass his account over to a debt 
collection agency.
Following this, Mr A got a copy of the cheque from his bank and sent it to HYC, who 
managed to locate the payment. HYC apologised to Mr A but he didnt think this was 
sufficient. He felt he was due compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced. Hed had to make two visits to a bank branch a half hour drive away to get a 
copy of the cheque. And hed had to take time off work to do this. So, he brought his 
complaint to our service
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. 
She recommended HYC pay Mr A £200 for the frustration and inconvenience hed 
experienced.
HYC disagreed with our investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
HYC says a note was left on Mr As account in December 2018 advising the cheque hed 
paid in February 2018, never cleared. It assumes its accounts department noticed a 
discrepancy when it was consolidating the end of year finances. 
It says Mr A agreed to send documentation showing the cheque had cleared in March 2018. 
But HYC didnt receive this so its automated system sent him a final reminder letter advising 
the fee was overdue. It asked Mr A for documents showing the amount had left his account 
when he phoned HYC in April. It says it didnt receive the statement Mr A says he sent in 
around June / July 2018, so it continued to request information. It also had difficulty 
contacting Mr A over the phone.
HYC says that if Mr A had provided a statement showing the payment leaving the account 
and not bouncing back when it had asked him to, it could have resolved the issue much 
sooner. It couldnt query this with its bank without the documentation as it was untraceable 
on HYCs side.
 
I appreciate HYC feels that it could have resolved things much sooner if it had received the 
documentation it had requested from Mr A. Its possible HYC didnt receive the statement  
Mr A says he sent in mid-2018. But HYC now accepts that Mr As cheque cleared back in 
early 2018. So, I think there is likely to have been an error on HYCs part.  
With this in mind, Ive gone on to consider the impact of this error on Mr A. It was frustrating 
for him to receive multiple contact from HYC chasing him for money hed already paid. And it 
was particularly distressing when he was told the debt would be passed on to a debt 
collection agency. Mr A contacted HYC several times over a period of more than a year, to 
try to get the matter resolved. He also had to take time off work to travel into a bank branch 
on two occasions. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think it would be fair for HYC to pay Mr A £200 to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Putting things right
HYC should pay Mr A £200 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Help Your Claim Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman