DRN-3272651
Complaint
Ms B has complained about a credit card Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) 
provided to her. She says the credit card and subsequent credit limit increases shouldnt 
have been provided because she already had a poor credit history.
Background
Creation initially provided Ms B with a credit card in May 2011. The credit limit eventually 
reached £1,300.00. One of our investigators reviewed what Ms Bs complaint and he thought 
Creation shouldnt have provided Ms B with her credit card or increased the credit limit. 
Creation didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Bs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Creation needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms B 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with almost two years to do so, Creation hasnt provided anything at 
all about the checks it carried out before it provided Ms B with her credit card, or agreed to 
increase her credit limit. I find Creations lack of a response and its apparent disregard of its 
DISP 1 obligations to be extremely disappointing. Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information 
Ms B has provided about her circumstances at the time in an attempt to decide what I think 
reasonable and proportionate checks are more likely than not to have shown Creation. 
I think reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have involved finding out about    
Ms Bs income and, at least some of, her expenditure. The information Ms B has provided 
suggested that she entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) in the not too distant 
future after this card was provided. I can also see other accounts which were provided in and 
around this time period and which also got into difficulty too.
So Im persuaded by what Ms B has said about having a poor credit history and an inability 
to pay at the time. And while its possible she could have entered into a DMP through choice 
rather than because she couldnt afford to repay her creditors, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Creation, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Bs 
version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Bs existing debts meant that she was unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to this credit card, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about 
Ms Bs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown 
Creation that it shouldnt have provided this credit card to Ms B, in the first place, or 
increased the credit limit. As Creation provided Ms B with this credit card, notwithstanding 
this, Im satisfied that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on credit she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms B lost out because of what Creation did wrong and 
that it should put things right.
Creation should put things right by reworking Ms Bs account so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from the outset are removed. The effect of removing these interest, fees 
and charges will result in Ms B having paid Creation more than she needed to by the time 
her balance was cleared. So the extra Ms B paid should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to her along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement. Creation should also remove any adverse information it 
recorded on Ms Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Creation Financial Services 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman