DRN-3850599
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as S complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) unfairly 
returned to its customers various payments that were intended for its account. S says the 
banks action caused it reputational damage, management time as well as financial loss for 
which it believes Starling should pay compensation. 
In bringing this complaint S is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr J.  
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail.  
Briefly:
In February 2022 S opened a USD account (the Account) with Starling.  
In July 2022 Mr J contacted Starling to say that a number of Ss customers had been 
in contact to say that payments theyd attempted to send to the Account were being 
returned and furthermore, they were being charged $US30 each time that happened. 
So, Mr J asked Starling to look into things. 
Starling told Mr J that the bank could only receive payments into USD accounts if 
such payments were being made using the Automated Clearing House (ACH) 
system. However, to investigate matters further, Starling asked Mr J to provide full 
details of the returned payments, including the date, amount and ACH trace ID 
number. 
Starling also said that if the sending bank couldnt provide ACH trace ID numbers, 
that would indicate the payments had been attempted via Swift. As payments 
couldnt be accepted via Swift, this was likely to be the reason for the payments 
being returned. 
Mr J didnt respond to the banks request. 
On 16 August 2022, Starling issued their final response letter to S. They believed 
theyd dealt with the payments from Ss customers appropriately on the basis the 
customers hadnt used, as they should have done, the ACH system when making 
those payments. They didnt think they were at fault therefore, when the payments 
were returned to Ss customers. 
S didnt agree and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that information on Starlings 
website clearly explained that payments being made to a USD account had to be done using 
the ACH process. And she wasnt persuaded the payments to the Account by Ss customers 
were made accordingly. So, she concluded Starling wasnt at fault when they werent 
accepted into the Account.
S did not accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf Mr J said the complaint wasnt 
looked into properly. In particular, Mr J didnt think the investigator had taken sufficient 
account of the significant financial loss he believed S has incurred because of the banks 
actions. Mr J said that because of the banks failures, payments from Ss customers were 
received two to three months after they were invoiced and during that time due to 
movements in exchange rates S lost around £2,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
I start by saying how sorry I am to hear that S experienced the difficulties it did receiving 
payments into the Account, and I appreciate this would have caused some frustration.
But for me to uphold Ss complaint I would need to be satisfied that it was because of 
something Starling did wrong that such payments werent credited to the Account but instead 
returned to Ss customers. 
S hasnt disputed its customers did not make payments using ACH process. And for US 
dollar payments to be credited to the Account, that had to be done through that process. In 
all likelihood it would appear that Ss customers did not make their payments through the 
ACH process, perhaps because they were not aware of that requirement. But I dont think I 
can fairly hold Starling responsible for that. 
Starling have confirmed that S applied for the Account in February 2022 through their App. 
Starling further explained that when S did so, as part of the application process it would have 
been directed towards a link which, when opened, would have been taken S to the relevant 
pages containing information on how the Account operated - including the requirement that 
US dollar payments into the Account had to be by way of ACH. In this connection also, 
Starling also points to other helpful information on their website which Ill come to later. 
I have looked at Starlings website and in particular the application process for their USD 
accounts. In doing so Ive noted the information that would have been available to S when 
applying for the Account - including the section entitled:
Payments  which says:
Youll be able to make and receive as many payments as you like via the ACH payment 
network, with no charge/fee per payment. Unfortunately, we cannot support incoming or 
outgoing SWIFT payments (please find out more about supported payment types under 
Some things to note). 
In Some things to note the following information is provided:
You wont be able to send or receive wire transfer payments, SWIFT payments or 
international payments with the business USD account. 
And as noted above, Starling also points to further information on their website including 
under the sub-heading: Which types of payments can I send and receive to my business USD account?  where the 
following is explained:
Currently you can only send and receive payments via the ACH network. This means that 
you cannot currently receive payments made by Fedwire/SWIFT into your business USD 
account; 
Also, in another sub-heading:
Can I make Fedwire transfers out of, or receive Fedwire transfers into my business USD 
account? 
This too explains:
Your business USD account can only support ACH (Automated Clearing House) payments 
for sending and receiving funds. If you would like to make a Fedwire transfer, this can be 
done from your business GBP account.
Based therefore on the above, Im satisfied Starling provided S with sufficient information for 
S to be reasonably aware of the constraints associated with the Account when it comes to 
US dollar payments. Therefore, I havent been persuaded that Starling were at fault when 
payments made by Ss customers were not accepted into the Account because they were 
not made using the process that enabled that to happen. And although I anticipate this will 
come as disappointing news for S, I cannot reasonably blame the bank for the return of such 
payments and loss Mr J has told us S sustained arising from it. 
My final decision
 For the reasons stated above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman