DRN-4424695
The complaint
Miss C complains that JN Bank UK Ltd did not give her the information she asked for and 
they provided her with poor customer service. 
What happened
Miss C says that she sent JN Bank a secured message asking if she would be charged for 
settling her account early. She said that she received a response which told her they would 
never charge her for making extra payments or for settling her loan account early, and they 
encouraged it as over the term of the loan she would pay less interest and settle her loan 
quicker. Miss C says that in response to this message she immediately asked for a 
settlement figure for her account, but she says the amount it said to settle the loan was also 
the same amount as if she were to keep the loan.
Miss C says that she asked JN Bank for a copy of her account statement under Section 77B 
of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) so she could analyse the account. She said while she 
initially requested this on 1 October 2022, she received two responses and a final response 
from JN Bank a number of days apart with incorrect information, and none of the documents 
show the information she requested. She said JN Bank had ignored emails she had sent. 
Miss C says that had she been provided the information when she asked for it, she could 
have settled her loan early, which would have given her some relief to the monthly payments 
she is now making. Miss C made a complaint to JN Bank. 
JN Bank told Miss C to find attached to their email the requested information under Section 
77B of the CCA 1974. They apologised for any inconvenienced caused and thanked her for 
her patience during the investigation. Miss C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint in part. She said while the balance shown by JN 
Bank was fair and in line with regulation, the information which had been provided was 
unclear, so JN Bank should pay Miss C with £75 for failing to provide her with clear 
information to how the figure was calculated. Miss C asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Ive looked at the information request that Miss C sent JN Bank on 1 October 2022. Im 
satisfied she was clear in what she was asking them to provide. Im also satisfied that she 
was entitled to ask for this information, and the business should have provided this 
information as it is set out in her credit agreement that Under section 77B of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, you have the right to receive, on request, and free of charge, at any time 
throughout the duration of this agreement, a statement showing (a) details of each 
instalment owing under this agreement; (b) the date on which each instalment is due, the 
amount and any conditions relating to the payment of the instalment; and (c) a breakdown of 
each instalment showing how much comprises (i) capital repayment, (ii) interest payment 
and (iii) if applicable, any other charges.
So I can understand Miss Cs frustration when JN Bank sent her information under Section 
77A of the CCA instead  and on more than one occasion, which was not the information 
she was asking for. 
When Miss C did receive information under Section 77B of the CCA, it did not include all of 
the information that she asked for and that she was entitled to receive. Miss C believed there 
was no reduction in the balance if she paid this earlier than the scheduled loan end date due 
to the information provided by JN Bank, and she believed the figures were incorrect. I can 
see the balance shown on the 24 October 2022 statement was £8,412.23. This was the 
correct figure though as shown on the front page of this statement, Miss Cs original loan 
which she took out was for £12,000. Her credit agreement shows that the total she would 
pay over the term was £14,155.20 (if she didnt make any overpayments). 
The statement dated 24 October 2022 shows that from the £12,000 that they loaned her, 
she had made payments totalling £4,718.40 (although I have calculated this as the total 
wasnt displayed on the statement). I could also calculate that from the £4,718.40 paid, if I 
added all of the principal amount payments (her total monthly payment is part principal and 
part interest) this came to £3,587.77. So as Miss C had borrowed £12,000 and had paid 
£3,587.77 off this balance at this point in time, this is why the figure of £8,412.23 was correct 
(£12,000 - £3,587.77). 
The reason Miss C didnt have a higher figure and a lower figure is because the balance was 
given on the date of the statement. So this wasnt higher than the total amount left to pay as 
if Miss C had settled her loan then, she wouldnt have future interest to pay by paying off her 
loan early. But Im satisfied the figure on the 24 October 2022 statement was correct. 
But JN Bank let Miss C down by not giving her all of the information she asked for and they 
sent her information which she didnt ask for relating to a different section of the CCA. This 
inconvenienced Miss C to have to keep contacting JN Bank to keep chasing them up for the 
correct information she asked for. And even when she received information for the relevant 
section of the CCA, all of the information wasnt provided even though the credit agreement 
stated they would show this. 
So because of these factors, Im satisfied that this would have caused Miss C distress, and 
she was inconvenienced by having to chase JN Bank for the relevant information. And she 
felt that her emails were being ignored. Im satisfied that £75 compensation recognises the 
impact of JN Bank letting down Miss C and that she had to keep communicating with them 
when the relevant information should have been sent to her the first time as her request was 
clear. So it follows Ill be asking JN Bank to put things right for Miss C.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that JN Bank pays Miss C £75 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. JN Bank UK Ltd should pay Miss C £75 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience (less anything they have already paid her).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman