DRN-4317222
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the service she received from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
when she claimed on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M was on a ski holiday when she had an accident and sustained a significant fracture. 
She was unable to contact IPA via their emergency assistance number and resorted to 
social media. IPA got in touch with Mrs M and asked her to complete some initial paperwork. 
Mrs M didnt hear anything further and made her own arrangements to get home. She says 
that the 14-hour journey home, shortly after shed had surgery, affected her recovery and her 
mental health. 
Mrs M complained to IPA. They upheld her complaint and offered £400 compensation. They 
accepted there had been an administrative error which meant the case hadnt been referred 
to the medical team. This meant Mrs M didnt receive any assistance whilst abroad or 
support with returning home. Mrs M didnt think this was fair compensation and referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought the compensation offered by 
IPA was fair and reasonable. She didnt think IPA were aware that Mrs M was due to be 
discharged so soon after they spoke to her. She also noted that Mrs M hadnt contacted IPA 
again when she was discharged so they werent able to offer assistance. 
Mrs M asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She doesnt think that £400 
compensation fairly reflected the distress and anxiety she experienced. She explained that 
she only undertook the journey home to get back home for emotional reasons. Mrs M also 
explained that her surgeon has said that she was at high risk of Deep Vein Thrombosis 
(DVT) and this wasnt advisable. In summary she didnt agreed that £400 compensated her 
fairly for the mental scars of her experience. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
There were clearly failings in the service Mrs M received. She couldnt contact the 
emergency number despite trying a number of times. Her case wasnt passed to the medical 
team and she didnt get any help or assistance. So, theres no dispute that IPA didnt handle 
the case as they should have done. 
The key issue for me to decide is whether the £400 compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable. I think it is because: 
Mrs M explained she was in a hospital, where she didnt speak the language and 
felt frightened and alone. I can understand this was a difficult time and that Mrs M 
felt she wasnt supported as she wasnt able to contact IPA. However, Mrs M 
didnt discuss with IPA how she was feeling when they spoke to her on 17 
February to open the case. She didnt explain this until after shed returned to the 
UK and so IPA didnt have the chance to address those concerns whilst she was 
abroad. 
Mrs M was able to access emergency treatment and this was covered by the 
Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC). So, even though Mrs M wasnt able to get 
in touch with IPA, she was able to access the emergency medical treatment she 
needed. 
The call on the 17 February included some discussion about next steps. At that 
time Mrs M hadnt seen a doctor following her surgery and she didnt know 
whether she would be able to get her original flight as planned. Given that her 
surgery had only taken place the previous day I think IPA reasonably considered 
it was unlikely Mrs M would be discharged in time to make her original flight. The 
medical team got in touch with Mrs M on the 19 February for an update and were 
clearly surprised to hear shed returned home. 
I appreciate that Mrs M wanted to get home for emotional reasons. But I still think 
it would have been reasonable for her to contact IPA to update them on her 
discharge and plans to catch her original flight. Mrs M said that she tried to call 
once, and the call cut off. However, she acknowledged that she wasnt in an area 
with good signal. I think it would have reasonable for Mrs M to discuss her plans 
with IPA before travelling. IPA would have then had the opportunity to discuss 
what assistance they could offer her with her original flight or to get her home at a 
later date. So, I dont think I can fairly say that IPA were responsible for Mrs Ms 
difficult journey home in the circumstances of this case. 
Mrs M has mentioned that her consultant has said it was risky that she flew and 
there was a high risk of DVT. These are some of the risks IPA would have 
typically discussed with the treating team before repatriating Mrs M, particularly 
after surgery. However, as Ive outlined above IPA werent aware that Mrs M was 
travelling home on her original flight so were not able to assess those risks.   
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay £400 if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman