DRN-1206141
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the information Nationwide Building Society gave to him about a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has a current account with Nationwide. In August 2017, it sent him a letter about travel 
insurance.
Mr M says he spoke to someone at Nationwide in 2017 about adding the travel insurance to 
his account but was told he would need to pay additional premiums due to pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMCs). He says Nationwide failed to make it clear that he could still 
have cover without the additional premiums if the PEMCs were excluded. 
Mr M complained to Nationwide and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Nationwide had done anything 
wrong. He had asked Nationwide for copies of its telephone call logs but it hadnt been able 
to locate any conversations with Mr M. It also said it had no record of the person Mr M says 
he spoke to, working for it, at the time. And so our investigator reviewed a copy of the letter 
which was sent to Mr M in 2017. He felt the letter made it clear that Mr M could still have 
travel insurance with PEMCs excluded. 
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr M said he has telephone records of the 
conversation he had with Nationwide and the call could be traced. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he spoke to someone at Nationwide in 2017 after receiving a letter about travel 
insurance as part of his bank account. He has provided the staff members name to us. But 
Nationwide has told us that it has no record of a person by that name working for it at the 
time. And it hasn't been able to locate any calls with Mr M from that time. 
Mr M told us he could provide details of the time and date of the call from his own records. 
Despite asking him for this information, Mr M hasnt provided it and so Im unable to consider 
this any further. 
And so Ive then looked at a copy of the letter which was sent to Mr M in 2017. The letter 
confirms travel insurance can be tailored to a customers needs and can be extended to cover PEMCs by contacting the underwriter directly. It says: when you calltheyll be able 
to tell you if your cover can be extended for the condition (please remember, there may be a 
fee to extend your cover).
The letter confirms the policy does not provide cover for pre-existing medical conditions 
unless declared to, and accepted by us. An extra premium may be required
Having considered the above, Im satisfied that the letter makes it sufficiently clear that cover 
can still be provided with PEMCs excluded. And that if a customer wanted to enquire about 
cover for PEMCs, they would need to contact the underwriter directly. I appreciate Mr M will 
be disappointed with my conclusions. But in the absence of any further evidence, I cant say 
Nationwide gave incorrect or misleading information to Mr M
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman