DRN-2955864
The complaint
Mr M complains about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited recording a debt as in default 
when it shouldnt have been. Hes also unhappy theyve not accepted his repayment 
proposal, and theyve taken too long to provide him with information hes asked for.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card with a lender  Ill call them B. After experiencing significant 
financial difficulties, he says he entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) in 2011 which 
covered his debt with B, and a number of other creditors.
In 2015 Link took over this debt from B, along with another debt, and Mr M continued making 
his payments until November 2018 when he says a job loss meant he could no longer keep 
up with the DMP. Because of this, he contacted all of his creditors, including Link, to ask if 
theyd accept a reduced figure to settle the outstanding debt they held for him.
Mr M says the offer made was rejected by Link even though it was accepted by most of his 
other creditors  and says if theyd have accepted his proposal then hed have paid back 
69% of the total balance which he said was a substantial amount. When putting this to Link 
though they didnt accept this, and he says came back with unrealistic counter offers.
Hes also unhappy Link didnt provide a copy of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) agreement 
within the time limit allowed. He said theyre allowed 12 days for this but provided it 130 
working days later. This is known as a section 78 (s78) request  usually, this requires the 
creditor to provide a copy of the original lending agreement (or a reconstituted one if the 
original isnt available) and some evidence to show the account spending was made by the 
individual.
And Mr M says Link have reported a default for the account opened with B by mistake. He 
said it should have been reported by B in 2011 but was then reported again by Link in 2015. 
Mr M says this has led to him experiencing three years of additional financial hardship 
because he couldnt get a cheaper mortgage. He says he asked them to remove it, but they 
refused  so he had to speak to B. They then did tell Link to remove the default.
Link replied to Mr Ms complaints. They said theyre not required to accept any proposals 
people make but had considered them. They werent accepted, but said theyd made 
reasonable counter proposals. They also said what other creditors do wont alter their own 
stance.
In respect of the CCA, Link said when these requests are made, they dont immediately have 
the documents to hand, so have to ask lenders for them. But, if the CCA cant be provided 
within 12 days although that makes the account unenforceable, Mr Ms liability for the debt 
itself isnt removed. Link said the relevant documents had since been provided, and said 
they considered Mr Ms account was enforceable.
Regarding the default, Link said they were reporting the default as previously advised to 
them by B. They said after B had carried out an investigation, they confirmed Link should 
remove the default  as the account should have been defaulted sooner by B. Link said 
theyd removed any detrimental records from his credit file, and asked Mr M to refer this 
issue to B directly as they couldnt consider it any further.
One of our investigators considered things. He said:
Repayment proposal  Link didnt have to accept this, so he didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong.
Delay in providing the CCA  he thought there was a delay here and Mr M had to 
keep chasing up whatd happened which had caused him inconvenience.
Default  he said Link should have done due diligence when taking over the account 
from B, and had they done so then theyd have realised when the default should 
have been removed. And he thought Link should have done more to investigate the 
issue when Mr M raised it, rather than directing him to B. 
For the delay in providing the CCA and the default issues our investigator felt £150 was a 
reasonable figure to award.
Link accepted this outcome, but Mr M didnt. In summary, he said:
Repayment proposal he understands theyre under no obligation to settle but says 
as a responsible lender he expected them to help him through the hardship hes 
experiencing. He said the settlement offered would have seen 69% of the total 
balance repaid which most of his creditors accepted. And he felt their counter offers 
were unrealistic.
Delay in providing the CCA  Mr M said he was happy to see our investigator agreed 
there was a delay. He said during this period the debt was unenforceable, but that 
didnt stop Link chasing the debt. He said he found them chasing, and their view that 
it didnt make any difference, unprofessional. 
Default  Mr M was also pleased to see our investigator agreed Link should have 
done more about the default. But he explained the £150 compensation our 
investigator recommended wouldnt even cover one months of increased charges he 
otherwise could have avoided. He said the reason he couldnt get a new mortgage 
was directly linked to the incorrect defaults applied. He said the defaults were 
wrongly applied on his account for years which impacted his ability to get support or 
lower existing payments. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the outcome, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
Before progressing to a final decision, I arranged to ask Mr M, and Link, further information.
From Mr M, I wanted to know if he had any evidence from the lender where hed applied for 
his mortgage to explicitly say this default was the only reason his application wasnt 
accepted. Or if he had any evidence to support his comments about him not being able to 
support or lower existing payments. Mr M did reply to this email but didnt address these 
points. Our investigator reminded Mr M to reply if he had anything he wanted me to take into 
account  but no further information was received.
From Link, I wanted to know what theyd received from B to say they were responsible. Link 
said this was where B had said Mr M had been on repayment arrangements for more than 
six years. I also asked why they didnt do their due diligence checks when applying the 
default  and they said its because B had provided them the information to register the 
default which they thought was correct. In addition, I wanted to understand why Link didnt 
speak to B on Mr Ms behalf, as wed usually expect  and why there was a delay in sending 
the s78 paperwork. Link accepted they should have spoken to B on Mr Ms behalf, and just 
said there was an administrative error.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repayment proposal
I can understand Mr Ms frustration, particularly given the majority of his other creditors 
accepted his proposal. And I know he understands theyre not obliged to accept the offers he 
makes  but had concerns over whether they were treating him fairly in saying no to his 
proposals, and then making counter offers.
A decision on whether to accept a partial settlement on an account such as Mr Ms is a 
matter of Links own commercial judgement, and not something Id interfere with.
With that in mind, I also dont think I can reasonably say theyve treated him unfairly in 
saying no and making a counter offer  as, again, thatd be a matter of their own commercial 
judgement on whether to do so or not. Ive not seen anything to suggest they did so in an 
effort to upset Mr M.
So, although I realise Mr M might be disappointed, I dont uphold this element of his 
complaint.
Delay in providing the CCA
Mr M made a s78 request for evidence to prove the account is enforceable. 
As Mr M has said, creditors are allowed 12 days under the rules to provide this information. 
But, as Link has said, whether the debt is or isnt enforceable doesnt mean liability for the 
debt is removed  if the debt is unenforceable it simply means Link couldnt take the matter 
to court to force Mr M to repay it.
The timeline of this issue is that on 26 March 2019 Mr M made his s78 request  and seems 
to have enclosed the £1 fee. Link have said they had to contact B to get these documents as 
theyre not routinely provided them when taking over the account. And then there was a 
further delay because Mr M had paid the £1 fee in cash, but Link said they needed a cheque 
or postal order. 
Mr M replied to this contact promptly from what I can see  but then the documents werent 
sent until several months later. Its unclear why there was a delay, but I can see Mr M 
chased up this information on multiple occasions. So, I do think hes been caused some 
distress by this. Ill consider the fair way to put this right in my summary section below.
I realise Mr M isnt asking us to decide this, but for completeness Id add that our service 
cant decide if an account is enforceable, thats a judgement for the courts to make.
Default
When taking over an account Link should have checked to see whether the default was 
being correctly applied. This is a responsibility they had, so I do think theyve treated Mr M 
unfairly by not doing so. That led to a default being applied to his account that shouldnt have 
been.
Mr M has said this error by Link has had a direct impact on his financial situation  by not 
being able to get a mortgage, accessing support, or being able to lower payments on 
existing credit.I think itll help to explain at this point that Id have to see evidence to be satisfied this is the 
case. The reason for that is because lending decisions, including mortgage lending 
decisions are based on a lot of factors  many of which wont always be known to the 
relevant parties. Im aware Mr M provided information from his mortgage broker that 
mentions the default being a factor. But what Id need in this situation is something from the 
prospective lender to be satisfied the sole reason for Mr Ms mortgage being turned down 
was due to this default.
Similarly, I need evidence to support Mr Ms concerns about being denied access to support 
or being able to lower his payments.
We asked Mr M if he had any evidence he wanted to provide regarding these two points, but 
he didnt reply with anything. So, in the absence of any evidence to show what Mr M has 
said as being true, I cant reasonably say the default was the cause of these issues. 
But I do still think this has caused Mr M some distress. Hes contacted Link about it, and 
rather than speaking to B directly theyve told Mr M to do so. Id have expected them to 
speak to B, to understand if the position was correct  as by sending Mr M off he could 
easily have ended up having to repeatedly relay what B was saying to Link, and vice versa. 
So, again, I think this is worthy of some compensation. 
Summary
In summary then, I think Link have acted fairly regarding the repayment proposal but have 
caused some distress to Mr M around the s78 request, and about the registering of the 
default.
Our investigator recommended £150 and having reviewed everything I think thats a fair 
figure that reflects the distress Mr M has been caused. I can see he was frustrated by not 
getting the CCA when it should have been sent, but I dont think thats had any material 
impact on his debt. As for the default, as Ive mentioned above, Ive not been given anything 
to show hes been negatively affected by it being applied, but it shouldnt have been applied 
in the first place which Link could have prevented.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Link Financial Outsourcing Limited to pay Mr M 
£150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman