DRN-2189308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain on behalf of their business, H about what Aviva Insurance Limited 
did after they made a claim on the money in transit section of their commercial insurance 
policy. 
 What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs M took around £7,500 in cash relating to their business to their 
bank. Unfortunately, before they reached the bank the bag containing the money was stolen 
from them by a thief. They made a claim on Hs commercial insurance for the money that 
had been lost. 
Aviva turned down the claim. It said where money of between £5,000 and £8,000 was in 
transit it was a requirement of the policy that it should be accompanied by at least three 
people. In this case there had only been two. Mr and Mrs M accepted that but said for sums 
under £5,000 only two people were required. So they thought Aviva should pay that amount. 
Our investigator thought increasing the amount of money in transit meant the risk to the 
insurer was higher. It was reasonable Aviva wanted to mitigate that risk by putting in place 
additional requirements where that was the case. And if there had been three people 
transporting the money its possible the theft might not have occurred at all. She thought 
Aviva had acted reasonably in turning down the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said hed only had more than £5,000 in transit that day 
because the price of goods he was selling had increased. He said he hadnt read the policy 
terms so wasnt aware of the requirement for three people to accompany that amount of 
money. So I need to reach a final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Hs policy. In relation to money in transit these 
say:
If in relation to any claim in respect of loss of Money in transit (other than Money described 
in The Schedule) You have failed to fulfil any of the following conditions, You will lose Your 
right to indemnity or payment for that claim.
You must ensure that
(1) such Money in transit is accompanied by the following number of persons, who 
must either be You and/or any director, partner or Employee of Yours
(a) over £2,500 up to £5,000 by at least 2 persons
(b) over £5,000 up to £8,000 by at least 3 persons
(c) over £8,000 up to £15,000 by at least 4 persons
(2) private transport is used for amounts of Money in transit greater than £2,500 
where the distance exceeds half a mile.
I appreciate Mr M may not have read the terms of the policy but I think those terms are clear 
and its reasonable for Aviva to rely on them. And its not in dispute Mr M was taking more 
than £5,000 to the bank and so there should have been at least three people transporting 
that amount. But there were only two. So the policy terms havent been met. Under the terms 
of the policy that means Aviva was entitled to turn down the claim H made. 
Ive gone on to think about whether its fair for Aviva to rely on that term in this case. The law 
says non-compliance with these sort of policy terms cant be used by an insurer to decline a 
claim if the non-compliance couldnt have increased the risk of loss in the circumstances that 
occurred.
But in this case I think that where a higher amount is being transported the risk to an insurer 
from a potential claim is greater and so its reasonable that it wants to protect itself against 
that risk. I also think that risk would likely have been reduced if there had been three people 
transporting the money  I think its reasonable to say that would have provided a greater 
deterrent against the theft. So I think non-compliance with this policy term has increased the 
risk of loss to Aviva. 
I appreciate the money Mr and Mrs M were taking to the bank may have been higher on this 
particular day than normal. And clearly its very unfortunate the theft took place at that point. 
But the amount they were taking to the bank was significantly over (by around £2,500) the 
policy limit for transport by two people. In addition the deterrent value of having three people 
involved would have been to the total amount being transported rather than simply the 
amount over £5,000. So, while I understand why Mr and Mrs M think that the claim should 
be paid up to that limit, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in turning down the claim in its 
entirety. 
Mr and Mrs M also raised concerns with Aviva about how their claim was handled. It appears 
to have considered these matters separately and agreed to pay £1,000 for those customer 
service issues. Our investigator asked Mr M if he wanted us to look into those matters and 
he hasnt asked us to do so. So I havent considered them in this decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman