DRN-3147814
The complaint
Miss P complains about the decision by AIG Life Limited to turn down her income protection 
claim and apply an exclusion to her policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss P applied for the policy through a broker. The aim of the policy was to 
provide an income in the event she couldnt work due to illness or injury. Her application was 
accepted by AIG and it went into force the following month.
In June 2020, Miss P stopped work after suffering a slipped disc in her back. She made a 
claim under the policy.
AIG thought Miss P had failed to provide material information about her health when taking 
out the policy. It said that if she had told it the relevant information, it wouldve applied an 
exclusion for her back. 
AIG gave Miss P the option to either continue with her policy with the exclusion in place (this 
would also reduce her monthly premiums slightly), or to cancel the policy and have a refund 
of the premiums paid. Either way, Miss Ps claim wouldnt be payable. Unhappy with this, 
Miss P brought a complaint to this service. She has since returned to work. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Miss P had failed 
to take reasonable care when completing the application form, and that AIG was therefore 
entitled to apply the exclusion retrospectively and turn down Miss Ps claim. 
Miss P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the matter in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
Ive first of all considered the questions Miss P was asked. I see that AIG sent Miss P a copy 
of the questions and her answers and asked her to check these were correct before the 
cover started.
The application asked the following:
Have you had any conditions affecting your spine, neck, joints, muscles or ligaments in the 
last 5 years? Please include slipped disc, back pain, knee pain, shoulder pain, sciatica, 
arthritis and repetitive strain injury.
(Examples can include but are not limited to slipped disc, back pain, knee pain, shoulder 
pain, sciatica, arthritis and repetitive strain injury.)
I think this was a clear question. Miss P answered no to this question.
The application also asked:
Have you been referred to, or been to see, any medical practitioner other than your GP in 
the last 5 years?
(Examples can include but are not limited to all visits to a hospital doctor, consultant, 
psychiatrist, therapist or other visit to a clinic or Accident and Emergency)
I think this was a clear question. Miss P answered yes and provided details of conditions 
not related to her back.
Miss Ps chiropractor (Mr Y) said he initially saw her in February 2016 when she was 
complaining of upper thoracic pain brought on from lifting a horses leg, as well as some 
neck pain on extension. Mr Y explained that, since then, Miss P had had episodes of 
thoracic pain and some lower back pain which had always responded very well and quickly 
to treatment. He confirmed that he saw Miss P on four occasions throughout 2016 and on 
five occasions in October 2018.
Mr Y provided further clarification in November 2020. He said Miss Ps initial complaint in 
2016 was noted as upper thoracic tightness, and her neck movement was restricted. Mr Y 
pointed out that it was easier to say pain. He also said that on Miss Ps next visit she had 
complained of some mild non-specific and diffuse lower abdominal/back pain which she 
hadnt had before. Mr Y said that on that occasion it was put down to menstrual pain, but 
that for speed and ease he used the acronym LBP (lower back pain) as the area of interest.
Mr Y also commented on Miss Ps visits in 2018. He explained that he saw her for 
generalised body tension throughout and he recommended a course of treatment to help 
ease the tension. Mr Y said that because Miss P felt better each time she agreed to return 
for several treatments as part of a fitness drive. Mr Y said he was an advocate of 
preventative treatment rather than cure and many of his patients attend for regular 
preventative treatment without ever having issues with their back. In Miss Ps case, given 
her (manual) job, he said he would support this approach and that the low-grade tensions in 
the past werent related to her slipped disc.
Although Miss P says she didnt have a back condition, according to the initial information 
from Mr Y, she did have back pain. This was an example given in the first question, so Im 
satisfied Miss P wouldve known that shed need to disclose this. Even if I were persuaded 
by Mr Ys later explanation that Miss P didnt have pain and instead had tightness in her 
upper back - given that she needed to visit a chiropractor for this, I think it would still be 
reasonable to expect her to have disclosed this in response to the question. Also, Mr Y says 
that Miss P was complaining of lower abdominal/ back pain when she next visited him. 
Although this was put down to menstrual pain, again, the fact remains that she had visited a 
chiropractor complaining of back pain.Miss P says her interpretation of medical practitioner was those who have qualified as 
doctors. She also said she took therapist to mean qualified occupational therapist or speech 
therapist working in a clinic/surgery/hospital environment. 
Im not persuaded by this argument. I think the use of the term medical practitioner would 
generally be accepted to encompass all practitioners that provide healthcare, rather than 
only qualified doctors. Also, as Miss P points out, therapists were given in the list of 
examples in the second question, and I think most people would understand that the majority 
of therapists arent also qualified doctors. Its not clear why Miss P thought a therapist should 
work out of a clinic/surgery/hospital environment when the question doesnt mention this.
Miss P also says she saw the chiropractor for maintenance of her physical wellbeing, and 
that this was for preventative reasons. However, according to Mr Y, it seems Miss P saw him 
when she was experiencing pain/tightness/tension. She didnt visit him regularly for 
preventative reasons.
On balance, I think it was reasonable for AIG to have expected Miss P to have disclosed her 
back and neck problems and visits to the chiropractor in response to the questions asked. It 
therefore follows that I agree with AIG that Miss P failed to take reasonable care when 
completing the application, and so there was misrepresentation. 
AIG has provided underwriting evidence to show that if it had known the relevant 
information, it wouldve applied the following exclusion:
No claim will be paid in respect of any disease, disorder, injury, operation, or treatment of 
the spinal column and its associated ligaments, intervertebral discs, cartilage, nerves and 
supporting musculature.
Im therefore satisfied that AIG has shown the misrepresentation was qualifying.
AIG thinks Miss Ps misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless, and I 
would agree with this.
AIG has shown that it wouldve still entered into the contract with Miss P (but on different 
terms) had she taken reasonable care when completing the application. Under CIDRA, this 
means the contract should be treated as though it had been entered into on those different 
terms (excluding terms relating to the premium). 
I therefore agree with our investigator that it was reasonable for AIG to apply the exclusion 
retrospectively. As Miss Ps claim falls under the exclusion, I think it was appropriate for AIG 
to also turn down the claim.
As an alternative to the policy continuing with the exclusion, AIG gave Miss P the option of a 
refund of her premiums. It wasnt required to offer this under CIDRA, but its up to Miss P if 
she wishes to take up this offer. If she does want to do so, I would suggest she contact AIG 
to find out if this offer remains open to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman