DRN-2875581
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the service they received from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited when they surrendered their investment. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R surrendered their investment in April 2020. The value of it had dropped in 
March, due to Prudential lowering the unit price of its Prufund Cautious Fund. Prudential say 
that adjustment was to reflect falls in the funds value, caused by the coronavirus pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy to see Prudential later increased the unit price of the fund. They 
complained that if Prudential had made it clearer that was possible, they wouldnt have 
surrendered all of their investment. They noted theyd tried to call Prudential about the unit 
price adjustment (UPA) before surrendering their policy, but had struggled to speak to 
someone about it. 
In response to the complaint, Prudential explained how the UPA worked and why it had been 
applied. It said information about this was available at the time on its website, and through 
the MyPru online service. Prudential felt this had been enough to inform Mr and Mrs R about 
it before they surrendered their investment. 
But Prudential did find thered been unreasonable delays on its phone lines. It said this was 
because it was receiving a higher number of calls than expected. It also said itd taken 
longer than it should have to process Mr and Mrs Rs request to surrender the investment. 
And it felt the first response to the complaint hadnt done enough to deal with the UPA point. 
Prudential apologised for these issues, and offered Mr and Mrs R a total of £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. And it paid them £11.77 to compensate for 
any interest lost due to the delay giving Mr and Mrs R their money. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt feel this reflected what theyd lost from their investment, so they brought 
the complaint to us. Our investigator looked at it, but reached a similar conclusion to 
Prudential. Thered been unreasonable difficulties contacting Prudential by phone, and 
thered been some delay when giving Mr and Mrs R their money. But she found Prudential 
didnt need to do any more about the UPA complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R asked for the complaint to be looked at again by an ombudsman, so its come 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided theres nothing further Prudential need to do to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Rs decision to surrender their investment seems driven by a concern that its 
value could have dropped again, after the UPA in March. I can accept Prudential told them 
that was possible, even though the value was actually adjusted upwards later. Prudential 
cant be expected to predict what would happen in the future, particularly given the 
exceptional circumstances 2020 brought to investment funds. 
For a reasonable service level, Prudential should have given Mr and Mrs R enough 
information for them to make an informed choice, when deciding whether to surrender their 
investment. 
Ive looked at the information Prudential have on their website about UPAs. While I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs R say they couldnt find this information, it is fairly easily found in the 
section dealing with PruFund investments. The information  particularly a leaflet called A 
step-by-step guide to the PruFund smoothing process - explains the process in a clear and 
reasonable way. Given Prudential had this information available publicly, I find its taken 
reasonable steps to make information about the UPA available to Mr and Mrs R. 
I dont have any recording of Mr and Mrs Rs conversation with Prudential or their advisor 
about UPAs. Mr and Mrs R say they werent told UPAs could be made upward, as well as 
down. It appears the fact further falls were possible was enough of a risk for them to decide 
not to keep their money invested. 
I cant see the perception of that risk would have been changed greatly by knowing the value 
might not fall, or might increase. Prudential couldnt have offered any certainty about what 
would happen after March 2020, meaning the risk of a further fall would still have been there 
to influence Mr and Mrs Rs decision. 
The value was being driven by events on a global scale, beyond Prudentials direct control. 
With hindsight, I can see how Mr and Mrs R feel theyd have been better to leave their 
money invested. But Im not convinced that would have been their decision at the time, even 
if theyd been explicitly told there could be an upward UPA at some point. 
Im satisfied Prudential did enough to inform Mr and Mrs R about the risks affecting their 
investment. There was enough information available for them to make an informed choice 
about whether to surrender it when they did. And nothing Prudential said seems to have 
been incorrect. So I find Prudential dont need to do any more to remedy that part of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R have commented that the trouble reaching Prudential on the phone influenced 
their decision to surrender the investment. But I find the issues Prudential had maintaining a 
suitable level of telephone service were understandable, given the events of March 2020. 
Workplaces were closed at short notice. Some people saw their income reduced and had to 
turn to their savings. And share prices saw rapid changes. 
I can see how this increased demand for Prudentials services beyond what it could have 
been expecting. While I can appreciate Mr and Mrs R would have been more reassured if 
they could have picked up the phone and spoken to someone, I find its unfair to blame 
Prudential for the wider circumstances that affected its service on this point.
With that said, Prudential have offered Mr and Mrs R some compensation for the issues they 
had getting through, getting an answer to their complaint, and getting their money after the 
investment was surrendered. I feel the £250 offered acknowledges that Prudentials service 
level was less than either it or Mr and Mrs R would have liked. And it suitably stops short of trying to remedy all of Mr and Mrs Rs frustrations with the situation they were in, which in 
many ways reflected the unique events of March 2020. 
Given that balance, I find Prudentials offers  and its apologies  were suitable to reflect its 
view of the complaint, and try to resolve it. Im not going to direct them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman