DRN-2316008
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr P says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was added to Mr Ps credit card and was designed to help protect his monthly 
repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold but Mr P disagreed. The complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think Tesco made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI. And I can see from a 
copy of his signed credit card application form that he ticked a box to indicate he wanted 
PPI. So, I think he chose to take it knowing he had the option not to. Mr P says the form 
doesnt say anywhere that the PPI was optional, and I agree with him that the word optional 
wasnt used. Nevertheless, I think it was clear that he had a choice.
Tesco says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P and, in his PPI questionnaire, he also said 
no advice was given. However, more recently hes argued the way in which the application 
form was worded meant the PPI was being recommended to him. While I agree the words 
strongly recommend were included with reference to PPI, this appeared on a generic 
application form and I dont think Mr P would have taken that to mean Tesco was making a 
personal recommendation to him. Which means it didnt have to check if the PPI was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed to decide for 
himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the cover. 
Ive thought very carefully about the medical condition  type 2 diabetes  that Mr P had at 
the time and the policys exclusion clause for claims arising from pre-existing medical 
conditions. But Im not persuaded these things would have put Mr P off taking the policy. I 
say that because it seems hed been diagnosed with the condition around two years before 
the sale took place. By 2002, Mr P told us the condition had been managed through a 
combination of several factors. He confirmed he hadnt had to make any unplanned visits to 
the hospital because of the condition and that hed been able to lead a normal living lifestyle 
as a result of the actions hed taken up to that point. 
Mr P did confirm his condition had worsened over time, although I cant see that it was 
considered inevitable in 2002 that that would be the case or that the diabetes would lead to 
other health problems. 
I think Mr P still had good reason to buy the policy. He was employed in the public sector 
and says he was entitled to full pay for up to six months and half pay for up to a further six 
months if he was off work sick. He was also entitled to redundancy pay. The PPI benefits 
were considerable and would have paid out on top of his work benefits  and for up to 12 
months in the event of disability or unemployment. They could have allowed him to retain 
any savings he held or use them to help cover his other living costs should his income have 
fallen or stopped altogether if he wasnt working. 
Taking everything into account, I believe the PPI provided Mr P with useful protection in 
addition to the other means available to him. 
All of which means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But, 
separately to the mis-sale issue, Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P 
because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tescos basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in this 
case. I realise Mr P would like Tesco to pay him back for everything he paid for the PPI 
but I think hed still have found the PPI useful despite the level of commission and profit 
share payable.
What the business needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Tesco should also pay back to Mr P 
any extra interest he paid because of that. 
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr P the difference between 
what he owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mr P 8%* simple interest if 
Mr P paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman