DRN-3701544
The complaint
Ms D and Mr L have complained that esure Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) their motor insurance policy and refused to pay their claim following the theft 
of their car.
What happened
Ms D took out a motor insurance policy with esure through an online price comparison site 
and renewed it a year later. Mr L is a named driver on the policy. When their car was stolen 
from outside their home, they tried to claim on their policy. 
esure declined the claim, avoided the policy and returned the premiums theyd already paid, 
less an administration fee. When Ms D complained, esure said shed answered the question 
shed been asked about previous motoring convictions incorrectly. And that it considered this 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and refuse the claim. 
Ms D brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. She didnt think esure had 
treated this as deliberate or reckless, but as careless. She thought esure was entitled to 
avoid the policy and decline the claim. It had returned the premiums but retained an 
administration fee. The Investigator thought it wasnt entitled to do this as the policy should 
be treated as if it had never existed. And so she thought esure should reimburse this fee with 
interest.
esure doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It 
said it had cancelled the policy before deciding to avoid it and so was entitled to charge a 
cancellation fee. It said Ms D hadnt complained about this. Ms D has also said she doesnt 
agree on the basis she wasnt asked about previous convictions at renewal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms D and Mr L feel frustrated and disappointed by esures decision to 
avoid their policy and decline the claim. Theyve explained that this leaves them with a 
considerable debt as the car was on finance. I was sorry to hear about their financial 
difficulties.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). As our Investigator has explained, this requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
esure thinks Ms D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
stated in her application via a comparison site that neither she nor her partner had previous 
driving convictions within the previous five years. And Ive looked at the question she was 
asked when she completed the application and agree she failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because she was asked:
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, drivers licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have been disqualified from driving (including any 
pending prosecutions)?
Ms D was then provided with further information about motoring convictions. And I think this 
was a clear question asked by esure through the comparison site Ms D used. Ms D didnt 
disclose any convictions. At renewal, I can see that Ms D was told:
It's important that you check your documents and call us if any of the information is 
inaccurate, has changed over the past year or changes in the future. Not telling us could 
lead to you being uninsured, your policy being cancelled or voided, a claim rejected or 
reduced, or additional terms being applied to your policy
Under details of the convictions and fixed penalty offences in the last five years for all drivers 
it again states none disclosed.
But when Ms D took out the policy she and Mr L had three convictions within the previous 
five years. And when they renewed the policy, they had four motoring convictions that should 
have been disclosed. 
As the convictions were relatively recent and would have been preceded with warning 
letters, I think Ms D and Mr L should reasonably have known of them. Mr L said he disclosed 
the convictions in a phone call to esure. But I havent seen any evidence to support this. And 
I think Ms D should have reasonably checked her renewal invitation to ensure that the 
information disclosed was correct. And so I think this means Ms D failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when she said they had no previous motoring 
convictions. 
esure has provided evidence from its underwriting guidelines which shows that if Ms D had 
not made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am 
satisfied Ms Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
esure returned Ms Ds premiums, which I think shows that it regarded the misrepresentation 
as careless. And I havent seen any evidence from esure to show that the misrepresentation 
was reckless or deliberate. 
Therefore, Im satisfied esure was entitled to avoid Ms Ds policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, esure does not have to deal 
with her claim following the theft of her car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing esure to rely on it to avoid Ms Ds 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
esure retained a fee which it has said was for cancellation of the policy. But the policy was 
avoided due to careless misrepresentation and this supersedes the cancellation. Im 
satisfied that esure is required by CIDRA to refund the premiums in full and, as the policy is 
treated as if it never existed, any cancellation fees cannot be applied. And so I think esure 
should refund this fee to Ms D with interest as she has been without her money for some 
time. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to refund the cancellation fee charged to Ms D, adding 
interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the premium was 
refunded until the date of settlement. 
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give Ms D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman