DRN-2774612
The complaint
 Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMW), was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 20 July 2020, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW. He paid a deposit of £3,599 and the agreement was for £32,391 over 60 months; 
with 59 monthly repayments of £506.38 and a final optional payment of £10,135.13. At the 
time, the car was three years old and had done 32,406 miles.
In September 2020, Mr C complained to the supplying dealership that the car was spluttering 
on start up. The dealership attempted a repair, but Mr C said he experienced more problems 
with the car after it was returned.
On 2 November 2020, Mr C complained to BMW that the engine had failed while he was 
driving on the motorway. He said hed had problems with the car from supply, which included 
damaged bodywork, a missing block from the engine that was casing a loss of oil, and the 
need to have two tyres replaced. 
BMW arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. This inspection took 
place on 12 November 2020, and, in January 2021, BMW agreed to let Mr C reject the car. 
They refunded his deposit and two payments, and they removed the agreement from his 
credit file.
Mr Cs wife has a serious medical condition and he relied on the car to take her to regular 
medical appointments  a return journey of around 200 miles, up to three times a week. 
Because of this, he didnt think that BMW had done enough, and he wanted to be 
compensated for the stress and inconvenience hed been caused; and reimbursed for the 
money he had to pay out while he had the car, including the cost of two new tyres. He 
referred his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that any reasonable person wouldnt expect a cars engine to fail after 
three years and less than 40,000 miles. And, while the independent engineer said the engine 
fault was most likely as result of wear and tear, the investigator didnt think the engine was 
sufficiently durable. And this made it not of a satisfactory quality when supplied.
As BMW had allowed Mr C to reject the car, the investigator considered what else they 
shouldve reasonably done. Because the car passed an MOT just before it was supplied to 
Mr C, and there were no failures or advisories relating to the tyres, the investigator thought 
there were no issues with the tyres at the point of supply. So she didnt think BMW needed 
to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the two tyres he put on the car.
But, because the car hadnt been driven since 31 October 2020 due to the engine issues, 
the investigator thought that BMW should refund him all of the payments he made after this 
date, plus interest. She also said that, because of the inconvenience and additional stress 
caused by the car breaking down, BMW should also pay Mr C an additional £200. And she 
said that BMW should remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file.
BMW didnt agree with the investigator. They said that, while they agreed to pay Mr C the 
£200, and remove the agreement from his credit file; they didnt agree to refund the 
payments plus interest  Mr C had already accepted their offer to refund the deposit and two 
monthly payments. And they asked for the matter has been passed to an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In 
a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and 
the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must 
last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Mr C to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, if 
I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
It's clear from the evidence that Mr C was complaining about having problems with the car 
since it was provided to him. And, In October 2020, the engine failed. Ive seen a copy of the 
independent engineers report, dated 12 November 2020. At the time of inspection, the car 
had travelled 36,980 miles  4,574 since supply. The report confirms that the car broke down 
on 31 October 2020, due to an engine failure. 
The engineer said there was swarf contamination in the oil filter bowl (the oil filter had been 
removed before inspection) and this would require further investigation to determine the 
cause. But the engineer said they do not consider this would have been present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr C  the conditions are possibly wear and tear 
since purchase.When Mr C took possession of the car it was just three years old and had done 32,406 
miles. While Id expect some wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage, I would 
expect it to be free from major defects and for it to be safe and durable. And I think any 
reasonable person would expect the car to be safe, driveable and without any undisclosed 
mechanical issues. And I have to consider the price Mr C paid for the car  almost £36,000. 
The more expensive the car, the fewer minor issues Id expect to be present.
Given the independent engineers report, Im satisfied there was a problem with the engine. 
Engine components are a wear and tear issue, and they arent expected to last the lifetime 
of the car. But I dont think any reasonable person would expect the engine to fail after 
37,000 miles. So, while the independent engineer said this wasnt present or developing at 
the point of supply, I actually think this is a durability issue  the engine didnt last as long as 
it would reasonably be expected to. And this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Where the goods are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows consumers the short-term 
right to reject. And Im glad to see that BMW have allowed Mr C to reject the car. But, in 
doing so, they shouldve also fairly compensated Mr C for what happened.
Putting things right
 Mr C was supplied with the car on 20 July 2020. The engine failed on 30 October 2020, at 
which point Mr C had had use of the car for just over three months and had travelled just 
over 4,500 miles. So I think its fair that Mr C should pay for this usage.
Ive seen Mr C made payments to BMW on 1 September 2020 and 1 October 2020. While 
Mr C didnt have trouble free motoring for the time he was using the car, I think making two 
payments to cover the three months usage fairly compensates for this. So I dont think that 
these payments should be refunded.
But Mr C also made payments on 1 November 2020, 1 December 2020 and 1 January 2020. 
All of these payments were made after the engine had failed, and when Mr C wasnt able to 
use the car. So I agree with the investigator that BMW should refund these payments, plus 
interest. BMW refunded two payments (without interest) in January 2021, So Im satisfied 
that Mr C is still due a refund of one payment, plus interest on all three payments.
Mr C was unable to get another car while he was still tied to this agreement  he wasnt able 
to afford to pay for two cars. But, if he had been allowed to reject the car in November 2020, 
and obtained a replacement car at that point, he would still have needed to tax and insure 
this car. So I dont think he should be refunded any other costs associated with the car for 
the time it was off the road.
But Mr C suffered inconvenience as a result of not having a working car  he wasnt able to 
drive his wife to her regular medical appointments, and they needed to travel on public 
transport. Which would only have added to the stress he was under. Given this, I agree that 
BMW should pay him £200 for the stress and inconvenience he was caused.
So, BMW should now arrange to do the following:
remove the agreement from Mr Cs credit file (if not already done);
refund the payments Mr C paid between November 2020 and January 2021, to 
reflect that he wasnt using the car at that time*;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the payment refund, calculated from the date Mr C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr C an additional £200 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.*BMW have already refunded two of these payments, so only the interest on these two 
payment refunds needs to be paid
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to take off tax from this interest. BMW must give  
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman