DRN-3039133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Birmingham Midshires) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. The policy covered Mr S, in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs S and Bank of Scotland a provisional decision on 10 August 2021, to 
explain why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its unsurprising that neither side still have the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules Bank of Scotland was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ss data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Bank of Scotland to have misled Mr and Mrs S 
into having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Bank of Scotland did here. 
Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular 
sale was too long ago for me to reasonably require Bank of Scotland to be able to produce 
evidence from the time to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude 
that Bank of Scotland misled Mr and Mrs S. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively 
normal sales process, where it offered them a choice and they chose PPI  though I can 
understand if they no longer recall choosing PPI after so many years.
Its not clear whether Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI for Mr S, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Bank of Scotland if it did recommend the policy  so to be as 
fair to Mr and Mrs S as possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That means Bank of Scotland 
had to check the PPI was right for Mr S  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr S was eligible for the cover. And as far as weve been told, he 
doesnt appear to have had any other significant protection in place. Its worth bearing in 
mind that if Mr and Mrs S had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. 
So the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace 
of mind.
Mr S did have a medical condition which might not have been covered. But from what his 
representatives have told us, his condition was controlled by regular medication and it hadnt 
caused him to need any time off work or stopped him from doing his job. And by the time of 
this sale, Mr S had already been living with his condition for a number of years  so he 
wouldve had a good idea about how it affected him and wouldve seen it hadnt caused him 
to take any time off work despite having had it for a significant time. Its worth bearing in 
mind that this policy was there to cover extended time off sick. And from what weve been 
told, it doesnt sound like Mr Ss condition was likely to ever cause that, nor that it was likely 
to have been a key concern for him in choosing whether to protect his mortgage with PPI. 
Indeed, when Mr S first complained he said he didnt have any health problems at the time of 
the sale. Further, Mr S couldve still claimed for time off due to other conditions, or if he lost 
his job. And it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys other main exclusions. 
So I still think the PPI couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs S in case Mr S was off work 
sick or lost his job.
Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr S wasnt significantly affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and 
Mrs S in case something went wrong for him. The policy was competitively priced given how 
much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and 
Mrs S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
7 September 2021. Bank of Scotland didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs S made 
some further comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S reiterated that they were told they had to have the PPI in order to obtain the 
mortgage. I do understand their argument. But as I explained before, I dont have any 
evidence to substantiate that Bank of Scotland did anything wrong like that, and this sale 
was much too long ago for me to reasonably require Bank of Scotland to be able to produce 
the original records to defend itself now. And Ive not seen any wider problems with its sales 
process from the time. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Bank of 
Scotland did something wrong there.
Mr and Mrs S also reiterated that they werent asked about Mr Ss health. But as I explained 
before, it doesnt look like this would have been relevant, as Mr Ss pre-existing condition 
was not likely to have been a key concern or to have ever caused him to claim, and he 
wasnt affected by any of the policys other key exclusions.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs S pointed out that Id said its possible Lloyds couldve given them clearer 
information, and again I understand where theyre coming from. But per the provisional 
decision, that  on its own  does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. Instead, the 
question is whether I think better information was likely to have put them off the PPI. And 
given the policys usefulness in their circumstances, its competitive pricing, and its flexibility, 
I dont think better information was likely to have put them off buying it.So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have 
not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case. We are no 
longer able to consider the complaint any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman