DRN-3817885
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that TSB Bank plc blocked its transactions and 
referred its debit card for additional checks, and did not assist it effectively to resolve 
matters.
Mr M, a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
The circumstances giving rise to this complaint are familiar to both parties. In summary:
In October 2021, B opened a business bank account with TSB.
In November, B sought to access its account through its debit card to make a 
deposit, but the card was blocked. Mr M complained. TSB responded to explain why 
the block had happened, saying that its measures existed to protect customers 
accounts and, although inconvenient, those measures had worked as intended in this 
case. However, TSB acknowledged that, when phoning to resolve matters, Mr M had 
waited a long time, for which it apologised and paid B £40. TSB later added a further 
£35 to compensate B for expenses.
In mid-December, B again sought to access its account through its debit card to 
make a deposit, but again the card was blocked. Mr M accessed Bs account through 
alternative means and the payment was credited to Bs account the following day, but 
Mr M again complained to TSB for the inconvenience caused.
A few days later, Bs principal supplier contacted B to say that its payment had been 
rejected. The supplier said that it would delay making supplies to B until the issue 
was resolved. B then had to find alternative means to pay its supplier, but supplies 
were delayed, affecting Bs business. For the next few weeks, Mr M relied on an 
employees debit card to pay its supplier, causing Mr M some embarrassment. Mr M 
contacted TSB but had to wait over an hour to get through. When he did get through, 
Mr M was told that the person he was speaking to didnt deal with business bank 
accounts. Mr M followed this up with TSB on the same day with two emails.
TSB responded to Bs complaint at the end of December. It said that, when Mr M had 
tried to pay cash into Bs account in mid-December, Bs debit card had again been 
flagged for additional security checks. TSB explained that these flags can be 
triggered if a payment is out of character or can be random. TSB said that, in these 
circumstances, it is necessary for the customer to liaise with its debit card fraud 
team, who will seek to validate the transaction. TSB said that, unfortunately, when 
Mr M had called, hed been told that the team hed been put through to couldnt help 
 but this was wrong. Hed also spent a long time waiting to speak to someone. For 
this poor service, TSB apologised and paid B £150. TSB explained that, because the 
card was still blocked, it remained necessary for Mr M to liaise with TSBs debit card 
fraud team to resolve matters.
Mr M says that B continued to be unable to make payments to its supplier using its 
TSB account for four weeks. He says that, on 10 January, he phoned TSB again, but 
the call was cut off. He then tried again but TSBs agent couldnt explain why the 
blocks were happening. Mr M says these calls took over an hour. TSBs agent 
advised Mr M to attend a TSB branch, which Mr M says caused a huge amount of 
stress and inconvenience, especially as Covid rates were high. On 11 January, Mr M 
went to a TSB branch to resolve matters, which took over an hour. 
Mr M has reported that, in mid-January 2022, Bs payment to its supplier finally went 
through, suggesting the problem was resolved; but, a week later, its payment to the 
same supplier was blocked again. Mr M says he felt exasperated, not understanding 
why this kept happening.
Mr M emailed TSB several times between January and March 2022 to try to get 
answers, seeking increasing levels of compensation. Mr M said there was no 
irregular activity on Bs account - just cash deposits, card payments to its supplier 
and regular direct debits. He was also disappointed with the service hed received to 
resolve matters. Mr M said that:
othe requirement to attend a branch seemed unnecessary, and created undue 
risk in the context of the Covid pandemic
oTSB had not compensated him for the direct costs (petrol, parking, etc) 
arising from his branch visit
oTSBs response at the end of December to his complaint had been sent by 
letter when he had communicated by email
oTSBs response to his email in mid-January had said that someone would 
contact him, but this hadnt happened
ovarious calls had disconnected, and those which had gone through had 
required long wait times 
At the start of March, TSB issued a further response to Bs complaint saying that, 
having looked again at the service it had provided, it had nothing further to add to its 
previous response. It believed the compensation it had already paid remained fair in 
the circumstances.
Not content with TSBs responses, Mr M brought Bs complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things. He said that TSB hadnt done anything wrong in blocking 
Bs transactions or referring its debit card for additional checks, but the level of service TSB 
had provided after applying the blocks was below what hed expect. However, he thought 
that the compensation already paid by TSB to B for these mistakes was fair in the 
circumstances. He initially stated this total compensation to have been £265 but later 
clarified that it was £225. He confirmed he still believed this amount to have been fair.
Mr M didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between B and TSB and considered all 
the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider central 
to this complaint. There are three key questions:Did TSB act reasonably in blocking certain transactions and referring Bs debit card 
for additional checks?
Did TSB do anything wrong in how it assisted B to resolve matters?
If TSB has made mistakes, has it done enough to put things right?
I consider each in turn.
Blocking transactions and requiring additional checks
TSB has said that it appreciates security checks are not always convenient, but they are 
important to ensure that accounts remain protected. Having reviewed what happened to Bs 
account between November 2021 and March 2022, it believes its systems worked as 
intended.
I have sympathy with Mr M that, on two occasions, he was unable to access Bs account 
using its debit card to deposit cash, and that he was unable for a few weeks to make 
payments to Bs principal supplier. However, having looked carefully at the action taken by 
TSB, I dont believe it was wrong to act as it did. TSB is under certain regulatory obligations 
to protect its customers accounts, which it achieves in part by having various automated 
triggers to flag certain activity, or randomly to question activity. This activity is then blocked 
until verified. While I acknowledge that this can be frustrating for customers, as it has been 
here for Mr M, I do not believe it is unreasonable. It is unfortunate that B was subject to 
these checks in quick succession, but I dont believe this means that TSBs triggers are 
unfair or that it was acting in any way unreasonably towards B.
Mr M has asked TSB to explain why the checks kept happening, but I wouldnt expect TSB 
to describe its flags in detail, so I believe the level of explanation provided to Mr M in the 
circumstances is reasonable.
Assisting B to resolve matters
TSB has admitted various mistakes in how it sought to assist B to resolve matters. In 
November, Mr M had to wait a long time on the phone. This happened again in December 
before he was then told incorrectly that the team hed come through to couldnt help. I agree 
that, in these ways, TSB failed to provide B with a reasonable level of service. 
With regard to the other matters Mr M has raised, relating to the service hes received from 
TSB:
It is not clear to me that the requirement for Mr M to attend a branch in January 2022 
to resolve matters was unnecessary. I have seen nothing to indicate that the checks 
conducted in branch could have been conducted remotely. While I appreciate that, in 
the context of the Covid 19 pandemic, this required Mr M to be willing to incur some 
risk, it does not appear to me that TSB acted unreasonably in proposing it as a way 
forward to resolve matters. 
I also acknowledge that Mr M incurred some inconvenience in attending the branch 
but, given that I dont think TSB was wrong to conduct the checks it did on Bs 
account, I think it is reasonable to expect the process of providing the required 
verification to involve some time. Similarly, given the visit to the branch wasnt the 
result of any mistake by TSB, I dont think TSB is liable for the costs to Mr M of it.Although Mr M complained by email in December 2021, I dont think TSB was wrong 
to explain its actions in a letter. The important thing is that it set out clearly to Mr M 
how it had considered his complaint and what action it was taking, which I think it did.
Similarly, when Mr M received a response from TSB to his email in January 2022 
saying that someone would be in touch, he expected that this would happen quickly. 
However, TSB did respond, albeit later in early March, when it set out its further 
considerations having reviewed all that had happened, which I think is reasonable.
Mr M clearly spent considerable time on the phone between November 2021 and 
March 2022 trying to resolve matters. I can see that, in TSBs correspondence, it 
apologised for the long wait times to its debit card fraud team and advised Mr M to 
call in the morning when queues are shortest. Some calls to TSB disconnected but, 
as I am unable to ascertain why that happened, I cannot say that TSB was at fault.
Putting things right
As set out above, Mr M has invested considerable time and effort to resolve the blocks 
occurring on Bs TSB account. I acknowledge this has been deeply frustrating. However, 
given I have found that TSB acted reasonably in blocking certain of Bs transactions and 
requiring additional checks, I believe some degree of inconvenience to Mr M is to be 
expected in the circumstances. I would not expect TSB to compensate B for this.
However, also as set out above, B has suffered inconvenience as a result of TSBs 
mistakes. I have considered what compensation is due to B for this and I believe the amount 
already paid by TSB to B is in line with the amount I would award in the circumstances. I am 
aware that Mr M believes TSB should pay much more but I dont believe this would be fair. 
I can also appreciate that the circumstances giving rise to this complaint will have caused 
Mr M considerable stress. However, the complainant in this case is B and, as a company, B 
is unable to feel distress. Therefore, I am unable to award anything to B for this. 
Overall, I am aware that Mr M will be disappointed with this decision, but I think TSB has 
taken reasonable steps to put right its mistakes and I think the £225 it has already paid B is 
fair. Therefore, I do not require it to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman