DRN-3734512
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt correctly administer his 
five whole of life policies it held as security. Because of this he missed the opportunity of 
participating in options offered on the policies. He says he has lost out financially.
What happened
Since August 1971 the five life assurance policies  with Mr F being the life assured  have 
been assigned to Barclays as security in respect of lending facilities Barclays made available 
to him.
Upon Mr Fs request in August 2021 Barclays released the policies to Mr F as it had no 
further reliance on them. One of the five policies was missing. Mr F raised this with Barclays 
in September, and it was released in November. 
Mr F made contact with the underlying insurance company  who I shall refer to as 
Company A in my decision  about the options that were available to convert the policies to 
endowment policies and maturity dates. He was informed that the option clause dates had 
passed and that it would have been for Barclays to have made any decisions in its role as 
policy holder. He couldnt take any further action about those options. 
Mr F was concerned that he had lost out financially because of this missed the opportunity to 
be able to convert. He said he couldnt do this because Barclays were holding the policies 
and he didnt know this option was available to him. 
Mr F raised a complaint with Barclays who responded on 8 December 2021. It said;
It recognised there had been a delay in the life policies being released to him. It 
apologised for the poor service and paid him £200. 
Because of the length of time that had passed it was unable to find any evidence that 
it had been contacted by Company A in respect of the anniversary options. 
While Barclays may have held the policies, Mr F was ultimately the policy holder and 
should have been contacted direct by Company A.
Mr F wasnt happy with this. He felt that Barclays didnt have the ability to administer the 
policies and didnt notify him of his rights and duties at the appropriate times as it should 
have done. He wanted compensation for this. 
Barclays said that Company A had confirmed that although Barclays could have requested 
the options Mr F referred to, it wouldnt have made Barclays aware of when these were 
available. And Barclays said that if it had been contacted, it wouldnt have contacted Mr F in 
relation to those options as it was ultimately up to Mr F to make contact.
Mr F said that he understood it would have been for Barclays to initiate any changes to the 
policies by notification to Company A who would then have sought confirmation from him. He 
had never seen the policy documents until 2021/22 and had no knowledge of the opportunity 
of review. 
Remaining unhappy with the outcome Mr F brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. The investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
By holding the policies Barclays would only have been notified if there was any claim 
on them and the proceeds would usually be repaid to them to repay any debt. It 
would also be made aware of any amendment to the policies to ensure there was still 
enough cover for the debt.
But this didnt mean that Barclays became responsible for the administration or 
management of the policies. While it may have had an interest in the policies, it 
wasnt the policy holder. Its interest was only to ensure there was enough cover to 
pay off the outstanding debt in the event of a claim. 
Regarding the anniversaries, Company A had said that letters would not have been 
issued and would have been up to you to contact us if you wanted to take this 
option. It didnt issue a reminder for the changes. 
This confirmed that Company A didnt notify Barclays of the options and as it wasnt 
managing or administering the policies in any way, there wasnt any obligation on 
Barclays to make Mr F aware of the options or to arrange any changes for him.
For the delay in one of the policies being released to Mr F, she thought £200 already 
paid was fair compensation.
Mr F didnt agree. He said;
The option dates were the third, fifth, seventh and tenth and not the 39th and 44th as 
stated which were the maturity dates.
The insurance company, Company A, didnt exist at the time the policies were taken 
out. It was a predecessor business. So, the information received from Company A 
about letters not being sent was irrelevant.
Mr Fs comments didnt change the investigators opinion. She said;
The policies were only assigned to Barclays as security against lending which didnt 
mean it was responsible for the administration and management. So, it wasnt under 
any obligation to make Mr F aware of options or to arrange changes on his behalf.
Even though the policies were arranged by a predecessor to Company A that was an 
agent on behalf of Barclays, it was standard practice for any policy document to be 
sent directly to the policyholder by the provider.
She couldnt comment on the actions referred to by Company A about not sending 
letters. That would have to be addressed directly to Company A if Mr F wanted to but 
usually when one company took over another it would be provided with all of the 
information and records in order for it to take over and progress with the business. 
The policies were now administered by Company A who had confirmed in writing that 
it didnt notify Barclays of any options that were available to Mr F.
Because of the 50 years since the policies were taken out, information from the time 
was limited. But the investigator considered that industry practice suggested Barclays 
werent managing or administering the policies. So wasnt obliged to make him aware 
of any options available or make any changes on his behalf. As the complaint remains unresolve, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
I should first clarify I agree that the sum of £200 already paid to Mr F is a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience he was caused when only four out of the five policies were returned to him. 
Barclays recognised this error and has compensated Mr F fairly, so I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything more. 
Mr F has provided a precis of his complaint for my consideration. He explained that the sale 
of the policies was made in branch with Barclays representative contacting the insurance 
company by phone after taking his personal details. The policies were executed and 
delivered directly to Barclays who held them as security for any overdraft he may have 
incurred. Over time his financial circumstances improved and if he had known it was 
possible, he would have commuted the policies to endowment policies. But he didnt have 
sight of any of the documents so wasnt able to do this.
He said that since the sale there had been changes to the insurance provider, without his 
knowledge, and it was only recently that he became aware of the situation and the options 
he could take. Hes adamant he didnt see any of the documentation. 
I appreciate Mr Fs position but the original sales of the policies took place 50 years ago so 
there is limited information from the time. I dont find this surprising because of the length of 
time since the sale and businesses arent obliged to keep documentation indefinitely. Mr F 
acknowledges that it would be unlikely to obtain any recollections from Barclays about how it 
carried out its business at the time. 
When I consider a complaint and there is lack of evidence, limited information, or conflicting 
recollections I have to base my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. To 
reach my decision I will take into account what I do have and my knowledge and experience 
in similar circumstances. I dont mean any disrespect to Mr F regarding his version of events, 
but I equally have to bear in mind that recollections can fade over time. 
Mr F referred to shares that he deposited with Barclays as security for a different loan and 
says he was kept informed by Barclays about dividends/scrip issues etc and couldnt see 
any difference between the two situations. While I dont know the details for sure, from what 
Mr F has said it seems likely that Barclays holds the shares electronically within its nominee 
on behalf of Mr F  which is the most common way equities are held. So, the 
registrar/company would contact Barclays as the nominee holding the shares on behalf of 
the beneficial owner  Mr F  and in turn would contact Mr F with any relevant information 
about any action he needed to take. But this is a different scenario than Barclays holding the 
whole of life policies.
For the whole of life policies, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt have a role or any 
responsibility in the administration or management of those policies. It held them in paper 
form and purely as security  it didnt take ownership and Mr F remained the policy holder. It 
wouldnt have any knowledge of or input into Mr F making any decisions about the options 
that were open to him about the maturity dates or to convert the policies to endowment 
policies. Mr F remained the policy holder throughout and if there had been any correspondence from 
the insurance company, or its predecessors, I would have expected this to have been 
directed to Mr F rather than Barclays. My understanding is that this is industry standard and I 
wouldnt have expected Barclays to have received anything from Company A as it was a 
third party with its own separate and different interest in the policies  security only. There 
wouldnt have been any need for Barclays to have been involved with any potential 
alterations of the policy barring it being informed of claims or notification of any changes 
being made. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont agree with Mr F that Barclays had a 
responsibility to administer and manage the policies on his behalf. It was just holding the 
policies as security and it wasnt its role to have instructed any changes for him, and in any 
event, it wasnt contacted by Company A with information about choices that may have been 
available to Mr F. If there was any such communication, I would have expected that to have 
been between Mr F and Company A.
Mr F has said that his recollection from the point of sale is that it was made in branch, the 
sale of the insurance policies was executed, Barclays had been sent the policies direct and 
he hadnt had sight of them since. Clearly, I cant know what happened at the time and I 
accept it may have been the case the Mr F didnt see any of the documentation. But I do find 
it surprising that even if Mr F didnt ever have the policies in his possession that he didnt see 
any of the accompanying documentation or received anything since then as he was the 
policy holder. 
But in my decision, I am not looking at what happened at the point of sale, only whether 
Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably since then in its dealings with Mr F.  And from the 
information I do have I find that it has. 
I find it unlikely that Company A would have made any contact with Barclays, and which it 
has confirmed was the case. And while I understand that as Company A wasnt involved at 
the outset, rather it was a predecessor company, like the investigator, I think that when 
Company A took over the predecessor business it would have been given all of the available 
relevant records about any actions that had been taken on Mr Fs policies. So, it seems likely 
that the information given to Mr F about this was a reflection of that. 
I do have sympathy for the position Mr F finds himself in  his concerns that he has lost out 
financially and has been denied the opportunity to manage his own financial affairs, but after 
taking all of the above into consideration, I dont find that this is the fault of Barclays. I dont 
think it has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
I know Mr F feels very strongly about his complaint and I thank him for his efforts in bringing 
all the points that he feels are relevant for my attention. And no doubt he will be disappointed 
with the conclusion that I have reached. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why 
I have reached the decision that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman