DRN-3929717
The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs actions when it closed his 
accounts and terminated a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). Specifically, he complains that the 
bank unfairly applied a Cifas marker against his name.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr G successfully applied for a £15,000 BBL from HSBC. On the application 
form, he used a projected figure for his annual turnover
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
During and after Mr Gs BBL application, there were exchanges between him and the bank 
about his business turnover and his tax return. I shall discuss these in more detail below.
In November 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr G to advise it was ending their banking relationship 
after conducting an account review. Following this, Mr G contacted Cifas as hed been 
declined a credit card by another provider and was advised to seek further information. Cifas 
is a fraud prevention agency with a database which records information to protect financial 
businesses and their customers. Cifas confirmed that there was a marker against him and 
the reason for the filing was the provision of false documentation.
Mr G said that hed gone to great lengths to check that he was eligible for a BBL, and that 
HSBC shouldnt have granted the loan if that wasnt the case. Also, all funds that were 
obtained under the BBL were distributed for business purposes. Mr G said HSBC incorrectly 
and unfairly applied the CIFAS marker and he asked for it to be removed. 
Our investigator looked at all the available evidence and recommended that the Cifas marker 
should be removed. She also recommended that the bank should reimburse Mr G for the 
solicitors costs he incurred trying to challenge the marker, and pay £400 for distress and 
inconvenience. She gave the following reasons, in summary:
Mr G had been trading before 1 January 2019 and, in those circumstances, the BBL 
application form made it clear that actual turnover should be used, not a projection. 
However, while the investigator thought part of the information given on the BBL form 
may have been inaccurate, she didnt think Mr G had tried to defraud the bank. 
At the time Mr G applied for the BBL, the bank asked him for a copy of his 2018/19 
self-assessment tax return. Mr G was unable to provide that information, which he 
said he explained to the bank at the time. The bank approved the BBL.
Theres a dispute about what the parties said to each other. Mr G claims the bank 
had been happy at the time to accept projected turnover figures, while the bank say 
Mr G has since acknowledged that he knew he wasnt eligible but applied anyway. 
Both sides have referred to phone calls, in June 2020 and August 2021, which they 
say support their respective versions of events. But recordings of the calls arent 
available and therefore the investigator said she couldnt say for certain what was 
discussed.
In June 2021, the bank asked again for a copy of the 2018/19 tax return. Mr G 
submitted a version, but the bank said it was unable to accept the document and 
advised him to contact HMRC for a full copy. He did this and sent it to the bank in 
September 2021. HSBC still wasnt satisfied and in November 2021 informed Mr G 
that it would end the banking relationship.
The investigator looked at the information submitted by Mr G and asked about the 
anomalies which the bank had been concerned about. She was satisfied that Mr Gs 
explanations were plausible. In particular, the appearance of a 2015 date on the tax 
return wasnt part of the submission  rather, it was the date that the form itself had 
been created, and HMRC had confirmed that it wasnt relevant. Also, the information 
showing Mr G had ceased trading in June 2018 was actually the date on which the 
nature of his consultancy business changed. 
Moreover, the investigator looked at the full HMRC tax assessment received from 
HMRC and compared it with the document submitted to the bank, and she found that 
the information and figures matched.
The investigator therefore thought Mr G had provided plausible explanations for the 
information on his tax return. She also thought that if the bank had concerns, it could 
have approached Mr G or HMRC to seek further information. She said the criteria for 
applying a Cifas marker set an extremely high threshold and, based on the rationale 
and information shed seen, she couldnt say that the bank had applied the marker 
fairly in this case.
Mr G had instructed a solicitor to help him appeal to Cifas about the marker. He 
provided evidence that he paid £4,800 in fees. The investigator didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Mr G to have instructed a solicitor.
HSBC accepted the investigators views in part and said it had since removed the Cifas 
marker. The bank was also happy to pay £400 for distress and inconvenience. But it said 
that the instructing the solicitor was a decision that Mr G had taken, so the bank didnt think it 
was appropriate to refund the fees  hed been given referral rights to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and information on how to complain free of charge. The bank has 
added that its still unhappy with some of the information and format issues regarding the tax 
assessment documents submitted by Mr G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
The bank has agreed to the removal of the Cifas marker, which I understand has already 
been done. The main issue for me to determine is therefore whether Mr Gs legal costs 
should reasonably be reimbursed. However, as the bank continues to express some 
concerns the veracity of the tax documents, Ill look at that matter first.The HMRC self-assessment process is designed to work with commercial tax software 
where the customer uses such a facility. Im aware that that some odd entries can appear on 
the pages generated in the process. Im therefore not surprised that some parts of the draft 
return sent in June 2021 and of the HMRC copy sent in September 2021 had some 
formatting quirks which may have been carried through from the interaction with the 
commercial software. Ive seen such anomalies before in genuine tax returns, and Ive also 
seen date fields that dont reflect the tax year in question. I agree with the investigator that if 
the bank was concerned about such problems with the documents, it should have first 
pursued the matter further with Mr G or his accountant, rather than concluding the 
documents werent genuine. I dont believe that the tax documents were an attempt to 
defraud the bank, and therefore I dont think the bank acted fairly in applying the Cifas 
marker.
I turn now to the matter of the legal fees. Usually, I would agree with HSBC that, as 
customers have the right to have their complaint determined by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service free of charge, it wouldnt be reasonable to require the bank to reimburse any fees 
incurred in obtaining legal assistance with the complaint. But thats not the whole story when 
it comes to appeals regarding Cifas complaints. The procedure for challenging Cifas markers 
requires the customer to raise the matter with Cifas direct, for an independent review, before 
referring the matter to the ombudsman.
The Cifas website makes this process clear and says If, following our investigation, we 
believe the filing was correct, but you would like to continue disputing the case, the next step 
is to contact the relevant regulator or complaints scheme for the industry. In most of our 
cases the relevant scheme is the Financial Services Ombudsman Moreover, HSBCs 
response to Mr Gs complaint shows that the bank understood that the next stage of the 
process should be the direct appeal to Cifas. The bank told Mr Gs representative As 
outlined in the letter received by [Mr G] on 14 December 2021 from CIFAs  the first steps 
are to complain to the organisation who have requested the CIFAs marker and a Final 
Response Letter has been issued accordingly. The next steps would be to dispute directly 
with CIFAs.
The legal fees in this case are not those incurred during Mr Gs referral of the case to the 
ombudsman. Rather, they were incurred during his appeal to Cifas itself, which happened 
before the complaint came here, as required by the process set out by Cifas and explained 
by the bank. The investigator said she thought it wasnt unreasonable for Mr G to have 
instructed a solicitor for that appeal, because of the nature of the Cifas marker applied and 
the information required to appeal the decision. I agree with the investigator here. Facing a 
difficult matter with such serious consequences, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to have 
sought legal assistance for the Cifas appeal.
Putting things right
As I have now determined that the Cifas marker was applied unfairly, it follows that the bank 
should reasonably reimburse Mr G for his legal costs incurred during his appeal to Cifas 
before bringing the matter to Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following:
Remove the CIFAS marker against Mr G if it hasnt already done so.
Pay Mr G £4,800 for legal fees he has incurred.Pay Mr G £400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenienced caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman