DRN-3678420
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) recorded his payment history with 
a credit reference agency.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr G purchased an item on interest free credit. A running-account credit 
agreement was set up with Klarna at this time. 
A couple of days later Mr G returned the item to the retailer and asked for a full refund and 
for the credit agreement to be cancelled. In December 2019 he received a full refund from 
the retailer, rather than the refund being sent to Klarna to allow the credit agreement to be 
closed. So, Mr G called Klarna and made the payment to them, to bring the account balance 
to zero and allow it to be closed. 
In January 2020 Mr G received a request from Klarna for a minimum payment to be made to 
his account. This came as a surprise to him as the account should have been closed, and he 
contacted Klarna. It took a couple of months of discussions between them before Klarna 
confirmed the account was closed. 
In March and April 2020 Mr G made some applications for a balance transfer credit card. 
These applications were declined. When Mr G received a copy of his credit report it showed 
a missed payment in February 2020, which had been registered by Klarna. Unhappy with 
this, he contacted Klarna to complain. He said that the missed payment had led to his credit 
card applications being declined, and he wanted to be adequately compensated for that. 
Klarna didnt initially raise the complaint when it should have done, but they acknowledged 
this and apologised to Mr G in their final response letter. They also apologised for the error 
in recording the missed payment and confirmed they had asked the credit reference agency 
to rectify Mr Gs credit report. They didnt accept that the missed payment alone had led to 
the credit card applications being declined and explained that lenders consider many 
different factors when considering an application. They gave Mr G compensation of £179.10 
and said they would be able to investigate the declinature of the credit card applications 
further if Mr G provided a copy of his credit report along with confirmation from the 
businesses that declined the applications as to the exact reasons they were declined. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. While our investigator was looking into things for 
him, Klarna offered a further £50 compensation. Our investigator felt this was fair and 
explained why to Mr G. He also asked Mr G to provide confirmation from the credit card 
companies as to the exact reasons why Mr Gs applications were declined as well as a copy 
of his credit report. Mr G didnt provide anything, but said he felt it was obvious that the 
missed payment was the reason. 
As Mr G didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the Klarna running-account credit is a regulated consumer credit agreement this service 
can consider complaints relating to it. 
In Mr Gs submissions to our service he has made it clear that he thinks our service should 
hold Klarna accountable for their actions. He feels the only way to do that is to hurt them 
financially, and hes requested a significant amount of compensation as a result. I want to 
make it clear before explaining my decision that our role isnt to punish businesses, nor are 
we the regulator. Klarna have accepted they made a mistake with Mr Gs account and 
theyve paid some compensation to him for that. Theyve also made an additional offer since 
our service has had the complaint. The decision for me to make is to decide if Klarna have 
dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly. In this case I think they have. Ill explain why.
Mr G notified Klarna of his concerns and asked to raise a complaint in early April 2020. This 
wasnt actioned by Klarna until three weeks later when Mr G continued to contact them 
about his credit report, and the need for it to be rectified. At this point Klarna confirmed to 
Mr G that they would notify the credit reference agency and arrange for the missed payment 
to be removed. This process can sometimes take a couple of months for the correction to be 
applied to the credit report  in Mr Gs case his credit report was rectified in early June 2020.
On balance, having looked at the communication between Mr G and Klarna Im satisfied they 
should have notified the credit reference agency sooner, and should have logged his 
complaint at the earlier date in April. But Im also satisfied Klarna took the necessary steps to 
arrange for Mr Gs credit report to be corrected promptly once they had logged his complaint. 
It was no doubt frustrating for Mr G to find that his credit report had been incorrectly updated. 
However, Klarna have already paid him £179.10 as compensation, and have since offered a 
further £50 to Mr G. I think the total amount of £229.10 is reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered because of Klarnas error.
Mr G strongly believes the reasons his credit card applications were turned down was 
because of Klarnas error. He has said this impacted him financially and he had to borrow 
money from his family to enable him to settle his existing credit card debt. But lenders base 
their decisions to lend on several criteria. And Mr G says he wasnt told specifically why his 
credit card applications were declined. Klarna and our investigator have asked Mr G to 
provide some further evidence of the reasons for the declinatures from the credit card 
companies, and he hasnt done that. Our investigator also asked for a copy of Mr Gs credit 
report, and this was never provided. This means that there isnt anything to show me that the 
incorrect information reported by Klarna was the only reason the applications were declined. 
So, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr G has lost out financially 
because of Klarnas error. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr G, but I wont be asking Klarna to do 
anything more than pay the additional £50 compensation to him.
My final decision
Klarna Bank AB (publ) has already made an offer of £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Klarna Bank AB (publ) should pay Mr G £50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman