DRN-4031410
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) declined a payment from his account, causing
him to miss a flight.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with TSB. In 2022, he took a trip abroad. At the airport on the
outbound journey, he needed to apply and pay for a visa. He completed the form online and
tried to pay from his TSB account, but the payment was declined. Mr S says he tried to
authorise the payment using the TSB app and online banking. He says he also called TSB.
But the call disconnected before the security checks were completed, so the payment
remained blocked.
Mr S ended up missing his flight. He managed to book on to another flight leaving the
following day. The airline didnt charge Mr S for this. But he had to stay in a hotel overnight
at a cost of £75 plus meals. He says he was so distressed that he lost his jacket and keys at
the airport. He had to buy a jumper to wear. He went ahead with his trip. But, as he arrived a
day late, he says he is out of pocket because he had paid for accommodation from the day
before. Later on, the jacket and keys were found. But Mr S says the airport charged over £50
to return them to him.
Mr S says that, after the payment was blocked, TSB told him to visit a branch. He did this,
but says his card remained blocked. He says it was unblocked while he was away, even
though he wasnt in touch with TSB during that time.
Mr S says that TSB should reimburse him for the expenses he incurred due to missing the
flight and compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
But TSB says it didnt do anything wrong. It says the payment was blocked for a security
check. It says it sent Mr S a text message and tried to contact him but didnt receive a reply.
TSB says that, when it did speak to Mr S, the call disconnected before the payment could be
verified. It says it tried to call him twice the following day but couldnt make contact. So, the
payment remained blocked because TSB hadnt been able to verify it.
Mr S wasnt happy with TSBs response and brought the complaint to this service. I issued a 
provisional decision on 9 February 2023, saying that I wasnt planning to uphold the 
complaint. TSB accepted the provisional decision. But Mr S didnt agree. He provided some 
further comments and evidence for me to consider. Im now making a final decision about 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything again and considered the new evidence and comments from 
Mr S. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I havent seen anything which changes my mind about 
the fair and reasonable outcome here. I understand that the situation was very distressing 
for Mr S. But what Im looking at here is TSBs involvement and whether it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I dont think it did, so Im not going to ask it to do anything. My reasons are set 
out below.
account balance
When it responded to our Investigators view, TSB said that Mr S wouldnt have been able to
pay for the visa from his TSB account even without the security check. Thats because it said
there werent enough funds in the account at the time. Mr S disagrees and has provided
evidence of transfers he made between accounts to cover the cost of the visa. He reiterated 
this in his response to the provisional decision. As I said in the provisional decision, Im not
going to make a finding about whether the payment would have succeeded but for the
security check. Thats because the payment was declined for security reasons, which 
werent resolved before Mr Ss flight departure time. So thats the factual background Im 
considering here.
security checks
The starting point is that its right for TSB to have security measures and procedures in place
to safeguard Mr Ss account and prevent fraud so far as possible. As to exactly what those
procedures are and how they are carried out, thats for TSB to decide. What Im looking at
here is whether it applied its procedures correctly and fairly.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, there are several situations in which TSB
can refuse to make a payment. These include if the payment seems unusual compared with
the way he normally uses his account. Or if TSB believes someone else has used the
account or has used it fraudulently. Or if he doesnt provide TSB with identification to allow it
to verify his identity within a reasonable time after its asked him to do this.
TSB says that the payment here was blocked by its fraud team for a security check. I think
that was reasonable and I find that TSB was acting in line with the terms and conditions of
Mr Ss account when blocking the payment.
The terms and conditions say that, if TSB refuses to make a payment from Mr Ss account, it
will try to contact him to let him know. The terms say that TSB will usually contact him by
calling or sending him a text message and that it will do this as soon as it can. Im satisfied
that TSB sent a text message to Mr S at the time the payment was blocked. It also tried
calling him around 15 minutes later but got no answer. TSB attempted a further call very
shortly afterwards and left a voicemail. So, I find that TSB did what the terms and conditions
say it will do in this situation.
Mr S says he tried to approve the transaction using the app and online banking. But I havent
seen anything to suggest that TSB asked him to verify the transaction in this way. Mr S says
that TSB has a security feature whereby he has to approve payments by logging in. Hes 
provided screenshots, showing how this feature has been used for other payments he has 
made. I dont doubt that TSB uses this feature routinely or that Mr S has approved other 
payments in this way. 
But, in this case, the payment had been picked up by TSBs fraud team and flagged for 
security checks. Therefore, it wasnt a routine payment approval. In these circumstances, 
TSBs usual approach is to contact customers by phone. It did that here and I think that was 
reasonable. I dont find that TSB had to contact Mr S through the app or online banking to 
complete this type of security check and I dont think it acted unfairly by not doing so here.Mr S says he had a similar issue in June 2022 which was caused by a technical problem 
with TSBs app. He says TSB accepted there was a problem on that occasion and offered 
him some compensation. Mr S feels the issue here was the same. But Im satisfied that the 
issue here arose from the payment being blocked by TSBs fraud team. And Im satisfied 
that it followed its security procedures correctly. From the evidence Ive seen, I cant 
conclude that this issue arose from a problem with TSBs app or that TSB made a mistake.
failed verification
Mr S says he didnt hear his phone when TSB called because it was charging. I realise Mr S
wasnt expecting the call and it was unfortunate timing that the phone was on charge when
TSB tried calling. But that wasnt TSBs fault. Im satisfied that it tried to make contact in line
with its procedures.
On another occasion when TSB tried calling, Mr S says he was checking into the hotel and
couldnt answer the phone. He says that, by that stage, he had already missed his flight, so
the phone call wasnt relevant. I can understand his point of view. But TSB didnt know this,
so I think it was reasonable that it tried calling him again.
When TSB did speak to Mr S, the call disconnected before it could be confirmed that the
payment was valid. So, the payment remained blocked. I think that was reasonable. Having
flagged the payment as potentially fraudulent, I wouldnt expect TSB to allow it to go through
without confirmation from Mr S that it was genuine.
TSB tried calling Mr S twice more the following day but couldnt reach him. I understand from
Mr S that he was on the plane at the time, so its understandable that he couldnt answer.
But I think it was reasonable that TSB tried calling him. When it couldnt reach him, I think it
did the right thing by continuing to block the payment. By this stage, I dont think Mr S would
have wanted the payment to go through anyway, as I understand he had already paid for the
visa from another account and was on the plane.
effect on Mr Ss card and account
Mr S says that his card was blocked. He says it was then unblocked by TSB even though
TSB hadnt spoken to him to obtain authorisation. TSB says that neither Mr Ss card nor
his account were blocked. It says only the visa payment was blocked. But Mr S has now 
provided a text message from TSB which refers to his card being blocked.
The text message refers to three attempted transactions including the visa payment. The 
message asks Mr S to confirm whether these payments were attempted by him. It says if he 
replies that they werent made by him, his card will remain blocked. It says if he confirms 
they were made by him, it will unblock the card. But it says he will need to make the visa 
payment again either way. 
Mr S didnt have the phone to hand at the time. I dont know whether he responded to the 
message later on, so that the other two payments could be released. He says that TSB told 
him to visit a branch so that the card could be unblocked. TSB says it has no record of telling 
him this. Mr S says he told TSB on the phone that he needed to pay some cash into his 
account, so the agent told him where the nearest branch was and agreed that the branch 
would be able to help unblock the card. So it may be that the other two payments were 
approved during the branch visit. I havent seen any evidence about this.
But Mr Ss statements show that those two payments were released. From the evidence Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that the card didnt remain blocked, even if it was blocked temporarily. The visa payment did remain blocked though and it was clear from the text message that it 
wouldnt go through. 
I think TSB could have explained the situation more clearly to Mr S. But, having considered
all the circumstances, Im not going to ask TSB to do anything about this. Thats because
TSB tried to call Mr S several times and got no answer. And Mr S himself has explained that,
when he did speak to TSB, he didnt want to wait to be put through to the fraud team as he
didnt want to spend any more time on the phone. So, the fraud team didnt have the
opportunity to explain the situation to Mr S.
the missed flight
Ill now consider the impact of the blocked payment. Mr S says it led to him missing his flight.
This meant he had to stay in a hotel overnight and he was a day late arriving at the
accommodation which he had paid for. I sympathise with the situation Mr S found himself in
and I appreciate it was very distressing. But Im looking at this impartially and I dont think
the problems were TSBs fault.
The payment was for a visa, which Mr S needed to enter the country he was travelling to. As
Ive said, I think it was reasonable that TSB stopped the payment for a security check. Its in
the nature of checks like this that they do sometimes cause inconvenience. But I dont think
TSBs approach here was unreasonable. I dont think the security check would ordinarily
have caused undue inconvenience to Mr S. And, even with him being at the airport, I think
its likely the issue would have been resolved quickly if hed seen TSBs text message or
been able to take the initial calls and he might still have made the flight.
I realise that Mr S wasnt expecting the call from TSB. But, when the payment failed, I think
its reasonable to expect him to have checked his phone, particularly given the urgency of
the situation. I think the issue could have been sorted out if contact had been made between
TSB and Mr S. And I dont think it was TSBs fault that the contact was unsuccessful.
I also think that part of the problem here was the urgency of the situation. I understand that
Mr S was applying for the visa while waiting to travel. From the information Ive seen, it
sounds as though the time available to him to make the application was tight. Im not sure
how quickly applications are usually approved or whether the visa would have been obtained
in time for the flight even if the payment had gone straight through. But TSB didnt act
unfairly by flagging the payment for checks. And I dont think it could have known how urgent
the situation was for Mr S. In any event, TSB called Mr S promptly and, as Ive said, I dont
think it was TSBs fault that it couldnt reach him.
I understand that Mr S paid for the visa from another account in the end. He says he had the
funds available and moved them between accounts so that he could cover the cost of the
visa. Its possible that he would still have been in time for the original flight if hed made the
payment from his other account as soon as the TSB payment failed. So Ive taken this into
account in reaching my decision.
For these reasons, I dont think it was TSBs fault that Mr S missed his flight. So I dont think
it needs to pay his costs relating to that. I dont doubt that the situation was extremely
stressful. But I dont think that was all down to TSB stopping the payment and I dont think
TSB made a mistake. So I dont think it needs to pay Mr S any compensation or cover the
costs associated with him losing his jacket and keys.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S. But Im not going to ask TSB to do anything here.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman