DRN-3327467
The complaint
Miss A complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited treading as Very registered a 
default on her credit file.
What happened
In November 2016 Miss A purchased an item from Very. The cost of the item was £349.99 
and was added to Miss As credit account, which already had a balance of around £560.
In August 2017 Very advised Miss A that because she had missed several payments on the 
account, the account was being sold to a debt collection company with a balance of 
£1097.94 and that a  default would be applied to her credit file.
Miss A complained. She said the item she purchased in November 2016 should have been 
on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL).
Very looked into this and agreed with Miss A. it said the item shouldve been put on BNPL 
and that as a result, Miss A would not have been required to make payments for this item for 
a period of time. Very said it would buy the account back from the debt collection company 
and remove the administration charges. It also paid compensation of £30.
In December 2017 Very defaulted the account again. Miss A didnt find out about this until 
recently when she applied for a mortgage. She complained to Very.
Very didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when it brought the account back there was an 
outstanding balance for items which werent on BNPL, for which Miss A hadnt made 
payments.
Miss A remained unhappy and complained to this service. She wants the default removed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that when the account was bought back 
from the debt collection company, payments were still required towards the balance for non 
BNPL items. The investigator said he couldnt see that Miss A had made any payments and 
hadnt contacted the arrears team to arrange a payment plan.
Miss A didnt agree. She said the initial default was caused by Very taking a large than 
expected payment due to the BNPL not being applied to the account. This has caused her to 
go overdrawn and resulted in payment issues, meaning that payments for the non BNPL 
items werent made. Miss A said she hadnt received any of the letters sent by Very and 
hadnt been able to access her account online. She said she was unaware that the account 
was in default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Very made an error when it placed the item purchased in November 
2016 on a credit account rather than on BNPL. I can see that Very rectified this by removing 
the default. Following resolution of this aspect of the complaint, the balance on the account 
was £862.35.
Very has said that no payments were received from Miss A. It sent a notice of default to Miss 
A in November 2017 and defaulted the account in December 2017.
Miss A says that if Very hadnt taken payment for the BNPL item as well as the non BNPL 
items in early 2017, there wouldve been enough funds in her account to continue making 
payments for the non BNPL items. Miss A says she wasnt aware that payments werent 
being made for the non BNPL items and that she didnt receive any correspondence 
because she was abroad.
I understand the point Miss A is making here. However, Miss A has a responsibility to make 
payments as they fall due on the account. She also has a responsibility to keep Very up to 
date with any change of address. Even if Miss A didnt receive any of the correspondence 
sent by Very, I think she would have been aware  or should have been aware  that 
payments werent being made to the account. This would have been apparent from her bank 
statements/bank account.  
Ive reviewed the account and I can see that the first default was removed in August 2017. 
But at this time, no payments had been made for the non BNPL items for several months. 
And no payments were made to the account for the non BNPL items after Very bought the 
account back. The relevant guidelines say that an account can be defaulted if it is three 
months in arrears. In Miss As case, the account was around 9 months in arrears when the 
second default was recorded. I appreciate that Miss A may not have received the notice of 
default. However, I cant hold Very responsible for this because they sent it to the address 
they held for Miss A.
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that Very treated Miss A unfairly or unreasonably 
when it recorded the default. So I wont be asking them to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman