DRN-4355493
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) chose to close his accounts, 
without explaining why that was.
Mr R is also unhappy with how he was treated during Santanders Know Your Customer 
(KYC) process, which led up to the decision to close his accounts.
What happened
One of our investigators assessed the complaint, and they concluded that the compensation 
Santander paid to Mr R for its handling of the KYC process was fair. He also thought that 
Santanders decision to close the account was fair and explained the reasons to Mr R why 
Santander had made that decision.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont uphold this complaint, broadly for the same reasons that 
the investigator gave. I will explain why.
Information being requested
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to ask Mr R for the requested information. 
The information Santander was asking Mr R to provide is fairly standard information that 
banks, and other financial businesses are required to have in order to adhere to the Know 
Your Customer (KYC) responsibilities (also known as Customer Due Diligence or CDD), as 
set out by the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr 
R inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly when it asked (or at least 
attempted to ask) Mr R to provide the said information.
Mr R has explained that he received calls from Santander in October 2022 but was reluctant 
to provide personal information in case they were scam calls. I understand that Mr R called 
Santander back and provided information about his occupation and tax status and thought 
that was all the information that Santander wanted. Mr R says that when he spoke to 
members of staff at Santander, they seemed unsure whether he needed to provide further 
information. In response to Mr Rs complaint, Santander issued a final response letter on 30 
October 2022, and paid Mr R £150 to apologise for the service hed received. In my view, I 
think this is reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr R. 
Following this, Santander still did not have the necessary information from Mr R to complete 
its KYC checks. As a result, Santander attempted to contact Mr R a number of times through 
November 2022. This was so that it could request that he supply the necessary information. 
But Mr R chose not to engage Santander about its information requests any further.  
Account closure
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their 
decisions about that in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually intervene.
In this case, Santander decided to close Mr Rs account because it had not been able to 
obtain the necessary information it needed to complete its KYC checks. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Santander had reasonable grounds in which to close Mr Rs 
account.
I note that Mr R says that Santander made the decision to close his account without giving 
reasons. Banks dont necessarily have to provide a reason to its customers if they decide to 
close a customers account. But looking at the letters that were likely being sent to Mr R, I 
think they made it reasonably clear that his accounts were being closed because it still 
needed more information from Mr R to complete its KYC checks. So, I think it wouldve been 
apparent to Mr R, given that he chose to stop engaging with the further KYC requests, why 
Santander eventually decided to close his accounts. 
When closing accounts, banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an 
account. Usually, that means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the 
circumstances. In this case Santander informed Mr R on 5 May 2023 that it would be closing 
his accounts on 5 July 2023. Having looked at all the evidence, including the terms of the 
accounts, and relevant regulations, in my view that was reasonable. So, I cant say that 
Santander has treated Mr R unfairly when it was going through its account closure process. 
Afterall, Mr R has had plenty of time in which to engage with Santander to understand what 
specific additional information it needed, if he wished to keep his accounts with Santander 
open.
Consumer Duty
Finally, Mr R has said that the FCAs Consumer Duty should apply to Santanders handling 
of this matter. I agree with the investigators findings that the Consumer Duty doesnt apply 
in this case. 
This is because the matters Mr R is complaining about  namely, Santanders KYC requests 
and the subsequent decision to close his accounts, the latter of which was made in May 
2023  all relate to matters that took place prior to 31 July 2023. As such, even if its the 
case that Mr Rs accounts may, for whatever reason, still be open, his complaint is still about 
events that occurred prior to when the Duty came into effect. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman