DRN-3155761
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt allow her to withdraw £60,000 in cash and
she received poor customer service in relation to this.
What happened
Mrs L wanted to withdraw £60,000 in cash so she contacted Santander. They told Mrs L they
would pass her request onto the branch. Mrs L says she received a phone call from the
branch and she says she was told the most she could withdraw was £5,000.
Mrs L says that when she went into the branch, the manager wanted to have a chat with her
and asked her questions about the withdrawal, which was within earshot of other customers,
and it made her feel uncomfortable. Mrs L said that the branch manager then called the
police and asked Mrs L to wait. Mrs L said she waited for 10 minutes but needed to leave the
branch, as she didnt want her friend to get a parking ticket, so she was unable to make the
withdrawal.
Mrs L says she rang Santander head office and informed them of what happened. It was
arranged that Mrs L could withdraw £60,000 from the branch. When Mrs L withdrew this
cash, she said that the cashier stood up while counting her money and he was shouting
while counting out her withdrawal. Mrs L said that people in the queue could hear and see
the amount which she was withdrawing, which caused her anxiety.
Mrs L raised a complaint. Santander did not uphold her complaint. They said that the
withdrawal had been declined due to safety concerns. Santander said that Mrs L had left the
branch before the police could have a chat with her, so they were unable to process her
withdrawal that day. Mrs L brought her complaint to our service. She was looking for
Santander to pay her £1,000 to resolve the complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She said that Santander were following
their internal guidelines. She said the branch manager was concerned that Mrs L was a
victim of a scam as the transaction was not a usual one that Mrs L would make. Our
investigator explained the Banking Protocol, which is a course of action designed to protect
both the bank and Mrs L, from being defrauded and our investigator said that the bank had
followed this procedure.
Our investigator said that although Mrs L felt inconvenienced and was upset by what
happened, she believed Santander had no alternative but to take her to one side to discuss
what the withdrawal was for to ensure that she wasnt a victim of a scam. Mrs L did not
agree with our investigators view and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint.
Mrs L said that she felt the branch manager had a vendetta against her after taking her to
one side and later denying that she had made a large withdrawal previously. Mrs L said
when she returned to withdraw her money a few days later the cashier was stood up and
shouting while he was counting her money, which caused her a panic attack when she
reflected on the actions of the cashier when she returned home.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on the events of the complaint, so Ive looked at all of the
information available to me in order to decide what is likely to have happened. I asked
Santander if there was any Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) that was available from Mrs Ls
visits to the branch, as this would have given an indication of what happened, such as how
the branch manager approached Mrs L and where she had the conversation with Mrs L
about the withdrawal and the involvement of the police. And although the CCTV wouldnt
likely contain audio, it would have likely showed how the cashier behaved when counting out
Mrs Ls withdrawal. But Santander have confirmed that due to the time which has elapsed
they do not have this footage. So I wont be able to rely on this here.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances. Having done
so here, Im not persuaded that Santander did anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Ive considered Mrs Ls original visit to the branch first. I can understand why Mrs L would
feel embarrassed or aware of other customers looking at her if the branch manager is
discussing the withdrawal and asking her several questions about the withdrawal. But Im
persuaded that it was for Mrs Ls protection as a large withdrawal was not a regular
occurrence for her.
Ive thought about what Mrs L has said about the previous time she made a large withdrawal
and Santander didnt question her in detail then, but each individual withdrawal may be
treated differently in terms of invoking the banking protocol, which our investigator has
explained to Mrs L the banking protocol in detail. Im persuaded it was reasonable based on
Mrs Ls individual circumstances for this withdrawal, that the banking protocol was invoked
and she was asked further questions here.
Im persuaded that as the branch manager ended up taking Mrs L to one side then this
would be ensure more privacy. Santander have said due to the coronavirus restrictions that
they were limiting the number of customers allowed in the branch at any one time. So
although Mrs L has said that people were looking at her, Im not persuaded that they could
hear the conversation that the branch manager was having with her.
I can understand why Mrs L would be self-conscious about other people hearing her
conversation, but Im satisfied that the branch manager needed to have this difficult
conversation with Mrs L for Mrs Ls protection. Ive considered what Mrs L has said that she
feels like the branch manager has a vendetta against her, but Im persuaded the branch
managers actions shows that she was prioritising Mrs Ls financial security by following the
banking protocol.
Mrs L was unable to withdraw the £5,000 when she went to the branch expecting to
withdraw this amount. Im persuaded that it could cause Mrs L anxiety for having to wait for
the police to make this withdrawal. And as it was taking too long for the police to arrive, she
left the branch. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need to see that Santander
have treated her unfairly by following the banking protocol. And as Im satisfied that they
were following the banking protocol to protect Mrs L and her money, then Im persuaded that
Santander treated her fairly by doing this here even if Mrs L felt uncomfortable by Santander
doing this. So although Mrs L had assured the staff that she was using the money for her
own use and was not being pressured to make the withdrawal, Santander felt they needed totake further measures to ensure that Mrs L was not falling victim to a scam.
Next Ive thought about what Mrs L has said regarding the branch manager telling her that
she hadnt made a large withdrawal before. Im satisfied that this would be confusing for Mrs
L to hear this. Im persuaded that if the branch manager told her this its because the
withdrawal was made in the previous year and the manager hadnt looked in detail at Mrs Ls
transactions. But as a cashier confirmed that Mrs L had made this withdrawal previously,
then Im not persuaded that this would have had much of an impact on Mrs L. I say this as
even if she was told incorrect information, this was clarified by the cashier that she had
made a large withdrawal previously.
Finally, Ive considered what Mrs L has about making the withdrawal. I cant say either way
how the cashier gave Mrs L her money due to there being no CCTV available. While Mrs L
says the cashier was standing and shouting at her, Santander have disputed this. I asked
Santander if the cashier had any recollection of Mrs Ls withdrawal, but he does not work for
the company anymore so Im unable to say for certain what has happened here.
I know that Mrs L says she had a panic attack when she returned to the house based on her
experience of the withdrawal and Im sorry to hear this. But on the balance of probabilities
Im persuaded that the cashier would need to be loud enough for Mrs L to hear him counting
the money to her, but Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities, it is unlikely that he
shouted when counting her money out as Santander would need to try and be as discreet as
possible that Mrs L was withdrawing a large amount of money, although as Mrs L was
making a large withdrawal, I can understand why she feels the way she does about this.
Ive noted the strength of feeling from Mrs L that the cashier was too loud when he was
counting out Mrs Ls money and she was anxious that other people could hear him and
would be aware of the amount of money which was being withdrawn. But as Santander have
confirmed that they can only give Mrs L the withdrawal at the counter for security reasons,
Im not persuaded that there was much more the cashier could have done here as he would
be unable to take Mrs L into a private room and count out the money away from the counter.
In summary, Im persuaded that Santander fairly followed the banking protocol to ensure that
Mrs L wasnt a victim of a scam. So it follows that I dont intend to ask Santander to do
anything else.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Santander did not respond to my provisional decision. Mrs L did not accept my 
provisional decision and wanted to clarify some points. In summary, Mrs L said that she 
didnt ask to be interviewed in a private room or for the money to be counted out in a private 
room as she was happy to be dealt with at the counter as she always had been. 
Mrs L said she still maintains that the cashier and the branch manager were unprofessional 
as the branch manager watched the cashier counting out Mrs Ls withdrawal, whilst he was 
standing and being loud. Mrs L pointed out two previous large withdrawals she had made at 
Santander. She said she left the branch feeling relaxed and safe and both withdrawals were 
made in a professional way.
Mrs L said that when she attempted to make the withdrawal, she didnt make it to the 
counter as she was intercepted by the branch manager and took to a desk in the middle of 
the floor, where people coming and going could hear the conversation. She said that it was 
so embarrassing for the police to be called on her and it was completely unnecessary as 
there was no sign she was a victim of a scam. She said she needed at least £5,000 to pay to 
the builders and she shouldve been able to get that as confirmed with Santander over the 
phone as she had two valid forms of identification.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs L has said about being intercepted by the branch manager before 
she could make it to the counter to withdraw £5,000. Im persuaded that as the branch were 
concerned that Mrs L was a victim of a scam that they needed to ensure they followed the 
banking protocol. As such, instead of letting Mrs L go to the counter only to be told she 
couldnt have the money until the police arrived, Im persuaded that they wanted to explain 
this away from the counter as there would likely have been more customers around this area 
who may have heard the conversation as opposed to the area around the desk.
Mrs L has said that the desk she was took to was in the middle of the floor and other people 
could hear the conversation and the fact the police was called was embarrassing. I can 
understand why she would say this, especially as she had made much larger withdrawals 
previously and she says this didnt happen. But as I said in my provisional decision, CCTV 
was unavailable to me so I cant say for certain if other customers were in close proximity of 
Mrs L and the branch manager or if they could hear exactly what was being said. 
Im satisfied that the branch manager was concerned that Mrs L was a victim of a scam. 
Although Mrs L knows she wasnt being scammed, it would be more difficult for the branch 
staff to be certain of this and this is why Im persuaded that the branch manager here 
invoked the banking protocol, even if the same process wasnt carried out previously when 
she made the larger withdrawals. 
Ive also considered what Mrs L has said about the call handler saying she should have 
been able to get the £5,000 cash that day based on the identification she had. But Im not 
persuaded that the banking protocol should be ignored because Santander could facilitate 
the £5,000 withdrawal on the day. It appears that Mrs L would have been able to get the 
£5,000 after speaking to the police, but unfortunately, she didnt have the time to do so. 
Ive thought about what Mrs L has said about the cashier being loud and standing when 
counting her withdrawal to her. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I cant say either 
way how the cashier gave Mrs L her money due to there being no CCTV available. While 
Mrs L says the cashier was standing and shouting at her, Santander have disputed this. Im 
persuaded that the cashier would need to be loud enough for Mrs L to hear him counting
the money to her, but Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities, it is unlikely that he
shouted when counting her money out as Santander would need to try and be as discreet as
possible that Mrs L was withdrawing a large amount of money, although as Mrs L was
making a large withdrawal, I can understand why she would be self-conscious of this.
In summary, Mrs Ls response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs L will be disappointed with the
decision, but I hope she understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Gregory SloanesOmbudsman