DRN-1963797
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Saga Services Limited didnt pay interest on a refund it provided 
when a claim was settled under Mr his car insurance policy. Mr Cs son is representing him 
in his complaint. So Ive referred to Mr C as Mr C1 and his son as Mr C2 in my decision.
What happened 
Mr C1 was involved in an incident in October 2017 and made a claim under his car 
insurance policy. The claim was settled by the insurer as a non fault claim in July 2019. 
While a claim is open, the industry approach is to record the claim as a fault claim until all 
recovery costs have been recovered. This meant that at renewal in 2018 and 2019 Mr C1 
paid a higher premium for his insurance. But once the claim was settled, Saga recalculated 
the difference in premium Mr C1 had paid the insurer and provided a refund. 
Mr C2 complained to Saga on behalf of Mr C1 as he believed it should have paid interest on 
the refund. But Saga said Mr C1 had paid the correct premium up until the claim was settled 
as a non fault claim. 
Mr C2 asked us to look at his fathers complaint. He said he was unhappy with the length of 
time it took to settle the claim. 
Our investigator explained that we would ask a business to pay interest on a refund if it had 
held - or asked for a customers money - in error. But in this case Mr C1 had paid the correct 
premium due until the claim settled. So she didnt believe Saga owed Mr C1 interest on the 
refund. 
The investigator explained that the underwriter of the policy is responsible for the handling of 
a claim, not the broker Saga. So Mr C1 would need to raise a separate complaint with the 
underwriter if he was unhappy with the time it took to settle the claim. 
Mr C2 didnt agree. He believes Saga should deal with his fathers complaint about the delay 
in settling the claim. He doesnt think its fair that his father lost interest on money he had to 
pay for something that wasnt his fault. 
As Mr C2 didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C2 feels that because his father wasnt at fault for the incident, it isnt fair 
that he lost interest on the money he paid for a higher premium in 2018 and 2019. But the 
claim was correctly recorded as a fault claim while it was open. And so the premium Mr C1 
paid for insurance at renewal in 2018 and 2019 was correct. So Saga didnt benefit from the 
difference Mr C1 paid during this time. 
Saga promptly arranged a refund of the difference in premium once the claim was settled as 
a non fault claim. So I dont think Saga did anything wrong. 
Mr C2 told us that hes unhappy with the length of time it took for the claim to be settled. And 
he believes we should investigate this complaint against Saga. But in this case, Saga is the 
broker that arranged the policy. The underwriter of the policy is responsible for dealing with a 
claim. If Mr C2 wishes to raise a complaint about this on his fathers behalf, he can contact 
the underwriter as the correct business to reply to his concerns. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman