DRN-2321000
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs R say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The policy covered 
Mr R, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application had a section for PPI, which asked them if theyd like it 
or not. The option to buy PPI was chosen, and Mr and Mrs R picked what kind of cover they 
wanted. They then signed the form to confirm their choices.
Mr and Mrs R pointed out that the PPI policy was also on their mortgage offer, which they 
now feel is indicative that it was compulsory. I do understand why they thought to raise this. 
But their mortgage offer was only describing the policy theyd already chosen, which is quite 
normal. And this offer came after their mortgage application, where theyd already been 
offered a choice and chosen PPI. So while I take their point, I dont think the offer document 
meant that their PPI was compulsory.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Bradford & Bingleys sales process from the time, nor 
any evidence which makes me think that Mr and Mrs R were misled or unfairly pressured 
into having PPI here. So far as I can see, they were given the option, and chose PPI. So 
I dont think I can fairly conclude that Bradford & Bingley misled them. Given the evidence 
and the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely that Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and 
Mrs R a choice, and that they chose to take PPI at the time.
Bradford & Bingley didnt give Mr and Mrs R tailored advice about buying PPI  this was an 
information only, or non-advised sale. That means Bradford & Bingley didnt have to check 
whether the PPI was right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs R clear information, so 
that they could decide for themselves whether it was right for them.
It is possible that the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs R about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed their minds.
Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the policy, which indicates they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it looks like 
Mr R was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
It wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and covered him for longer. It also meant 
Mr and Mrs R could effectively protect any savings and use them for other things. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs family may have been happy to help, but I wouldnt consider 
that to be a proper replacement for insurance  theres always the chance someones unable 
to help when needed. And while I also understand Mr R felt stable in his job, he was quite 
new to his role at the time. And in any case, accidents, illnesses and redundancies can and 
do happen  even in situations that feel secure. So it looks like the PPI could have really 
been useful for Mr and Mrs R in case something went wrong for Mr R. Further, the policy 
was competitively priced, and it could be cancelled at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information about PPI was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs R.
But Bradford & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Bradford & Bingley got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Bradford & 
Bingley didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Bradford & Bingley has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Bradford & Bingley should pay 
back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit 
share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bradford & Bingley should also pay 
Mr and Mrs R 8% simple interest* on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done so, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman