DRN-3262689
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the charges that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) applied to 
her account. She says they caused her financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss L complained to Barclays about the charges applied to her account.  Barclays issued a 
final response letter on 7 February 2020. This letter outlined the time limits Miss L had to 
bring her complaint to this service. 
Miss L brought a further complaint to Barclays. Barclays didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint 
and issued another final response letter, on 7 January 2021 following which Miss L brought 
her complaint to this service
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and found that because Miss L hadnt brought her initial 
complaint to us within six months of Barclays final response letter, we could only look at the 
charges applied to her account from 7 February 2020. But because by this stage Miss Ls 
account had been closed and sent to a third party debt collection agency there was nothing 
to look at. 
Miss L has asked for an ombudsman decision on the matter. 
Why I cant look at charges applied before 7 February 2020
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  and in this case Barclays hasnt - I cant look into a 
complaint if its been referred to us more than six months after the business sends the 
consumer its final response letter, telling them they can refer their complaint to us. This is 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
Barclays issued its final response on 7 February 2020. Ive seen a copy of this and Im
satisfied it fits the meaning for a final response as defined in the DISP rules - including the
referral rights setting out the six month time limit. This means Miss L had until 7 August 2020 
to refer the matter to the service. But she didnt do so until 2021, so I conclude the complaint 
was referred to us out of time under the rules that I have to apply and I can only look at what 
has happened from 7 February 2020.
I accept that Miss L did bring a further complaint and another final response was issued by 
Barclays in January 2021  but this does not allow us to look into the merits of a complaint 
that has previously had a final response issued and a further complaint doesnt re-start the 
clock.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicator. Barclays have told us that Miss Ls 
account was closed on 8 April 2019 after it issued a termination notice on 5 March 2019. At 
the time it had an outstanding balance of £1,514.19 which was passed to a third party debt 
collection agency. 
So as at 7 February 2020 (the period from where I can look at Miss Ls account) this account 
was no longer in existence with Barclays and as such I cant say that Barclays have done 
anything wrong.
So Im sorry we are unable to help Miss L on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman