DRN-3321114
The complaint
T, a limited company, says BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) mis-sold it a group medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
T holds a group insurance policy with BUPA that provides a cash contribution if beneficiaries 
make an eligible claim. The sole director of T  who Ill call Ms K  has complained about the 
outcome of a claim she made as a beneficiary of the policy. Thats the subject of a separate 
complaint. Ms K also complains that if shed been aware that the annual excess figure would 
erode the outpatient annual limit, T would never have bought the policy. Ms K says the policy 
must have been mis-sold as its unsuitable, especially now more treatment is provided on an 
outpatient basis.
BUPA said that the policy was sold in 2006, and at that time the annual excess was £200 
and the outpatient limit £250. It said it had limited information about the sale given how long 
ago this was, but that the excess limit had changed in 2017 and this had been explained to T 
at the time. It said renewal paperwork had showed the new limits ever since.
Unhappy about this Ms K asked us to review Ts complaint.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had mis-sold the policy. She looked at copies of 
paperwork sent to T in 2006 and thought that these had been reviewed by T at the time, 
based on notes made on the documents. She noted that the excess at the time was £200, 
and thought that this would likely not have prevented T from buying the policy as it was lower 
than the annual outpatient limit.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise that isnt what Ms K on behalf of T wants to 
hear, but Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
This policy was sold a long time ago in 2006, so its not unreasonable for BUPA not to have 
many details about how the policy worked then. But Ms K very helpfully provided some of 
the original paperwork, and Ive been able to take that into account in reaching my decision.
The documents provided by Ms K have handwritten notes on them  so I think its safe to 
say they were reviewed by a representative from T at the time of the original sale. And they 
do say that not all of the benefits are available to every buyer  so T would have chosen 
what benefits suited its employees and paid the appropriate premium. At the time the excess 
chosen was £200 and the outpatient limit £250. 
Ms K says it was never explained that the excess eroded the outpatient annual limit. Ive 
read the paperwork and I think it did. Theres an explanation about how excesses (or co-
insurance) works. In summary, this says that if a bill is for an amount higher than the excess 
then the customer pays the excess amount to the person providing the service and BUPA 
pays any outstanding amount. The documents go on to say that its important to register all 
treatment as (even if no payment is made) the cost of that treatment is offset against the 
excess and could enable future payments. Theres no suggestion that outpatient treatment is 
excluded from the way the excess is applied to claims. 
In summary, the excess reduces payment for any treatment  outpatient or otherwise  until 
the limit is reached. After that, eligible claims would be met in full up to any annual limit. If 
several claims were made in a year, then its possible that outpatient costs would be met  it 
would depend on the order of eligible claims.
Ms K, on behalf of T, may not have thought the way an excess is applied was important 
when the policy was sold. Thats especially so as in 2006 the excess was lower than the 
outpatient limit. But Im satisfied in any case that BUPA explained how the excess works 
when set against any annual limit.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
BUPA sent us information about later terms and conditions and what had happened from 
2017 onwards when the excess limit changed. I havent looked at that in detail because T 
has only complained about the original sale.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman