DRN-3212395
Complaint
Miss F has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly failed to 
provide her with an overdraft after sending a message telling her that her overdraft payment 
holiday had been approved.
Background
Miss F applied for an overdraft interest payment holiday in May 2020. She received a text 
message telling her that request was approved before later being told that she couldnt have 
an overdraft as her account wasnt eligible for one. Miss F was unhappy with this and 
complained. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss F and Nationwide had told us. She thought that 
Nationwide hadnt treated Miss F unfairly in relation to not providing an overdraft and the £25 
it had offered for the confusion caused by telling Miss F she was approved for the interest 
holiday was fair and reasonable. So she didnt recommend that Miss Fs complaint be 
upheld. Miss F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
I can understand why it must have been frustrating for Miss F to have been refused an 
overdraft  especially after she initially received a text message telling her that request for an 
overdraft interest holiday had been approved. But the temporary guidance that the regulator 
brought in didnt say that providers had to provide a £500 interest free overdraft to all 
customers. What it said was that providers should ensure that any customer who already 
had an overdraft, or was eligible and successfully applied for one, on their main current 
account shouldnt have to pay interest on the first £500 for three months.
Miss F didnt have an overdraft on her account. And most importantly wasnt eligible to apply 
for one on the account she had. This is because Miss F had a basic account which didnt 
allow borrowing such as an overdraft on it, rather than a full current account which allowed 
for such facilities. So while I understand Miss Fs disappointment at not being provided with 
the overdraft she thought she was going to get, this is something that she simply couldnt be 
provided with on the account she had. And Im satisfied that that Nationwide didnt unfairly 
refuse to provide Miss F was a facility she was entitled to.
I do accept that Nationwides text message saying that Miss Fs overdraft interest holiday 
was approved caused confusion. But Im satisfied that the £25 already paid in compensation 
for this is fair and reasonable, as the matter was clarified relatively quickly and Miss F was 
told the correct department to contact should she wish to access other products which could 
have allowed credit  such as an overdraft facility - to be obtained.  
So overall while I appreciate that additional confusion would have been created during what 
was already an unsettled period, bearing in mind Miss Fs wasnt unfairly declined an 
overdraft she was entitled to, I dont think that Nationwide has treated Miss F unfairly and Im 
not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss F. But I 
hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman