DRN-3133099
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unreasonably 
refused to consider a critical illness claim made under their joint term assurance policy, and 
instead cancelled Mrs Cs cover altogether.
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs C want L&G to pay their claim in full.   
What happened
In bringing their complaint, Mr and Mrs C are represented by Mr M, a third party financial 
adviser. 
Mr and Mrs C applied for joint mortgage protection on 16 June 2015. It offered them 
decreasing life and critical illness cover with an initial sum assured of £137,970 for a 21-year 
term. The application was completed on their behalf by their financial adviser. 
The application was accepted on standard terms and acceptance of those terms was 
confirmed by Mr and Mrs C on 21 June 2015. The policy began on 17 August 2015. 
In 2020, Mrs C was sadly diagnosed with a type of cancer. In July 2020, Mr C made a claim 
to L&G for critical illness benefit. Thereafter L&G spoke with Mrs C in September 2020 and 
also sought further medical evidence to validate her claim.  
In April 2021, L&G said it wasnt able to consider the claim, because it had identified a 
discrepancy in Mrs Cs recorded weight on her medical records. In the policy application, she 
had stated she was 87kg and 165cm tall. However, when visiting the GP shortly after the 
policy came into force it was recorded that Mrs C weighed 110kg. 
On that basis, it could not have insured Mrs C. L&G explained that it had to void the policy 
from the outset due to deliberate/reckless misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs C complained. They said they were disgusted with the language used to refuse 
the claim  where it was insinuated that Mrs C had lied. They said, in summary:
there was no understanding of Mrs Cs current circumstances, and L&G had acted 
insensitively throughout;
they had highlighted inconsistencies in Mrs Cs medical records but L&G hadnt 
addressed them;
the claim process had dragged on for months without any proper contact until Mr M 
got involved;
the call of September 2020 was at a time where Mrs C was undergoing gruelling 
treatment yet the call handler had insisted she must discuss the matter despite 
feeling confused and unwell;
medical professionals make errors with weight recordings  for example, in a 
chemotherapy session of September 2020 paperwork showed Mrs C to be 160cm 
tall, when she was in fact 165cm;
two GP records from 2013 show weights similar to that disclosed in 2015 but these 
were ignored;
Mrs C believed she had lost weight since 2013 and declared as such on the 2015 
application form;
she did not begin to gain weight until 2016, at which time she had to purchase new 
clothes  and she recalls this;
therefore the GP record of July 2015 stating she weighed 110kg is incorrect;
she accepts the GP records of 2016 and 2017 are likely correct in terms of her 
weight because of some family issues she had in 2016 including a bereavement, but 
the height was still wrong;
but these were still less than the 2015 record  and she didnt lose weight in 2016;
the record of 2018 stating she weighed 70kg is wrong though her height is finally 
accurate; 
the fact she was recorded as having lost some 30+kgs in 2018 shows how GPs and 
medical professionals mis-record weights frequently;
Mr and Mrs C went to see their financial adviser in 2018 as they had wanted to 
reapply for insurance on moving to a new house  and at that time he told them they 
shouldnt reapply because Mrs C had gained weight;
there was no way of proving Mrs C knew (which she denies) she weighed more than 
she disclosed on her application  to then use this as a reason to say she acted 
deliberately to obtain insurance was unfair;
Mrs C truly believed she had given accurate answers;
L&G had decided which evidence it accepted and which it ignored with no 
reasonable measure or basis;
if L&G places so much emphasis on the figures being 100% accurate, why didnt it 
insist on a GP appointment with height and weight being recorded at that time and 
agreed by all parties;
Mrs C feels she has been accused of fraudulent behaviour and it was impossible to 
reach that conclusion.  
In May 2021, L&G issued a response to the complaint. It said it was satisfied it had reached 
the right outcome with the claim. When assessing the evidence from the relevant oncology 
department, it noted Mrs Cs Body Mass Index (BMI) was recorded as 45 on 27 July 2020. 
It was for this reason it had been prompted to review Mrs Cs disclosed weight and height on 
her application against what was recorded in the relevant medical records. 
However, it agreed it had not reviewed the claim or treated Mrs C with the compassion and 
sensitivity that it should have, and it recognised that its customer service had fallen notably 
short. Specifically, it had continued with the call in September 2020 when Mrs C was clearly 
distressed and had asked for Mr C to address it. Whilst L&G had needed to speak with Mrs 
C about her information, it recognised this would have been better placed in written format to 
avoid distress. To that end, it offered to pay Mrs C £400 to reflect the upset she was caused. 
Finally, L&G confirmed it had offered to continue with Mr Cs insurance as a sole policy, and 
he had accepted as such  therefore a partial refund of premiums was issued to Mrs C. 
Mr M brought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of 
our investigators. He said L&G had chosen to ignore that in January 2018 Mrs C was 
recorded as weighing 70kg. He also explained how Mrs C worked in the insurance sector 
and she understood the duty to make accurate disclosures better than the average person. 
On that basis, Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have paid almost £1,000 per annum in policy 
premiums for cover that would not likely pay out because of inaccurate information.  
In Mr Ms view, L&G had searched for ways to avoid the claim and justify voiding a policy because of a recent reference to Mrs Cs BMI in 2020  which had no bearing on her 
circumstances in 2015. It had also taken some seven months to give the outcome to the 
claim, and only after Mr M had become involved. This delay, along with badgering Mrs C 
about an unrelated arthritis diagnosis caused her significant upset at a time when she was 
undergoing life-saving treatment for her type of cancer. Mrs C ought therefore to have this 
stress and anguish recognised in the form of compensation.  
Mr M said the premise that an insurer can avoid a genuine claim merely because a 
policyholder has gained weight or suffered from unrelated medical conditions in subsequent 
years undermined the entire basis of the protection insurance industry.  
Our investigator believed that L&G had reasonably determined that a misrepresentation 
occurred on the policy application. He said he felt it was fair to rely on Mrs Cs medical 
records regarding her recorded weight. If L&G had known this, it couldnt have insured her. 
Finally, he felt the £400 offered by L&G was reasonable compensation for the customer 
service issues Mr and Mrs C had raised.  
Mr M said that Mr and Mrs C did not accept the investigators conclusions. He said the 
financial adviser that assisted Mr and Mrs C in applying for the policy said he saw no reason 
to disagree with Mrs Cs confirmed weight and height when recording her answer  and 
given the 23kg difference in the GP record, this would have been apparent to him. 
On this basis, Mr M submitted that the investigator had not fairly considered the evidence, as 
the advisers recollection was also evidence which should be taken into account.  
Further, Mr M said there should be considerable doubt placed on the GP record. The GP 
recorded Mrs C as 70kg in January 2018, which was a significant difference. Further, the 
records relating to her height had varied. This must, in his view, show the inaccuracy of the 
records as a whole.  
Mr M also said that the record the investigator put to Mrs C dated 27 July 2015 never took 
place at all  Mrs C cannot remember it and says she never met the medical professional 
recorded on those notes.  
Mr M said L&G had the option of underwriting the application at outset; it could have asked 
for a medical examination at the time but it chose not to do so. Instead, is has relied on 
weight readings which are subsequent to the application, clearly questionable in nature and 
it has ignored any evidence to the contrary as justification for declining the claim.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view on the complaint. So, the matter was 
referred for a decision by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I know Mr M and Mr and Mrs C feel very strongly about this matter and my 
decision isnt the answer they were hoping for, but I will set out my reasons for reaching this 
conclusion below. Id also like to send my best wishes to Mrs C, as I can see that she has 
been through a particularly difficult time. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what L&G has done.
When it was obtaining information from specialists treating Mrs Cs specific type of cancer, it 
was noted that Mrs C had a recorded BMI of 45. Whilst it was entirely possible Mrs C had 
gained weight since her policy began, L&G didnt act unfairly in looking at this matter further 
because it was markedly different from the record of Mrs Cs weight in the policy application.
There was also reference to arthritis, which had not been disclosed. On this basis, L&G sent 
a targeted medical report to Mrs Cs GP, covering the relevant period preceding the policy 
application  and it limited its questions to only those two points. 
The matter of arthritis has rightly been disregarded by the parties and I wont be looking at 
that further. In respect of Mrs Cs BMI, L&G asked for the GPs recorded height and weight 
(to calculate BMI) for any date prior to when the policy began.  
L&G says its underwriting rules meant it couldnt have insured Mrs C for any critical illness 
cover at all, and life cover would have attracted a rating too large to offer as a standalone 
policy. Because of this, it cant pay a claim now and has accordingly returned the premiums 
Mrs C paid for her share of the joint cover.  
It therefore falls to me to look at what Mrs C was asked, and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation, upon which L&G could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the policy. 
The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application. 
That means looking at what was asked against the relevant evidence (including the medical 
records) up to the date Mrs C signed the declaration on the checking your details form.
In response to being asked her height without shoes and weight in indoor clothes, Mrs C 
said she was 165cm (5 feet 5 inches) and 87kg (13 stone 10lb) on her application. She also 
gave a corresponding UK dress size.  
The only two relevant entries in Mrs Cs medical records are both from 2013- in May and 
December of that year. Those both mis-record Miss Cs height as 162cm (5 feet 4 inches) 
and note her weight as 89kg and 93kg respectively. 
Unlike Mr Ms submissions, I do not accept that the medical records in relation to height vary 
wildly. Almost all the GP records of height record Mrs C as 162cm, with one outlier of 1.6m  
which may have merely disregarded the decimal place. And, these are approximately 
3cm/one inch below Mrs Cs stated height. I do not consider this to be a vast difference in 
relation to calculating BMI. Measurements of height may, in my view, vary within a small 
range such as 3cm. 
The two 2013 records are consistent with Mrs Cs quoted weight on her application. 
However, the policy did not come into force until 17 August 2015. The letter to Mr and Mrs C 
of 16 June 2015 states how L&G was able to offer Mr and Mrs A the cover theyd asked for 
on standard terms, and asks then when they want the cover to start  not that any insurance 
contract had already come into effect. 
Mrs C then signed a checking your details form on 21 June 2015  she was sent a copy of 
her answers to review, and this expressly set out that if the answers on your application are 
not correct, or are out of date it may mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled Please tell us straight away if you need to change any of your answers 
before the policy starts.  
The policy application declaration signed by Mrs C also says [I] agree to immediately inform 
Legal & General in writing if there are any changes to any answers under the following 
categories given on the application before the policy starts: Medical information. 
I therefore take the view that Mrs C knew, or ought reasonably to have known that L&G 
needed to be aware of any changes to her stated answers before the policy started  which 
was at a date of their choosing for the mortgage protection to align with their capital 
repayment mortgage.  
Mrs C attended her GP the following month  on 27 June 2015 - and met with a doctor to 
discuss paraesthesia of her hand and foot, neck, and back pain. It was recorded by the GP 
that Mrs C had gross truncal obesity and the plan in relation to her symptoms was noted as 
weight loss encouraged. Mrs Cs weight was recorded as on examination 110kg (17st 
5lb).  
I am mindful that Mrs C cannot recall this appointment and specifically that she says she 
does not believe it happened. I also note Mr M says the financial adviser did not consider 
Mrs C weighed 110kg the month before when completing the application. This evidence is 
something I take into account, but I must also assess the evidence in the medical records. 
Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on the 
balance of probabilities.
Mrs C accepts her weight records in 2016  set out by the GP as 107kg and in 2017  as 
106kg were likely correct. I recognise she has explained that traumatic events of 2016 were 
what unfortunately caused her to gain weight. 
However, I have seen no objective reason why L&G ought to either disregard the medical 
record or conclude that the record was falsified. Though the next record post-dates the 
policy application, the record of Mrs Cs plan in respect of weight loss was carried to her next 
visit at the GP. On this occasion, she underwent routine gynaecological testing with a nurse 
in November 2015 and her weight was recorded as 115kg (18st 2lb).  
Mr M argues that the two medical records of 2013 would indicate Mrs C was the weight she 
disclosed on her application. But these records are not the most proximate to the application. 
And I do not consider a visual assessment of Mrs Cs weight by her financial adviser is likely 
to be as reliable as a measure recorded by a medical professional and confirmed as having 
been taken during an examination of Mrs C.  
Similarly, I do not place any significance on the record of January 2018. Though it is noted in 
that record that Mrs C weighed 69.8kg, this was not an observation on examination by any 
medical professional  rather, the record is a typing of notes by a member of support staff 
who was completing electronic patient registration data for administrative reasons. This 
record was not of any medical assessment or examination by a clinician. That this record 
was mistyped does not determine that I must ignore the GPs assessment of July 2015. 
I recognise that it cannot be said with any exact certainty what Mrs Cs weight was in June 
2015. Nonetheless my view is that the examination by Mrs Cs GP is the most likely 
evidence of Mrs Cs accurate weight in 2015, given it was little over a month after Mrs C had 
given and reconfirmed her answers to L&G. And crucially, I find this is the most persuasive 
evidence of her weight before the policy began. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation as Mrs C did not set out an accurate response to a clear question in the policy application. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be 
categorised in one of two ways  either, as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it would not have been able to insure the applicant, it can void the 
policy.
In my view Mrs Cs actions fall within the careless category; she made a mistake or 
oversight resulting from a lack of care rather than any intent to deceive L&G. Careless 
misrepresentation is set out as anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent 
mistake, to serious negligence. I believe Miss Cs failure to accurately disclose her weight 
sits in that band, noting the GP record of July 2015 discussed her weight and gave a plan to 
address her paraesthesia symptoms by attempting to achieve weight loss. 
In the event of misrepresentation that is careless an insurer can avoid a policy altogether  if 
it can demonstrate that it could not have offered any insurance in the first place. And this is 
what L&G has already done, returning Mrs Cs premiums to her. 
I have seen the underwriting information, and whilst I cannot repeat the exact limit here, L&G 
uses a weight threshold proportionate to each height for the purposes of calculating a 
policyholders BMI. In Mrs Cs case, her recorded weight (at her stated height of 165cm) in 
2015 exceeds that threshold, meaning L&G would have refused all critical illness cover and 
not offered standalone life assurance because the rating was too high. 
Im therefore unable to order or compel it to reach a different assessment and pay Mrs Cs 
claim, as that is not the appropriate remedy for this type of misrepresentation; if L&G had 
known about Mrs Cs relevant medical circumstances, it would never have offered her critical 
illness cover in the first place.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman