DRN-3917300
The complaint
Mr B complains (through a representative) that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
(Cashfloat) didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks before it granted a loan which he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr B took one loan from Cashfloat for £400 on 8 June 2021. Mr B was due to make three 
monthly repayments with his largest payment being £190.55. Mr B repaid the loan on 
31 August 2021. 
Following a complaint, Cashfloat wrote to Mr B with a final response letter in March 2022. 
Cashfloat didnt uphold the complaint because it said, in summary it had carried out 
proportionate checks which showed Mr B would be able to afford the loan repayments he 
was committed to making.
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator, who wrote to Mr Bs representative. 
He concluded Cashfloat made a reasonable decision to lend the loan because it carried out 
a proportionate check which showed the loan to be affordable. 
Cashfloat responded to say it accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr Bs representative didnt agree with the outcome, and he made two points. Firstly, 
although this was Mr Bs first loan with Cashfloat he had taken other payday loans from 
other providers. Secondly, Cashfloats checks ought to have gone further into reviewing 
Mr Bs credit history rather than relying on the application at face value. Had a further check 
been carried out Cashfloat wouldve discovered Mr Bs use of other payday lenders. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied in Mr Bs case. 
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr B worked full time and received a monthly salary of £1,600. 
I appreciate that Mr B says he was in fact a full-time student when this loan was approved, 
but Cashfloat didnt have any other evidence to show this at the time, and indeed it was 
entitled to relay on the information Mr B provided about his income. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr B declared to be £210 per 
month. These costs related to travel, food, other loan repayments. Mr B declared his rent / 
mortgage was £0. Which, usually, could indicate some additional costs, but as part of his 
application he declared he lived at home with parents, and so this low amount of expenditure 
wouldnt have seemed unusual or out of place.  
Cashfloat says Mr Bs application was subjected to a full affordability and creditworthiness 
assessment and the results of this were positive indicating Mr B could afford the 
repayments.  But the results of these tests hasnt been provided but that hasnt had an 
impact on the outcome Ive reached taking into account the information Mr B declared. 
Based on the income and expenditure information Mr B declared, Cashfloat wouldve been 
reasonably comfortable that he could afford the maximum monthly payment he was due to 
make of £190.55. There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Cashfloat to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr B had provided.
I appreciate Mr Bs representative says that Cashfloat ought to have made further enquiries 
into Mr Bs credit history. But there isnt a requirement for a lender to carry out a credit 
search before a loan is advanced. So, the fact, a credit search doesnt appear to have been 
carried out, wouldnt be a reason I could use to say that Cashfloat ought to not have lent
Mr B this loan. Especially, because the other information gathered suggested Mr B had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to 
have relied on the information Mr B provided about his income and expenditure to show he 
had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the loan.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman