DRN-2693099
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received during a claim he made on his roadside 
assistance policy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited. Reference to Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S holds a roadside assistance policy with LV as a benefit of his bank account. When his 
car suffered a puncture on the motorway, he made a claim to LV for assistance.
Mr S explained that one of his passengers was vulnerable so he requested that his claim 
was prioritised. Mr S called for an update on where the patrol vehicle was and found out his 
request for his call out to be prioritised hadnt been actioned.
Approximately 90 minutes after Mr S reported the claim, the patrol vehicle arrived. Due to 
the location of his car, it couldnt be repaired at the side of the road. Mr Ss car didnt have a 
spare tyre either. Mr S wanted his car to be repaired, but unfortunately the depot where his 
car was recovered to, didnt have a spare tyre either.
LV arranged for Mr S and his passengers to be returned home. It explained it couldnt 
arrange for the recovery agent to take them home, so it said it would arrange a courtesy car 
for Mr S to continue his journey home. The courtesy car couldnt be dropped off at the depot 
where Mr Ss car was recovered to, so LV arranged for a taxi to pick up Mr S and his 
passengers to take him to the hire car depot.
Mr S said he had to wait around 45 minutes for the taxi to arrive, and then another 30 
minutes at the hire car depot to get the car. Hes said when he got the car it was dirty, too 
small and not an automatic as hed requested.
Mr S complained to LV about the whole experience. He wasnt happy his request to be 
prioritised wasnt actioned and wasnt happy it took almost three and a half hours from when 
he made the claim to be given a courtesy car. And hes said the car he was provided with 
wasnt suitable and wasnt clean. Hes said he wasnt provided any assistance with food or 
drink either.
LV looked into Mr Ss complaint and offered to reimburse him £50 for what hed spent on 
food or drink. It acknowledged it could have provided him a better service and updated him 
better. But it thought overall the timeframes were acceptable. It said it had provided the hire 
car agent feedback about the condition of the courtesy car. But it said it couldnt guarantee a 
courtesy car in the first place. And it said Mr Ss policy limited him to a small car to get him 
and his family on their journey. LV offered Mr S £100 compensation, which it later increased 
to £150.
Mr S wasnt happy with LVs response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr S complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought LV 
could have offered a better service. But she thought the £150 compensation it offered, in 
addition to offering to reimburse £50 for food and drink was a fair and reasonable offer.
Mr S disagreed, and also pointed out that he was charged by the hire car company. Our 
investigator let LV know of this charge. LV said it wasnt something theyd been made aware 
of before but agreed Mr S shouldnt have been charged it. So it arranged for this to be 
reimbursed.
Mr S remains unhappy overall. He thinks a fairer offer of compensation would be £500 and 
has asked for an ombudsmans opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I know this wont be the answer hes 
hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr Ss policy with LV is a roadside assistance policy. I need to consider whether or not LV 
did what it was required to do under the policy, and whether in doing so it caused any 
avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr S.
Mr Ss policy with LV says that if Mr Ss vehicle breaks down and isnt able to be repaired at 
the side of the road itll transport his vehicle, along with him and up to seven passengers to a 
place of repair. Im satisfied LV did this. Mr Ss car suffered a puncture and didnt have a 
spare tyre. And due to its location on the side of the motorway, any attempt at repair was 
deemed unsafe. Mr Ss car was recovered to a repairer along with him and his passengers.
Mr S has said he wanted to get the car repaired there and then and be on his way home in 
his own vehicle. Hes said LV didnt allow this to happen as it had already arranged the hire 
car for him. But I cant agree here. I think LV was open to this, but unfortunately the repairer 
didnt have a spare tyre either, so Mr Ss car couldnt be repaired. Ultimately once recovered 
to a repairer, the repair of the car isnt covered by the policy, so I cant hold LV responsible 
for the repairer not having a spare type available.
But Mr Ss policy does say if the fault or damage cant be repaired by the end of the day and 
if the breakdown occurred more than quarter of a mile from his home, then LV will arrange 
for Mr S and his passengers to be transported to a destination of his choice in the UK. I can 
see LV offered to transport Mr S and his family to a hotel, but Mr S was keen to get home so 
chose to return there.
Mr Ss policy says he may be provided with a hire car (up to 1,600cc) for up to 48 hours. And 
I can see this is what happened. I appreciate Mr S wanted a larger car and an automatic, but 
this isnt something the policy provides for.
Overall, I think LV did what it said it would do and acted in line with Mr Ss policy. But as its 
already acknowledged, it could have provided a better service throughout the claim.
Mr S asked for his claim to be prioritised, and as far as I can tell, LV agreed to do so, but 
never actioned it. I can see why this would be extremely frustrating to Mr S, especially as 
breaking down on a motorway would be a stressful experience in itself. That said, the patrol 
car did arrive in around 90 minutes, and I dont think thats an unreasonable timeframe. 
Mr Ss policy doesnt guarantee a timeframe in which hell be seen in. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest there were unreasonable delays in getting a patrol car out to him, or 
that any patrol car could have been with him sooner had his request been correctly 
prioritised.Mr S and his family then had to wait for a taxi to take him to the hire car depot. And again 
here I can understand how this would have added additional stress to the situation. But I 
dont think the wait of 45 minutes is unreasonable. And whats more I dont think that delay 
was within LVs control. I cant see it delayed requesting the taxi.
The taxi then took Mr S and his family to the hire car depot, which was very close to where 
his car suffered the puncture. Again, I can see how this added to his frustration, but I dont 
think LV did anything wrong or unfair here. At the time of the puncture it didnt know if Mr S 
and his family would need a hire car or whether theyd need transporting to another location 
such as a hotel. So as frustrating as it was to have been returned to very close to the 
location he broke down in, no closer to home and around three hours after making the claim, 
I dont think this was something that could have been avoided by LV. And ultimately it was, 
as set out above, acting in line with the policy.
Mr S and his family had to wait once more while at the hire car depot. So at this stage I can 
see how theyd be extremely tired, stressed and wanting to go home, especially as one of 
the passengers was vulnerable as Mr S had told LV. But I dont think the wait of around 30 
minutes to get the hire car while at the depot is unreasonable, and as with the wait for the 
taxi, I dont think this was within LVs control. As explained above, I think the hire car was in 
line with the terms of the policy. But I can understand Mr S being unhappy with the condition 
of it, especially at the end of such a stressful experience. LV said they fed this back to the 
hire car provider, which is reasonable.
Breaking down is a stressful experience at any time. Breaking down on the side of the 
motorway, in the evening, on a long journey home is even more stressful. I have to consider 
the stress of the situation in context when determining whether or not I think LV have acted 
fairly or not. Undoubtedly here, LV has added to the stress of the situation. But Im satisfied 
that what it has done to try and put that right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. It offered to refund Mr S £50 for food and drink  but as 
Mr S didnt spend anything on food and drink there was nothing to reimburse. Its refunded 
him what he was incorrectly charged by the hire company. Its offer of £150 compensation on 
top of this, I consider, a fair and reasonable offer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman