DRN-3535831
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
I issued provisional decisions on this complaint in February and April of this year. An extract 
from my most recent provisional decision is set out below.
Mr O took receipt of a used car in January 2021. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was approaching seven
years old and had already done a little more than 56,000 miles, although the exact mileage
isnt clear.
Mr O broke down on 23 July 21. The garage noted that the fuel pump had been starved of
fuel, the filter was blocked, and the fuel pump had failed.
Mr O asked MotoNovo to repair the car but they refused. So, Mr O referred his complaint to
this service.
Our investigator thought MotoNovo hadnt been fair. He thought the car hadnt proven
durable and he suggested MotoNovo pay to repair the car for Mr O.
MotoNovo disagreed and asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint, but the redress is a little different than our investigator
had suggested. Please let me explain.
the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered the whole
file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here was about
seven years old and had already completed over 56,000 miles although the exact mileage
isnt clear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its
quality. But MotoNovo say as the fault with this car occurred 11 days after the six-month
period we should assume the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. They say its most
likely the fuel pump failure is the result of normal wear and tear.
When we consider whether goods are of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation says we
should also consider whether they have proved durable. Im not persuaded that a
reasonable person would think a fuel pump that had been serviced correctly, as this one
had, should fail after only 59,000 miles of driving.
I dont think its necessary to instruct an independent engineer to examine the car here.
Online research suggests a fuel pump should last about 100,000 miles and I think its
therefore likely this one has failed prematurely and as a result I think the car has been of
unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation says that businesses should be given one opportunity to repair faults
that were most likely present, or developing, at the point of supply, as I think this fault was.
The investigator therefore suggested that MotoNovo should repair the car and Id agree. But
the investigator didnt consider that Mr O has been paying for a car since 23 July 2021 that
he hasnt had use of. I think MotoNovo should refund (or waive if they havent been paid)
any finance instalments that have been paid by Mr O from 23 July 2021 when the car broke
down until the date it is repaired. Theyll need to add interest to the refund as Mr O has been
deprived of the money.
I also think its clear Mr O has been inconvenienced by these issues. He broke down on the
motorway and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have
been resolved earlier for him. In those circumstances, Im expecting to tell MotoNovo to pay
him £200 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo
Finance Limited to:
Collect and repair the car at no cost to Mr O,
Refund any finance instalments Mr O has made from the point at which the car broke
down (23 July 2021) until the date it is repaired. Add 8% simple interest per year to
the refund from the date of payment to the date of repair.
Pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.MotoNovo didnt provide any further information but Mr O did. He told us that he had the car
repaired on 25 October 2021 and he provided receipts for that work totalling £7,150.
He also provided a further receipt for £350, dated 16 November 2021, and explained that
was for work completed because during the initial repair one of the coolant feed pipes was
disturbed and that had to be replaced as well.
Its disappointing that Mr O didnt tell us he was arranging that work as I wouldnt have
suggested MotoNovo collect and repair the car had I known. Ive thought about whether that
impacts the decision Im likely to make here but I dont think it makes too much difference.
The file notes suggest the repair was likely to cost in the region of £8,000 and Mr O has
spent less than that. As the repair appears to have been successful I think its likely that
even if MotoNovo had been given a chance to fix the car they would have done the same
work and at a similar cost.
So, Im expecting to tell MotoNovo to refund the repair cost of £7,150 that Mr O has provided
a receipt for.
Im not expecting to tell MotoNovo to refund the £350 Mr O paid to have the coolant pipe
replaced in November 2021. Thats because I havent seen sufficient evidence that that
repair was required to remedy the problem Mr O had in July 2021. Mr O has explained that
the coolant pipe was disturbed during the repair. Thats not something I think it would be
fair to ask MotoNovo to pay for as that would suggest it was not something that was wrong
when the car was supplied to him.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
Refund the repair cost of £7,150 that Mr O has provided a receipt for.
Refund any finance instalments Mr O has made from the point at which the car
broke down (23 July 2021) until the date it was repaired (25 October 2021). Add 8%
simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of repair.
Pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
Experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O and MotoNovo accepted my provisional decision and Ive therefore seen no reason to 
change it.
Putting things right
My most recent provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:Refund the repair cost of £7,150 that Mr O has provided a receipt for.
Refund any finance instalments Mr O has made from the point at which the car
broke down (23 July 2021) until the date it was repaired (25 October 2021). Add 8%
simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of repair.
Pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
Experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman