DRN-2933532
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that he was drawn into high risk investment and wasnt provided with 
adequate advice from Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity).
What happened
The facts arent in dispute. In summary Mr B had some previous investment experience and 
when looking into the Woodford Patient Capital Trust PLC (WPCT) fund the reports were 
glowing and he was particularly attracted to the gains within the investment. 
So in 2015 Mr B completed an application to transfer into a Fidelity stocks and shares ISA. 
He chose to invest in the WPCT at 100%. Mr B says it was his understanding that thered be 
FCA oversight for this investment, so he acted in good faith when choosing this as his 
investment choice. 
Mr B had also invested in other Woodford funds which had been suspended in June 2019; 
however the WPCT fund wasnt suspended. Mr B was unhappy that Fidelity didnt warn him 
about the Woodford collapse, and he felt Fidelity had misinformed him when buying the fund. 
By April 2020 he had lost nearly 78% of his original investment. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found Fidelity had acted fairly in handling 
Mr Bs investment. Our investigator was satisfied that no advice had been given to Mr B and 
also that Fidelity wouldnt have known that the Woodford fund would have collapsed.
Mr B remains unhappy particularly as he feels theres a toxic relationship between the fund 
manager and the company running WPCT. Hes unhappy that around 300,000 investors will 
potentially lose £1 billion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to mention that as a service we can only consider the complaint Mr B has 
raised and the impact it had on him. I appreciate other people maybe in the same position as 
Mr B, but I am only considering his complaint. 
Ive looked at the information that Mr B completed at inception of the ISA. He signed a 
declaration accepting that the terms and key features document had been read.  That 
document has a section headed Important Information. It says:
Please note that Fidelity Personal Investing does not provide advice, and therefore, is not 
required to assess the suitability or appropriateness of investments that you choose, that we 
many hold for you, or for other services provided to you by Fidelity. This means that you do 
not benefit from the protection of the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules on assessing 
suitability. If you are in any doubt about the suitability or appropriateness of any particular 
investment or service, we recommend that you consult an authorised financial adviser.
Based on the agreement Mr B entered into, Im satisfied he consented to a non-advised 
investment platform. So in other words Fidelity didnt provide any advice and only provided 
the platform on which Mr B was able to carry out any investments. It was an execution only 
service. I find that Fidelity made this clear. In turn it meant it was up to Mr B to pick his own 
investments based on the information available to him and his own research. I can see Mr B 
did choose the investment he wanted but believes that in promoting that investment Fidelity 
gave him advice. I dont agree. Advertising a product isnt the same giving advice. But in any 
event Mr B has said that the Woodford fund was attractive to him based on his own research 
of its track record.
Mr B is understandably unhappy with the losses hes suffered. Having carefully looked at the 
statements I can see Fidelity were sending out statements regularly to him. The statements 
show Mr Bs investment wasnt performing so I think its fair to say that Mr B could have 
been aware something wasnt quite right. It was up to him to act on that information if he 
wanted to. Of course he might have decided to wait and see if the fund recovered, but that 
was his choice.
Mr B says an ISA is a savings product and not something thats a gamble. As the statements 
were being sent to Mr B Im satisfied Fidelity carried out their duty and Mr B could have been 
aware sooner that the investment value was dropping and that his ISA wasnt just a savings 
vehicle. An investment always has the chance to go up as well as come down. And I cant 
see anywhere it was guaranteed Mr B was going to get a return on his investment. In all the 
circumstances, and as Fidelity werent able to give advice, I dont find that they have done 
anything wrong.
I note that Mr B had investments elsewhere with Woodford, so I find its more likely than not 
he would have been aware of the potential losses he could have incurred across his 
investment portfolio. But as he didnt hold all of his Woodford holdings with Fidelity I cant 
say they acted unfairly in not telling him about the collapse of the Woodford funds that were 
different to the holdings he had with Fidelity. And as his investment was still tradeable, I 
wouldnt have expected them to have alerted him to the collapse of the other funds.
Finally whilst I do sympathise with Mr Bs situation, and note that very sadly he lost his wife 
during this time, Ive not seen anything to show the fund manager and Fidelity are acting as 
one here, so I wont be asking Fidelity to do anything differently.
My final decision
I recognise that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given above my 
final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman