DRN-1534306
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr F was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. At the point of supply the van was around 1  years old with mileage of 36,000. 
Within the first 4 weeks Mr F reported an issue with the windscreen wiper turning on by itself 
and not turning off. He took the car to a garage who repaired the windscreen wiper and 
reprogrammed the body control module. The repairs were carried out under warranty.
In June 2019 Mr F contacted MotoNovo again and reported faults with the van including the 
fog lights turning on during the day and the windows not working properly. Mr F provided a 
diagnostic report which showed numerous fault codes, including faults with the headlamp 
control module and parking aid module.
MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection of the van in August 2019. The engineer 
found no faults but noted that Mr F had reported that the faults only presented when it was 
raining.
MotoNovo advised Mr F that it wasnt able to uphold his complaint because no faults had 
been found. 
A further independent inspection was carried out at the end of August 2019 but no faults 
were found. 
In September 2019 Mr F arranged for another diagnostic test. This showed missing 
communication with body control module.
In October 2019 Mr F complained to MotoNovo about a leak from the steering rack and that 
the power steering wasnt working. He took the van to a garage who confirmed that the 
power steering wasnt working and carried out repairs including replacing the hose assembly 
from the pump to the steering.
Mr F complained to this service. He said he was still experiencing electrical faults. He 
obtained a further diagnostic report which shows faults with the power train control module 
and one of the cylinders. It also showed that the heating/air conditioning system had lost 
communication with the body control module.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought it was likely that there was a fault with 
the van because Mr F had returned it to the garage on two occasions in May 2019 and 
November 2019 and repairs had been carried out on both occasions. The investigator said 
the diagnostic reports showed that there were faults with the van. She didnt think a  
reasonable person would expect a van of this age and mileage to have so many issues and 
said Mr F should be allowed to reject it.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that the faults were present or 
developing at the point of supply. It said the fault codes shown on the diagnostic reports 
could be historic and relied on the independent inspections which had found no faults. 
MotoNovo said that Mr F had continued to drive the van with a known fault and had covered 
above average mileage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo has supplied the van under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Vans are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the van and the price 
paid. Satisfactory quality also includes durability, which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a  reasonable amount of time. 
Mr F and MotoNovo disagree about whether the van was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. In order to reach a decision I need to look at all the available evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probability, whether the van had an inherent fault.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, faults which occur in the first 6 months are presumed 
to have been present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one attempt at repair. If the attempt at repair is 
unsuccessful the consumer is allowed to reject the vehicle. After 6 months, the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that there was a fault at the point of 
supply.
Mr F experienced issues within the first 4 weeks. The job sheet from the garage who carried 
out repairs in May 2019 shows that (amongst other things) the body control module was 
reprogrammed. It was soon after this that Mr F experienced further issues  and reported 
them to MotoNovo. These issues werent the same as before but were similar insofar as they 
were related to the vans electrics.
Ive had regard to the two independent inspection reports. Whilst I can see that neither 
inspection concluded that there was a fault with the van, I have to weigh all of the available 
evidence alongside these reports. The job sheets dated May 2019 and November 2019 
show that repairs were carried out, which suggests that there was a fault with the van worthy 
of repair. Ive also taken into account the diagnostic reports provided by Mr F, all of which 
show fault codes. Ive noted that a failure to communicate with the body control module is 
mentioned on two of the diagnostic reports and that this was the part of the van that was 
reprogrammed during the first repair attempt. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that there was a fault with the van, both 
before and after the independent inspections were carried out. I dont think the repair which 
were carried out to the body control module were successful. Because this has been the 
subject of two fault codes on subsequent diagnostic reports. I cant say why the independent 
inspections didnt find any faults but on the balance of evidence Im of the view that the van 
had a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply and that the repair attempt 
was unsuccessful.
Ive taken account of MotoNovos comments regarding the diagnostic reports. Ive no reason 
to suspect that the fault codes were historic, bearing in mind that the van was only 1  years 
old with relatively low mileage. MotoNovo has said that Mr F continued to drive the van with a known fault. I dont think Mr F 
has done anything wrong by continuing to drive the van, because MotoNovo (or agents 
under its instruction) told Mr F that the van was fault free following the independent 
inspections.
In considering whether the van was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, Ive also had 
regard to durability. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have to carry out two 
repairs in less than 9 months. Further, I wouldnt expect a van of this age and mileage to 
have developed issues such as this. Im persuaded by the information supplied by Mr F that 
there were faults with the van. I dont think the component parts of the van were durable or 
that the van was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Putting things right
There have been two attempts to repair Mr Fs van but hes continuing to experience issues 
and the most recent diagnostic refers to a lack of communication with the control module 
which has already been the subject of one attempt at repair. Mr F has said that hes been 
unable to drive the van since 7 January 2020 due to the ingoing issues. I think MotoNovo 
has had reasonable opportunity to repair the van and because these attempts have been 
unsuccessful , Mr F should now be allowed to reject the van.
I also think Mr F should receive a refund of payments for the time hes been unable to use 
the van. This includes the time when the van was first returned for repair, where it was at the 
garage for 3 weeks. 
I can see that Mr F has covered significant mileage in the van in between repairs, so I wont 
be asking MotoNovo to refund all of his payments.
Its clear that Mr F has been impacted by matters. Hes had to return the van for repairs and 
arrange diagnostic tests on more than one occasion. Hes also had to arrange alternative 
transport since January 2020. So I think its reasonable to ask MotoNovo to compensate Mr 
F for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered, and to reimburse him for the cost of the 
diagnostic reports (to the extent that he hasnt been reimbursed already).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the van to be collected at no cost to Mr F
Refund the deposit together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund (pro rata) payments from 26 April 2019 to 21 May 2019, 7 November 2019 
and from 7 January 2020 to date to reflect loss of use, together with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Reimburse Mr F £54 for the diagnostic reportRemove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman