DRN-3391503
The complaint
Ms S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let her reject a car that was both 
faulty and unsuitable.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
While Ms S had some issue with the car after collection I note that the independent report 
which was undertaken some four months after purchase states that these would most likely 
not have been present at the point of sale. I am slightly surprised by that conclusion given 
Ms S reported the faults within days of collecting the car.
However, I need not comment further as I do not believe the faults to be the key issue in 
addressing this complaint. I consider that while there may have been a breach of contract, I 
am satisfied that there was misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
I have listened to the call provided by Moneybarn and Ms S expressed some concerns about 
the car and the fact she was unable to test drive it due to Covid rules. She was also 
concerned that the dealer was located some distance away from her home. 
She was reassured by the broker that: if you drive the car away, youve got 14 days to 
return that vehicle. It gives you chance then to have a 14-day test drive in effect.  This was 
incorrect and it amounts to a false statement of fact. It clearly influenced Ms S as she felt 
reassured that she wasnt committing to buy the car. After she acquired it she was unhappy, 
but she wasnt able to return the car and it seems the dealer didnt fully engage with her.
So, as I am satisfied there was misrepresentation as defined within consumer law I believe 
this complaint should be upheld. As she has had use of the car she should pay the monthly 
payments due for the period she has had it. She should only be liable for the period up to the 
date she accepts this decision.
Furthermore, she has also suffered distress and inconvenience in dealing with this matter 
and I think she should be compensated to the sum of £150.
Putting things right
Ms S should be allowed to reject the car and be compensated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Ms S, 
end the agreement with no further cost,
pay Ms S £150 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered.
If Moneybarn has made any adverse entries on her credit file these should be 
removed
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman