DRN-3556279
The complaint
An organisation, which Ill refer to as S, complains about how Lockton Companies LLP 
(Lockton) dealt with the renewal of its insurance policies over a period of many years. 
Mr P, brings the complaint on behalf of S. 
What happened
In 2021, S advised Lockton it did not wish to renew with its exiting insurer for the next policy 
year, as it was unhappy with how a claim had been dealt with. S was then informed by 
Lockton that it was unable to place Ss policy with another insurer as it had worked exclusive 
with the existing insurer for the past few years. 
S was under the impression Lockton had searched the market at each renewal and had 
been recommending the most competitively priced policy for its needs. S complained 
Lockton hadnt made it aware of its exclusive arrangement with the insurer and that because 
of this, it had likely been overcharged for its policies in the previous years. It also raised 
concerns that Lockton had a financial interest in recommending the insurer it did and gained 
increasing commission at Ss expense.  S also pointed to a statement made in an email sent 
prior to the renewal of the policy in 2020 which said Lockton had spoken to the 
underwriters. S said this reinforced its impression Lockton was searching the market to 
provide a competitive policy recommendation. 
Lockton looked into Ss concerns but explained it didnt believe it had acted incorrectly. It 
explained it had issued its capacity statement each year to S which explained on which basis 
it had acted. It pointed out that this statement did explain that only a renewal from the 
existing insurer had been sought in three previous years. It also explained that its 
commission from the sale of the policies had remained the same and had only increased in 
the last year. Based on its long-standing relationship with S, it offered to make a payment to 
it, equal to the commission it had received in the last year.  
An investigator looked at the complaint but explained to Mr P that he didnt think Lockton had 
acted incorrectly in how it had handled Ss policy renewals. Mr P disagreed with the 
investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigation for the following 
reasons:
Lockton worked on an advised basis. Which means it needed to consider the 
demands and needs of S to recommend a policy arrangement which met them. Im 
satisfied it did this and the policy cover provided by the existing insurer did meet 
those aims. 
Lockton also needed to explain to S the basis under which it was recommending the 
policy and whether it had searched the market or not. Im satisfied it did this by 
providing the capacity statement before renewal terms were accepted each year. Ive 
seen the emails from Lockton to S each year where this was provided. So, prior to 
agreeing to the renewal of each policy S had information available to it which would 
have made it aware on which basis the renewal recommendation was being made. S 
also had a responsibility to read and understand the information it was being 
provided with. 
Mr P has suggested the fact he was able to secure insurance for S at a significantly 
cheaper price shows Lockton wasnt acting in Ss best interests. However, as I have 
explained above, Lockton did provide information to S that only renewal from the 
existing insurer was being offered, in the last three years, and that it had not 
approached or considered any other insurer. If S was unhappy with this, then it was 
for it to take alternative action. 
Lockton provided its business principles information document to S each year which 
set out how it would receive renumeration for policies arranged through it. So Im 
satisfied S was provided with this information. 
Mr P has suggested receiving commission was the main reason behind Lockton 
recommending the policy from a specific insurer only. It isnt for me to interfere in the 
commercial decisions a business chooses to make. However, Lockton has explained 
the challenges the market in which S required insurance. It has also shown that the 
commission it took until the last policy year in which S renewed, remained static.  As 
a gesture of goodwill, it has offered to make a payment to S equivalent to the last 
commission payment it received. It is up to S whether it wishes to accept this offer.
Ive considered the statement made by Lockton in 2020 which explained it has 
spoken to the underwriters. However, Im not persuaded this statement is factually 
incorrect. This email was part of a chain where S had been negotiating the level of 
cover and premium to be charged by the insurer via Lockton. And therefore, Im not 
persuaded it is misleading. Where bespoke insurance is required individuals called 
underwriters decide what cover can or cant be offered.  In the context of the email 
chain I dont believe it was intended to mean underwriters, plural, as in different 
insurers. I appreciate these terms can be used interchangeably in some instances, 
however here I think the context is clear.
Mr P has suggested the arrangement Lockton had with the insurer harmed the way in 
which the insurer dealt with a claim S made under its policy, which was declined.  I 
have not seen any evidence provided which supports this assertion. In any event, if S 
is unhappy with the way in which the insurer has dealt with a claim it would need to 
make those concerns known to the insurer directly. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Ss complaint against Lockton Companies LLP.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman