DRN-3828863
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna have refused his request to change the date 
his repayments are due on his fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr R took out a 36-month fixed sum loan agreement with Klarna to purchase 
a laptop. He paid a £110.60 deposit, and the remaining outstanding balance was financed 
via the Klarna loan. The loan was provided at an APR of 14.9% and Mr R was required to 
make 35 payments of £34.01 and a final payment of £32.04 to repay it. 
In September 2022, Mr R contacted Klarna to request a change to the date his loan 
repayments were due. After some initial confusion, Mr R was advised changing his payment 
date wasnt an option. Unhappy with this and how the advisor had made assumptions as to 
why he was requesting the change to the payment date, Mr R logged a complaint. 
Klarna issued its final response on 3 October 2022. In this Klarna said it wasnt able to 
change repayments dates on its Term Loans, due to system limitations. It referred Mr R to 
the loan terms and conditions that explained when repayments would be due under the 
agreement.
Unhappy with Klarnas response Mr R referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded that Klarna hadnt acted incorrectly 
when it explained it wasnt able to change the due date of the monthly loan repayments. 
Mr R still disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. Therefore, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Klarna have provided a copy of Mr Rs loan agreement. Regarding repayments the 
agreement states: 
You shall repay the total amount payable by an initial payment of £34.01 payable one 
month after the shipment of the goods/services made by the Supplier, followed by 34 
monthly payments of £34.01 starting two months after the shipment of the goods/services, 
followed by one final payment of £32.04.
In this case Klarna has explained the goods Mr R purchased were shipped on 25 March 
2022. Therefore, as per the agreement, the repayments were correctly set up for the twenty 
fifth day of each month going forward. In addition, the agreement doesnt have any 
provisions that detail the repayment date can be changed. Given this Im satisfied that 
Klarna has acted in line with the loan agreement terms. 
Mr R has said that in not allowing him to change the repayment date, Klarna hasnt acted 
with due care. Klarna has explained that due to system constraints, it isnt able to change 
payments dates for Term Loans and therefore these must be repaid as per their 
agreements. 
I acknowledge Mr R would like to change the repayment date for his loan and is not an 
unusual request. However, Klarna has provided a reasonable reason why it cant change the 
payment date. Not being able to allow Mr R to manage his finances the way he feels he 
should be able to, doesnt mean Klarna is acting without due care. It is not always possible 
for a bank or finance provider to be able to assist with every request a consumer makes. 
In this case, Klarna made Mr R aware of the repayment terms when he first took out the loan 
and Mr R agreed to bound by those terms. I therefore dont agree that Klarna is acting 
without due care in not being able to grant Mr Rs payment due date change request.
I understand Mr R was unhappy with the assumptions the advisor he was talking to made 
regarding him being in financial difficulties. Having read the chat transcript, I do agree the 
advisor appeared to initially misunderstand the nature of Mr Rs request. But Im satisfied the 
advisor was trying to be helpful and offer solutions that they believed could assist Mr R. I 
dont believe the advisor was being disrespectful and they quickly apologised for any 
misunderstanding. 
Given the above, Klarna doesnt need to take any further action regarding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Klarna Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman