DRN-3592520
The complaint
Miss C complains that she must declare Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds cancellation 
of her motor insurance policy. Miss C is represented in this matter by a family member but, 
for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to Miss C in my decision.
Miss C bought her Admiral policy through an intermediary and most of her correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with Admiral. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to Admiral includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Miss C took out an Admiral car insurance policy through an intermediary. In March 2021, as 
part of an audit, Admiral asked Miss C to provide several documents (for example, a utility 
bill and her driving licence). 
Miss C was ill and asked her mother to send these to Admiral. Her mother tried to send them 
by email but unfortunately mistyped the recipient email address. This meant Admiral didnt 
receive the documents. A week later, it cancelled Miss Cs insurance. 
Miss Cs mother complained to Admiral. She accepted her mistake but says her daughters 
insurance premiums have increased because she must tell insurers about this cancelled 
policy. Admiral refused to do this.
Miss C was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She wants Admiral 
to remove any record of the policy cancellation, so she doesnt have to declare this in future. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. She accepted that 
Miss C  not Admiral  had made a mistake but she didnt think it was fair that this mistake 
should affect Miss Cs future insurance premiums. She thought Admiral should remove the 
cancellation record from its records.
Admiral disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents the 
customer from being identified. The circumstances of this case are known to both parties so 
Im not going to set them out here. If Im vague about Miss Cs illness its to keep her from 
being identified not because Ive ignored it or think it irrelevant.
Theres no real dispute about what happened here. Admirals intermediary carried out a 
standard audit. Its initial letter to Miss C on 5 March 2021 didnt explain the consequences of 
failing to provide the requested documents but its follow-up letter on 15 March did. This said: 
Unless we receive all documents we requested within 7 days from the date of this letter, we 
will be unable to continue your insurance cover. Miss Cs policy booklet allows Admiral to 
cancel your policy at any time by sending seven days notice in writing to your last known 
address if you fail to respond to written requests for information or documentation 
(General conditions, paragraph 4).
Im satisfied that Miss Cs mother has shown she tried to send the documents to Admirals 
intermediary but got the email address wrong by a single letter. Shes also shown that she 
didnt get a bounce back or undelivered email notification, sought confirmation that Admiral 
had received the documents, and didnt receive Admirals cancellation letter until several 
days after it cancelled the policy.
Admiral doesnt agree that it should remove the policy cancellation from Miss Cs record. It 
says: we dont physically report a cancellation for missed payments to a database, so this 
isnt something that can be removed. It also told us that it sympathise[d] with the 
customers situation, however it is for new insurers to decide how they rate on this 
information. 
I dont think thats good enough. I think the increase to Miss Cs insurance premiums are 
disproportionate to her mistake. In any case, the policy wasnt cancelled because of a 
missed payment. I also think Admiral might have acted more sympathetically, particularly 
given Miss Cs mother told it about her daughters illness a week before it cancelled the 
policy. For example, it might have allowed more time for Miss C to return the documents.
Given the circumstances of this case, I think Admiral should make sure any record of Miss 
Cs cancelled policy is removed from any internal or external database. If this is impossible  
as Admiral seems to be arguing  it should amend any records to show that it was Miss C 
who cancelled the policy, not Admiral.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to remove any record of the policy cancellation from any internal or external 
database.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman