DRN-3352264
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Trading 212 UK Limiteds (Trading 212) trading app crashed, 
and her account was frozen. As a result, she suffered a financial loss which she wants put 
right.
What happened
Miss K had an investment pie with Trading 212 which contained several instruments. On 28 
January 2021 Trading 212s trading app crashed, and her account was frozen. The app just 
said calculating for her pie and Miss K wasnt able to take any action with her investments. 
Miss K said that usually when she moved her investments around on the pie it on took a few 
minutes to rebalance. She referred to a particular shareholding  GameStop (GME)  which 
had skyrocketed on the day and that she was aware other customers werent able to use 
their app either. Miss K thought Trading 212 had frozen the app on purpose to stop people 
making a profit. She said this sounded like market manipulation by Trading 212. 
Miss K didnt receive any response from Trading 212 when she made contact. The money 
she held was very important to her and the situation was very stressful, for which she 
wanted compensation for both.
In response to her complaint, Trading 212 said the following;
When trading in stocks which were imported into her investment pie, the pie would 
need to be rebalanced  a process which submitted market orders to be executed. 
Those orders were executed according to market conditions which determined the 
time and order they would be executed if there was going to be a delay as well as the 
possibility that an order may be cancelled.
It referred to clause 10.4 of its client agreement which referred to market conditions 
affecting the time it takes for orders to be executed.
And it also referred to clause 10.9 where Miss K had acknowledged and accepted 
there may be a delay in order execution. 
Clause 10.15 explained that market conditions could cause temporary delays to the 
execution of orders. And that it would not accept any liability for potential or actual 
losses that could be suffered. 
When cancelling a rebalancing process of the pie Miss K had automatically submitted 
a request for all her filled orders to be cancelled. It referred to Clause 10.13 of its 
terms about cancelling the execution of an order. 
Miss K had agreed that Trading 212 wouldnt be liable for technical issues on its 
platform and referenced clause 25.1 for events beyond its reasonable control. 
The technical difficulties the app faced on the day didnt have any influence over the 
execution or cancellation of her orders. Her order had been filled and executed in 
accordance with market conditions and its legal obligations. 
Our investigator who considered Miss Ks complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said;
In January 2021 the stock market was extremely volatile in part caused by social 
media platforms citing interest in certain shares. This caused an extreme strain on 
the entire trade execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost all trading 
platforms.
Miss K had been trying to sell Naked Brand Group (NAKD) shares but was 
prevented from doing so, and as evidenced by forum groups, so were many other 
investors. 
Trading 212 used an execution intermediary to trade and any orders Miss K placed 
were simultaneously passed to the broker and were executed in accordance with 
market conditions. 
When rebalancing her investment pie Miss K was placing trade orders in the 
underlying instruments and which was ongoing until all orders had been executed. 
Any cancellation/further rebalance would cause further delays.
Miss K had tried to rebalance her investment pie on several occasions between      
27 January and 2 February 2021 and her holdings were eventually sold on                
2 February. 
The share price of NAKD on 26/27 January 2021 increased over 250% and the 
volume of trades was significant. These shares were very volatile at the time. And the 
overall volatility of the stock market would have impacted the trades being executed 
each time a rebalance/cancellation request was made. She didnt think Trade 212 
had acted unfairly. 
Trading 212 had delayed in responding to Miss K. it explained that it had received 
over 20,000 similar queries over the two days which would have impacted on its 
normal service standard. In a conversation with Miss K Trading 212 had advised 
there was a risk of execution disruptions. 
Trading 212s execution intermediary was unable to process orders due to the 
increased volatility and which wasnt allowing Trading 212 to trade. This was outside 
of Trading 212s control.
The investigator had checked Trading 212s terms and the regulators statement and 
concluded that it had not breached its regulatory obligations and its own terms, and it 
did all it could for its clients. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigator. She thought that what Trading 212 had done was 
in its own interests and not in the interests of its customers. It was market manipulation and 
not free and fair trading. Its platform wasnt fit for purpose when the market was volatile, and 
it had clearly taken advantage of the situation. 
Miss Ks comments didnt cause the investigator to change her opinion. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for broadly the same reasons. 
Based on the evidence Im unable to agree with Miss K that Trading 212 acted 
unreasonably. Im satisfied that it behaved fairly and in accordance with its own terms and 
conditions and in line with the regulators statement issued at the time. 
And after consideration, I dont find that Trading 212 acted in a way that was more 
convenient for its own rather than its clients interests, or to its own advantage. Trading 212s 
obligation to act in its clients interest is something Ive taken account of, but my findings are 
going to be about whether Trading 212 treated Miss K fairly in the context of the particular 
orders she is complaining about. Ill explain why.
As a background to the events, during January 2021, and 27/28 January in particular, the 
stock market was extremely volatile in certain stocks including NAKD. The NYSE halted 
trading in NAKD six times on 27/28 January 2021 on the limit up limit down basis in order to 
prevent share price volatility from reaching extreme levels. There had been considerable and 
unprecedented interest generated in several instruments caused by social media platforms 
and, as I understand it, as share prices increased, short sellers had to close their positions in 
order to prevent bigger losses  a so-called short squeeze. Overall, Im satisfied that these 
were volumes and market conditions that were outside of Trading 212s control. 
As such, Ive reviewed Trading 212s share dealing service  terms of business to consider 
how Trading 212 can act when matters are outside of its control and which potentially 
caused system failures. Below are what I consider to be relevant to this complaint, but not 
limited to;
Clause 5.4. We shall not accept Instruction to Deal when: the relevant market is 
closed for trading; or you do not have enough money in your account to execute the 
Transaction; or there are events described as Force Majeure in Clause 25.
Clause 5.12. We shall have the right to introduce new Financial instruments and 
Market Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/ or remove from 
the Trading Platform any Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sole 
discretion.
Clause 10.4. Market conditions can affect the time it takes to execute Limit Orders, 
Stop Orders and Market Best Orders and all orders are executed in due turn. We 
cannot guarantee that a Limit Order or a Stop Order will be executed even if the limit 
or stop price is reached. We do not accept any liability for any actual or potential loss 
you may suffer if there is a delay in execution. Market conditions may result in the 
execution of a Stop Order being at a price above or below the stop price. We may 
also introduce restrictions on a temporary basis regarding a certain type of Order 
(e.g. Limit Order, Stop order and/or Market Best Order) in certain or all Investments.
Clause 10.9. You acknowledge and accept that there may be a delay in the 
execution of an order because all orders are executed strictly by reference to time of 
receipt. In particular, an order received when the relevant exchange is closed or not 
on a Business Day will not be executed until after it next re-opens. We will present 
that Order for execution when the exchange next reopens or, if a large number of 
orders have been received while the market is closed, as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the exchange next re-opens.
Clause 10.13. Neither of us can cancel the execution of an Order if the Order is 
executed at a valid quote price and you have confirmed that you want to buy or 
sell the desired quantity of the relevant Investment.
Clause 10.15. Market conditions can cause temporary delays to the execution of Orders. It is the clients obligation to make sure that any earlier pending Order(s) 
is/are cancelled before placing a new Order in the same Investment. We do not 
accept any liability for any actual or potential loss you may suffer if this occurs.
Clause 25.1. Whilst we endeavour to comply with our obligations in a timely manner, 
we shall incur no liability whatsoever for any partial or full default of our obligations by 
reason of any cause or event beyond our reasonable control, including but not limited 
to any communications, systems or computer failure, market default, suspension, 
failure or closure, or the imposition or change (including a change of interpretation) of 
any law or governmental or regulatory requirement and we shall not be held liable for 
any loss you may incur as a result..
Having reviewed those terms, I dont find that the problems and delays Miss K experienced 
were outside of those terms and conditions. And Miss K agreed to those terms at the outset 
of her relationship with Trading 212. The terms, clause 10.4, makes clear that the execution 
of orders can be subject to delays caused by market conditions. And those market 
conditions were undoubtedly very volatile at the time. When cancelling an order  in this 
case a rebalancing process of the pie  Miss K automatically submitted a request for all her 
filled orders to be cancelled. And it referred to Clause 10.13 of its terms about cancelling the 
execution of an order if that order has already been executed. This suggests to me that if 
Miss K was rebalancing the pie, and not all of the underlying instruments orders had been 
completed, if she then cancelled that rebalancing request any underlying orders that had 
been executed would need to be unwound by further trades. And overall, I think the 
circumstances at the time gave risk to clause 25.1 and the events were beyond Trading 
212s reasonable control. 
I also note that in response to stock market turbulence, on 29 January 2021 the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a statement which said;
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They might withdraw 
their services, in line with customer terms and conditions if, for instance, they 
consider it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and 
therefore more likely to need to take such actions during the periods of abnormally 
high transaction volumes and price volatility.
We will of course take appropriate action wherever we see evidence of firms or 
individuals causing harm to consumers or markets.
Miss K experienced delays and restrictions in her ability to rebalance and trade on her 
account. This must have been frustrating and upsetting for her when not being able to take 
the action she wanted. But I think in reality the main cause was because of the stock market 
turbulence, unprecedented trading volumes and to some extent Trading 212s execution 
intermediarys own ability to trade and in certain cases its execution intermediary restricting 
its access to particular instruments. 
At the time there was unique, unprecedented interest and market activity in certain 
instruments  including NAKD  which caused an extreme strain on the entire trade 
execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading platform.                  
27/28 January 2021 saw record trading volumes in the stock market, so overall, I dont think 
its unreasonable to conclude that these were not normal market conditions, and which 
would impact on a firms ability  including its app facility  to provide its usual services. 
Bearing this in mind, Trading 212 used the services of an execution intermediary and was 
reliant on that service in order for it to trade. It didnt have direct access to the market. And it 
was the execution intermediary that wouldnt allow trading in certain stocks that had been 
subject to extreme volatility until its own capital adequacy and other issues were resolved. Additional collateral was required by the US clearing houses in order to ensure firms had 
sufficient liquidity to settle trades which took place two days after the actual trade date. This 
along with high market volume inevitability impacted on its timing and ability to process 
trades in all areas it traded.
This requirement tallies with Trading 212s comment that the outsized trading volumes in the 
shares generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Trading 212 
has given us a copy of its conversation trail with its execution intermediary which makes 
clear it repeatedly made contact to try and resolve the issues after it was made aware there 
was a problem. And I am satisfied this is an example of Trading 212 taking reasonable steps 
to execute trades and in my opinion, is consistent with its contractual obligations. Trading 
212 was simply unable to trade in certain instruments on its platform and the overall market 
conditions impacted on the timing and execution of trades. 
Miss K has said that Trading 212s platform wasnt fit for purpose during the volatility of the 
stock market. But it was unprecedented, and I think evidenced by the over 20,000 customer 
enquiries Trading 212 said it received as a result. And we know that several of the more 
volatile stocks trading was interrupted on several occasions which would have impacted on 
trading in those instruments. In the particular circumstances here, Im satisfied that the terms 
provided for a situation where Miss K wouldnt always be able to trade or complete orders as 
and when she chose. Given the wider circumstances and the restrictions, on and put in 
place, by Trading 212s execution intermediary and in some instances the NYSE, I dont 
think it would fair and reasonable to say it ought to have executed every trade Miss K 
wanted immediately. Im satisfied it was that volatility that caused the delays and failures and 
not any particular shortcomings with the platform.
And while I accept that Miss K wont be happy with the outcome. I am satisfied that her 
inability to trade as she wanted and the delays she experienced, were outside of the control 
of Trading 212. The unprecedented volatility in the instruments and the impact of that on 
trading was, in my view, one of the vagaries of stock market investment and is one of the 
risks that an investor takes when investing in the stock market. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Trading 212 did all that it reasonably could to mitigate the 
position but the situation was outside of its control, and it probably had very little practical 
choice in and control over the matter, so I dont find that it is responsible for any losses   
Miss K says she incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman