DRN-4443124
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont make any form of refund for a payment made 
on his debit card for a mobility scooter.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr M used his Santander debit card to pay a deposit of £2400 towards the 
total cost of £3600 for a mobility scooter. Within days he felt that this was a scam and 
reported it as such to Santander. He also contacted the merchant to cancel the order for the 
scooter at that time. Santander declined Mr Ms claim that the transaction shouldnt be 
applied to his account because the transaction was properly carried out. So Santander 
raised a chargeback with the merchant who defended the chargeback by providing the 
signed invoice and noting Mr M still had to pay the £1200 outstanding. Mr M never got the 
scooter and never paid the outstanding £1200. So Mr M complained to Santander.
Santander considered Mr Ms complaint. It noted that the bespoke items cannot be 
cancelled box on the signed invoice is ticked. So it concluded that it had been agreed that 
the provision of the scooter couldnt be cancelled. It had raised a chargeback which had 
been defended by the merchant. So it decided continuing with the chargeback process didnt 
have a reasonable prospect of success. So it didnt do so. And it didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint to it about this.
Mr M didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
Ms request for a refund. Mr M didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the merchant, which isnt a financial 
services provider and doesnt fall within my remit.  I can see from Mr Ms representations to 
the Investigator that Mr M is (understandably) focusing on the actions of the merchant. 
However whatever the issues there maybe with the Merchant and just because Mr M feels 
hes lost out, it doesnt necessarily follow that Santander has treated Mr M unfairly. 
Santanders role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place 
as this transaction was on Mr Ms debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Santander can 
only be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not 
Santander has treated Mr M fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. 
This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Mr M accepts the transaction was made on his debit card and doesnt dispute the amount, 
date, or other aspects of the transaction itself. Having looked into the matter Im satisfied the 
transaction was properly authorised by Mr M and correctly applied to his debit card account 
with Santander. 
could Santander challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr M 
does here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Santander couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
The chargeback process is governed by the card scheme which isnt run by Santander and 
is run on an automated coded basis according to standardised types of dispute reasons 
such as transaction not processed or goods/services not as described. It is not designed to 
be a process to solve all types of disputes but rather a straightforward process for card 
providers to challenge transactions through the system provided by the card scheme 
provider and to give merchants opportunity to defend such challenges. Here Mr M has made 
a large number of arguments many of which would be relevant within a legal challenge 
between him and the merchant directly, but most of which are not material to whether 
Santander treated Mr M fairly in its consideration of the response from the merchant and its 
obligations in such matters.
Santander did raise a chargeback in this case which it wasnt obliged to do. So clearly, at 
origin, it supported Mr M in his dispute with the merchant.
The Merchant responded to the chargeback by providing the invoice to the sale and noting 
there was money outstanding. Santander considered this and noted that the bespoke items 
cannot be cancelled box had been ticked and that the document was signed by both parties. 
Mr M says now that the item isnt bespoke as its a standard mobility scooter. There is no 
definition of what constitutes bespoke in the terms and conditions, but they do say that 
orders made for consumer specifications cannot be cancelled. Bearing in mind this box is 
ticked and both parties sign the document, I dont think Santander has treated Mr M unfairly 
by concluding that the non-cancellable nature of the product was agreed at the point of sale. 
And accordingly the sale couldnt be cancelled.
Clearly Mr M disagrees with this and points to various legal arguments around this point 
which are in essence those between him and the merchant. But thats not the test here. The 
test is whether hes been treated fairly by Santander in its consideration of the chargeback 
defence provided by the Merchant. And I dont think Santander has treated him unfairly.
Bearing in mind he sought to cancel the purchase very quickly and that was one of his key 
arguments originally when he went to Santander, I dont think Santander has raised the 
wrong chargeback reason or treated him unfairly by deciding not to take the chargeback 
process further considering the evidence at the time.
Ive considered the temporary refund Mr M received. I can see a letter from Santander which 
makes clear that it is a temporary credit to his account which may be re-debited if the dispute 
is unsuccessful. So I dont think Santander has treated him unfairly in that regard.
Accordingly it is my position that this complaint doesnt succeed. But in the interests of 
completeness Ill address some of Mr Ms arguments.
Mr M asks many questions such as whether Santander investigated the merchants 
background and legitimacy, whether they looked into its commercial practices and whether the text messages Mr M puts forward were adequately considered. It isnt Santanders role 
to do such investigations in a chargeback process. It is to raise a chargeback if it has a 
reasonable prospect of success and to continue with it whilst it has a reasonable prospect of 
success based on the information it has received from the parties. Ive considered the text 
messages and its clear the merchant caveats the refund based on the order being cancelled 
with the factory and or by the accountant. So I dont think the text messages make a material 
difference to the matter here as far as Mr M is concerned. Indeed when considering the text 
messages and Mr Ms comments about discovering that the scooter was available 
elsewhere, cheaper, and sooner (after agreeing to make this purchase) it could be 
concluded that Mr M didnt want to go ahead with the purchase due to concerns regarding its 
price and availability. So Im not persuaded that Mr M has pointed persuasively to things that 
Santander has done wrong. And just because Mr M feels hes lost out here it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Santander should refund him.
Mr M argues that the response of the merchant to the chargeback should be tested because 
thats what happens in a court of law. But chargeback is a voluntary process and banks 
arent obliged to raise chargebacks. And they arent obliged to test the responses of 
merchants either and arent responsible for such responses. So Santander hasnt treated 
him unfairly by not launching an investigation of the magnitude that Mr M suggests is 
warranted.
Mr M says the merchant has broken the law and this service and Santander arent helping. 
However Mr M did tell the merchant not to send the goods and asked for a refund having 
agreed to not being able to cancel the order. Santander looked at the evidence available and 
considered the chargeback no longer had a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think it 
has treated Mr M unfairly by doing so.
Mr M has made many arguments here, many of which dont sufficiently take into account 
what Santanders obligations are here. It considered Mr Ms arguments that the transaction 
wasnt authorised and disagreed. And I can see it raised a chargeback and pursued it fairly.
Mr M says Santander has prevented him from making this a criminal matter. Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence of this. Mr M is and has always been able to take this matter to the 
Police and I can see evidence he did so. And he can always not accept this decision and 
pursue the matter through civil processes in the courts. But clearly such avenues of action 
would be against the merchant in this case, and not Santander.
Mr M has pointed to various rules and regulations about how this scooter was sold. However 
these are in relation to Mr M and the merchant. As Ive described the obligation on 
Santander is to consider the matter fairly through the chargeback process and to consider 
the evidence it was provided with at the time. And Im satisfied it did.
Mr M has made a multitude of arguments about this scooter, and Ive considered them all. 
However Mr M hasnt shown that Santander have led to this loss or treated him unfairly in its 
consideration and management of the chargeback process here. And I remind Mr M that is 
the test here and not whether Mr M has lost out.
I think that Mr M hasnt lost out here due to Santander because I think a chargeback would 
have been successfully defended by the Merchant had it gone to the end of the process 
based on the evidence available during the process. So I dont think Santander treated Mr M 
unfairly by deciding not to continue with the chargeback. So I dont think I can fairly require 
Santander to refund Mr M. So this complaint is unsuccessful.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman