DRN-1070582
 
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Elevate 
Credit International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr B says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Mr B took out 7 loans from Sunny between September 2017 and January 
2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Bs borrowing with Sunny, based on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators has recently re-looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it 
should be upheld. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Bs 
complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr B could 
repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Sunny should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Bs complaint.
Sunny told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr B, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what was 
said, this information showed that Mr B would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to on all 7 occasions. Our most recent adjudicator agreed.
Im afraid I too dont think theres enough evidence to uphold Mr Bs complaint. This is 
because Mr B is represented by a third party company and I note that it hasnt put forward 
much evidence to demonstrate how he was mis-sold any of these loans or specifically why  
or indeed whether - he was finding the repayments difficult. The only comments put forward 
in support of Mr Bs claim seem to me to be somewhat generic and unspecific. 
So Ive looked carefully into his affairs with the information that is available. I can see, for 
example, that Mr B did appear to have a low income and I can certainly accept that on this 
basis, lending to him could have been construed as risky. But I think the repayments on the 
first 3 loans look to be affordable for him, not least because the amounts being borrowed 
were quite moderate. It also seems to me the loan payments were all within Mr Bs capacity 
to repay given what hed declared his income and outgoings to be. 
By the time we get to loan number 4, I note Mr B still had the first 3 loans outstanding and 
even though the amounts were small, thats a matter of concern. Because of this and his low 
income, I think its possible that more thorough financial checks at the point of loan 4 might 
have exposed Mr Bs financial situation more clearly and this may have influenced whether 
further lending was safe. So we asked to see more information from Mr B about his finances 
and any evidence showing that he was finding managing money difficult.
However, we havent received any information back that shows Mr B was in financial trouble 
or was struggling to manage either the payments or his money in general. And even though I 
think Sunny should have looked deeper into his affairs, theres nothing to say that this would 
have changed anything. Based on his self-declared income and expenditure, Ive got nothing 
that shows that loans 4  7 were unaffordable for Mr B. I still think Sunny would have lent to 
him.
In short, whilst I think the checks carried out in this case were initially proportionate, those 
that followed for loans 4  7 probably were not. But Im afraid there isnt enough evidence to 
uphold this complaint because the only submission from Mr B appears to show he could 
afford all the loans he took out. Based on what he said to get the loans, it looked like he had 
enough income and capacity to pay them all back.
Im therefore unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr B any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
 
AppendixLoan Taken Out Repaid Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment 
1 23/09/2017 30/10/2017 £150 £50
2 09/10/2017 25/10/2017 £200 £112
3 14/10/2017 25/11/2017 £50 £128
4 25/10/2017 19/04/2018 £200 £133
5 30/10/2017 18/04/2018 £150 £131
6 30/11/2017 23/01/2018 £50 £131
7 06/01/2018 19/04/2018 £50 £146
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman