DRN-4369827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the amount St Andrews Insurance Plc have paid in
settlement of their claim under their Home Insurance Policy for the repairs and redecoration
of their home following a flood. Theyve also complained about the distress and
inconvenience they experienced by what they consider to be the poor handling of the claim
by St Andrews.
What happened
There was a flood in the basement of Mr and Mrs Gs home in July 2021, which caused
damage to the floors, the bottom of the walls, including the skirting and to some fixtures. It
also caused damage to some of the contents which were in the basement.
Mr and Mrs G claimed under their policy with St Andrews who appointed a company to
organise the drying of the basement and the salvage of damaged contents. They also
appointed a Personal Claim Consultant (the PCC) to manage the claim. And a contractor
(wholl Ill refer to as C) to scope the repair works required and carry them out, as well as
doing the preparation worked required.
The drying process took a considerable period and the dehumidifiers had to be changed at
one point. It was thought the property was dry, but in October 2021 a further reading in the
bathroom (shower room) was taken, which the PCC thought suggested there was an
underlying leak. As a result the PCC decided that the floor tiles in the bathroom needed to
be lifted to check for a leak and to make sure the floor could dry properly.
C arranged for someone to lift the floor tiles in the bathroom and to scrabble the floor in the
hallway. A dispute then arose on the extent of the works required in the bathroom due to the
discovery of an access chamber. In the end a compromise was reached with Mr and Mrs G
agreeing to pay for the sanitary ware to expediate matters and C fitting it and carrying out
the other works required.
However, Mr and Mrs G had lost confidence in C due to the problems theyd had with them
and because of what they considered to be the unreasonable behaviour of their main
representative, which theyve said included him at one point threatening to change the locks
on their home.
In January 2022 Mr and Mrs G emailed the PCC to say they no longer wanted C to carry out
the repair works to their home and that theyd like St Andrews to appoint another contractor
instead. The PCC replied to say St Andrews did not have another contractor they could
appoint and invited Mr and Mrs G to get an estimate from a contractor of their choice.
On 19 May 2022 Mr and Mrs G sent an estimate for the work from their chosen contractor
(wholl Ill refer to as R) of around £39,000, plus VAT and said theyd been scheduled to start
work around the beginning of June. The PCC then spoke with Mrs G on the telephone on
28 May to say shed appointed another contractor (wholl I refer to as T) to provide a scope
of works and cost for carrying them out.
R started work at the beginning of June and Mr and Mrs G chased the PCC regarding
payments they needed to make. On 20 June 2022 the PCC said all St Andrews was willing
to pay was £17,997, based on Ts costings plus a 10% uplift.
Mr and Mrs G complained to St Andrews. They paid £1,300 in compensation for delays that
they said were their fault during the claim. But they wouldnt alter their position on the
amount they were willing to pay for the repairs to Mr and Mrs Gs home. 
So Mr and Mrs G asked us to consider their complaint. One of our investigators did this and 
noted that, while St Andrews had paid the £17,997 plus 10% to Mr and Mrs G, theyd not 
paid the VAT on this or some parking fees that R had incurred and passed on to                 
Mr and Mrs G. She got St Andrews to agree to pay these and gained Mr and Mrs Gs 
permission to just consider whether the cash settlement made by St Andrews for the works 
including VAT was fair and reasonable.
The investigator issued her view, in which she explained that shed expect St Andrews to 
pay Mr and Mrs G what it should have cost to have the works carried out at normal market 
rates. And she went on to explain why she thought what St Andrews had paid was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans
decision. They said that St Andrews settlement was based on the rates their contractor 
would charge them and is not a realistic sum for a contractor to carry out the work at normal 
market rates in the area in which they live.
Having reviewed the complaint, I contacted Mr and Mrs G to clarify some issues with
payments and charges by R. And I issued a provisional decision on 7 September 2023 in 
which I set out what Id provisionally decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy sets out how St Andrews will settle claims as follows:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damaged (using
a suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not more than the cost of completely
rebuilding it in its original form.
We have the option of giving you a money payment instead of repairing or rebuilding your
home. We will either:
 pay the cost of repairing the damage less an allowance for wear and tear; or
 pay the difference between the open market sale value of your home prior to the damage
and its open market sale value after the damage.
We will not make a deduction for wear and tear or depreciation if the buildings are
maintained in a good state of repair.
If it is necessary to repair the buildings we will also pay for:
 Architects, surveyors and legal fees where these are necessarily incurred with our prior
approval.
 Clearing debris, demolishing buildings or making them safe.
 The cost of complying with building regulations, local authority or other statutory
requirements, unless the need to comply with any of them was advised to you before the
insured damage happened or if the requirement relates to undamaged parts of yourbuildings.
Initially St Andrews opted to repair Mr and Mrs Gs home and appointed C to do this. When
Mr and Mrs G said they didnt want C to do it and would like St Andrews to appoint another
contractor, St Andrews said they didnt have another contractor they could appoint and 
opted
to pay Mr and Mrs G the cost of repairing their home. I appreciate St Andrews might think
that because Mr and Mrs G refused to let their contractor complete the repairs they are
entitled to limit the amount they pay to what it would have cost them. However, I do not
consider this would be fair. This is because, based on the notes and email exchanges Ive
seen, I can see why Mr and Mrs G didnt want to allow C to carry out the repairs to their
home and I think their request for a different contractor was reasonable. The PCC said she
couldnt provide another contractor, but that wasnt Mr and Mrs Gs fault. And I think it is of
note that when Mr and Mrs G provided an estimate the PCC was then able to find a new
contractor to provide a scope of works and price it.
I also note that when Mr and Mrs G submitted Rs estimate to the PCC she said she couldnt
approve it and then appointed T to price the work. But she didnt tell Mr and Mrs G not to
allow their contractor to start work until she had approved their estimate. This was despite
the fact Mrs G told the PCC they were going to start work imminently. I realise the PCC had
said in an email a month or so before Mr and Mrs G provided the estimate from R that they
should not allow them to start until she had approved their estimate. But I think she should
have reminded Mr and Mrs G of this when they submitted the estimate and said R were due
to start work shortly. Once R had started it was not possible nor reasonable for Mr and Mrs
G to have to tell them to stop and renegotiate a price with them or find another contractor.
Especially, as at this point it was nearly a year after their home had been damaged.
With this in mind I agree with our investigator that St Andrews should pay Mr and Mrs G
what it would cost to have the work completed at normal market rates for their area and not
at the cost provided by their contractor, plus 10%, which could be nowhere near what it
would cost to have a contractor carry out the works privately at their normal rate.
The problem I have is that  in my opinion - the only evidence I have of what normal market
rates were, is the scope with costs provided by R. St Andrews have not  in my opinion 
provided any compelling evidence to show this cost is too high. All they seem to have
provided is a quotation provided by one of their contractors at the rate they would have
charged St Andrews and uplifted this by 10%. But, as I have already said, they have not
provided anything I consider to be persuasive to show that this amount plus 10% is what it
should have cost Mr and Mrs G to get the work done by a private contractor.
It is now a long time after the work was completed and two years since the damage and I
have nothing from St Andrews that I find persuades me that what Mr and Mrs G paid to R 
for
the insurance works was unreasonable. The only reliable evidence I consider I have of
normal market rates for the repair works required as a result of the flood to Mr and Mrs Gs
home is the spreadsheet (the spreadsheet) theyve provided, which shows what their
contractor charged for the insurance works. And our investigator has sent a copy of this to
St Andrews. This is after all what Mr and Mrs G actually paid a contractor to carry out the
work. So, while it is possible they could have found a contractor to do it for a lower amount,
there is nothing I can see that suggests what they did pay was unreasonable against normal
market rates. The estimate does include painting the ceilings, but I agree with Mr and Mrs G
that this cost should be included, as it seems inappropriate to me to paint the walls of a room
and then just clean the ceiling. And Im persuaded painting them was appropriate based on
Mr and Mrs Gs comment that the contractors they involved suggested this would be the
right thing to do.Mr and Mrs G have also suggested in a recent email to me that St Andrews should also pay
for the sanitaryware in the bathroom, as they only agreed to pay for this to expediate
matters. It seems that the new shower tray was needed because it was not possible to
reinstate the bathroom into a wet room once the floor tiles had been taken up by C due to an
access chamber underneath it with an access point in the room. And the wall mounted toilet
was necessary for the same reason. It was St Andrews decision to take up the tiles when
they had a second reading suggesting that the floor wasnt dry. And I think, having had a dry
reading previously, this was an over-reaction and they should have waited and taken a
further reading, which I think would most likely have shown the floor was dry. This would
have meant the tiles didnt have to be taken up and the sanitary ware in the bathroom would
not have needed replacing. And there would have been no need to put a shower tray in. In
view of this, I think St Andrews should cover the cost of the sanitary ware in the bathroom.
This cost £2,302 in total.
Also, Mr and Mrs G have explained they replaced the wall tiles with ones of better quality.
But the cost of tiles and tiling was not included on the spreadsheet. Theyve suggested a
figure of £513 for tiles and grout, based on tiles at £35-40 per metre squared, plus grout and
sealant, less a 10% discount, which seems reasonable to me. So I am satisfied this amount
needs to be added.
There does however need to be some deductions from the cost shown on the spreadsheet.
£600 needs to be deducted because in the spreadsheet it suggests they paid R £1,200 for
fitting the toilet on the basis it was not supplied. Whereas Mr and Mrs G did in the end supply
this and its cost is included in the amount Ive allowed for sanitary ware. And R only charged
them £600 to fit it. Also, in the original quote for insurance works provided by R only £2,950
was allowed for preliminaries, which it seems is effectively project management. I think an
amount for this was reasonable and I cant really see how Mr and Mrs G could have avoided
this, bearing in mind they had to commit to R and it was part of their costs. But I think £2,550
needs to be deducted to reflect the part of the £5,500 allowed for preliminaries in the
spreadsheet.
Mr and Mrs G have explained that they also paid £2,860 to have their sitting room
redecorated, as it had been used as a temporary kitchen. St Andrews paid £300 for this to
be cleaned, but Mr and Mrs G have explained it couldnt be satisfactorily cleaned, as
cleaning would have just removed the emulsion on the walls. And I agree that a sitting room
used as a kitchen for a long period of time without any real demarcation, would need to be
redecorated to get rid of cooking smells and stains. So I think St Andrews should pay for
this, especially as having a temporary kitchen in this room saved them a considerable
amount in costs for alternative accommodation.
In summary, I think St Andrews needs to reimburse what Mr and Mrs G paid for the
insurance related works in their home as set out in the spreadsheet at a cost of £47,022,
with the adjustments mentioned above. The deductions are £600 for the toilet, £2,550 for
preliminaries not related to insurance work. The additions are £513 for tiles, £2,302 for
sanitary ware and £2,860 for redecoration of the sitting room. This makes a total amount due
to Mr and Mrs G of £49,547 inclusive of VAT. I have checked with them and they have
received £25,362 from St Andrews so far (£20,885 for the works, £300 for cleaning the
sitting room and £4,177 for VAT). This means I think a further £24,185 is due to them in
settlement of their claim as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to their complaint.
I also consider it is fair and reasonable to make St Andrews pay 8% per annum simple
interest on this amount from the date Mr and Mrs G made the last payment to R to the date
of actual payment to compensate them for being without this money. I appreciate
Mr and Mrs G paid some of the amount earlier than this, but I think interest from this point isreasonable in the circumstances. The date of the last payment was 9 September 2022, so
interest should be from this point to the date of actual payment of the additional amount due.
Ive also considered the way St Andrews handled Mr and Mrs Gs claim. And I think it took
them far too long to get it to the point where the repairs could start. And Im also concerned
by what appears to have been quite a confrontational attitude by the main representative of
C. For example, I have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Gs assertion that he threatened to
change the locks on their home at one point. It is always hard to say how long it should take
to settle a claim following a flood in a basement, as the drying process can take time and
drawing up a scope of works is not always straightforward. Also, in Mr and Mrs Gs case, the
period in question was still affected by issues due to COVID-19. However, I think it is clear
errors were made by St Andrews and  in my opinion  the claim took several months 
longer than it should have done to settle. And I think this, combined with what I consider to 
have been an unreasonable approach to settlement by St Andrews and the somewhat
confrontational attitude of their contractor means they should pay more than the £1,300 they
have paid so far in compensation to Mr and Mrs G for distress and inconvenience. And I
consider a payment of £2,000 in total is appropriate. This means St Andrews will need to 
pay Mr and Mrs G a further £700 in compensation.
Ive not considered the cost of parking as Mr and Mrs G have said they are happy with what
B has offered for this.
In summary, I provisionally decided to make St Andrews pay Mr and Mrs G the following:
A further £24,185 in settlement of their claim.
Interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple from 9 September 2022 to the date of
actual payment.
A further £700 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I gave both parties until 21 September 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs G have responded to say that in general they are very satisfied with my 
provisional decision. Theyve pointed out that there was no reference to VAT being added by 
the PCC prior to them asking us to consider their complaint. And T were only ever brought in 
to provide a fresh scope of works. It was never suggested to them that they were available to 
carry out the works; nor, as far as they were concerned, did they price them. 
St Andrews did not provide any further comments or evidence by the deadline I set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs G are very satisfied with my provisional decision and because their further 
comments, although helpful for clarity, do not alter my opinion on the fair and reasonable 
outcome to their complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint and make St Andrews pay them the following:A further £24,185 in settlement of their claim.
Interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple from 9 September 2022 to the date of
actual payment.
A further £700 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and order St Andrews Insurance 
Plc to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman