DRN-3264071
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Debt Managers (Services) Limited pursuing him for a debt which 
was taken out fraudulently in his name.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit agreement which was opened in Mr Ss name, 
then was sold to Debt Managers in 2016.
In 2018, Debt Managers got a county court judgement (CCJ). Mr S discovered what had 
happened, and in 2019 he successfully got the judgement set aside. According to the 
documents, this was done with both partiers agreeing to bear their own costs.
In 2021, Debt Managers sent Mr S correspondence about this debt, and Mr S reminded 
them about the court order. Debt Managers apologised, reassured Mr S that the account had 
now been closed and removed from his credit file, and offered him £250 compensation.
Mr S came to our service. He wanted Debt Managers to refund his legal fees of over £1,800.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that we couldnt overrule what had already been decided in court.
Mr S didnt agree. He raised further points around Debt Managers getting the CCJ, the 
impact of the CCJ, and them not turning up to court later. He reiterated his unhappiness that 
Debt Managers contacted him again about the debt, and said they took too long to deal with 
the matter. He wanted Debt Managers to be better regulated and wanted them to change the 
way they ran their business.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and Debt Managers a provisional decision on 21 December 2021, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I think it would be helpful if I first explained what we can and cant do. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is here to resolve complaints informally. Were not the regulator and 
cannot change the regulations or change the way Debt Managers work across the board. Its 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short) who regulate financial businesses.
Further, we are an informal alternative to the courts, and we cannot overrule what a court 
says. And we cannot generally make decisions about issues that have already been dealt 
with in court.
In addition, we can only look at complaints about regulated activities  such as collecting a 
debt under a credit agreement. But once a business gets a county court judgement, the 
original credit agreement falls away. And instead of the money being due under a credit 
agreement, its then due under the CCJ instead. So in order to recover the money, the 
business is no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement  it can only attempt to 
recover the money by enforcing the court judgement. And enforcing court judgements is not 
a regulated activity.
In practice, what this all means is that I cannot consider Mr Ss complaint points surrounding 
Debt Managers getting the CCJ or the court action that followed. I cannot consider the 
impact of the CCJ, nor his points about Debt Managers not turning up to court, nor the way it 
was set aside, nor the legal costs involved. I know this will come as a disappointment for 
Mr S, but in his case those points are outside of our jurisdiction.
What I can consider is what happened in 2021. It looks like, by that point, the CCJ had been 
set aside and the regulated agreement was effectively reinstated. So Debt Managers were 
then trying to collect a debt under a credit agreement, which is a regulated activity.
I can certainly appreciate why Debt Managers correspondence would have been most 
frustrating for Mr S, given the court action hed already been through. I can see that both 
sides accept Debt Managers got things wrong there. It appears that both sides also accept 
that Debt Managers took longer than they should have to deal with the issue.
But in their final response, Debt Managers admitted they were at fault and apologised. They 
made sure the account was closed and would not affect Mr Ss credit file. And they offered 
him £250 compensation, to acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had. And thats in 
line with what we would have told them to do to put right the mistakes they made in 2021. Its 
worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine or punish businesses.
So while I agree that Debt Managers got things wrong in 2021, and while I understand the 
basis of Mr Ss complaint, I think that Debt Managers have already offered a fair resolution. 
And so I do not plan to award anything further.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
18 January 2022. But neither Mr S nor Debt Managers sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I find that Debt Managers (Services) Limited have already made a fair offer of compensation 
to resolve this complaint, so I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman