DRN-3917048
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the quality of a car she acquired using a finance agreement 
with Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall).
What happened
Your text here
In April 2021, Miss F entered into a finance agreement with Vauxhall, for a car. In May 2022, 
she complained to Vauxhall that there were defects in the paint on the car roof, and provided 
photos. She explained that shed already contacted the dealership, but it had said it couldnt 
help, as the paint issues had been caused by bird lime.
Vauxhall looked into what had happened, but agreed with the dealership that bird lime had 
caused the paint issues, rather than there being a manufacturing defect.
Unhappy with this, Miss F complained to our service. Our investigator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, he was satisfied that there was an inherent defect 
with black wrapping covering the roof of the car. He didnt think it was sufficiently durable, to 
be damaged in the way it had been by bird lime. He also noted that only the roof was 
affected, suggesting a specific issue with that area. Nor did he think it reasonable to say 
Miss F needed to buy a special Safeguard product to prevent the problem.
Vauxhall disagreed. It said the black is not a covering that has been applied to the roof at 
some later point. Rather, the car was manufactured like this, and the colour showing through 
underneath is a primer. Its Vauxhalls view that bird lime has fallen onto the car and been 
left. Due to the acidity, it has eaten away at the paint down to the primer. It said the photos 
clearly demonstrate that the paint has then been scrubbed off. Given the significant amount 
of grit in bird lime, it is recommended to soak the area before attempting to remove it.
Further, Safeguard was offered to Miss F, but she didnt want it. In summary, Vauxhall didnt 
believe the issue was durability. It felt Miss F had caused the damage, by not removing the 
lime in a timely manner.
The complaint was then passed to me.
I didnt agree with our investigators view, so I issued a provisional decision explaining why, 
and giving both parties the opportunity to respond. 
I wasnt satisfied there was an inherent defect/issue with the paint on the roof. I said that bird  
lime is, unfortunately, a known issue. There are products available that are designed to 
minimise the damage. In this case, the documentation showed that Miss F chose not to 
purchase this. But ultimately, the only way fully to prevent bird lime damage, is to remove it 
swiftly, ensuring the area is soaked first. It looked to me, from the photos, as if Miss F had 
scrubbed the affected areas, as there was significant scratching. I didnt agree that paintwork 
can reasonably be expected to be so durable that it can withstand an acidic, gritty substance 
being rubbed into it.
I also thought about why only the roof has been affected. I said it may well be because the 
lime remained on the roof for a longer period, as its an area thats less noticeable.
In response, Vauxhall had nothing further to add.
Miss F disagreed. In summary, this was because:
despite there being bird lime in many areas of the car, only the black paint has been 
affected. The blue paint underneath hasnt been damaged. So clearly theres an 
issue with the black; and
Vauxhall has claimed that the colour underneath the black roof is a primer, but it isnt. 
Rather, its the same blue paint thats on the rest of the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F has made detailed submissions in response to my provisional decision, and I thank 
her for this. I know she feels strongly about whats happened, and I understand why. But 
having considered everything shes said very carefully, Im not upholding her complaint. I 
know this will be very disappointing, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision, focussing 
on what I consider to be the issues that go to the heart of the complaint.
First, I will comment on the issue of whether the blue is a primer, or the same blue as on the 
rest of the car. I dont think it matters. It isnt this which has been affected by the bird lime, so 
I dont think it has any bearing on whats happened to the black layer above. 
I turn now to the black layer. Whether its a wrap, or paintwork applied at manufacture, the 
issue remains the same. And that is, whether it was reasonably durable. I understand that 
the bird lime has only damaged the black on the roof. But I think its likely this was because 
the lime was removed before it could corrode the next layer. And as explained, I think only 
the roof was affected as it was less noticeable, so the lime remained there for longer. Ive 
been most persuaded by the scratch marks around the damage, which indicate the lime has 
been scrubbed/rubbed off. And I dont think the black surface could reasonably be expected 
to be durable enough to stand gritty lime being rubbed off it, without, for example, being 
soaked first. The scratch marks persuade me that, on balance, this is most likely what 
happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman