DRN-4378936
The complaint
Miss O complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly 
increased her credit limit on a credit card she held with it.
What happened
Tesco provided Miss O with a credit card in September 2019 for £1,300. In April 2020, the 
credit limit was increased to £4,000. It was increased again in August 2021 to £6,000. 
Miss O thinks Tesco was irresponsible when it provided her with credit. In summary, she 
says Tesco didnt complete checks in the way it should have. Miss O says she had a history 
of taking out payday loans, bank loans and credit cards. She says she regularly only made 
the minimum payments and had almost maxed out the credit card before the limit was 
increased. Miss O says Tesco also provided her with a loan before the most recent increase 
on the card. And she points out that Tesco allowed her to gamble using the card.
Tesco reviewed Miss Os complaint and, in summary, didnt think it had provided her with 
credit irresponsibly. It pointed out that it had asked Miss O for information about her 
circumstances. And whilst it didnt obtain any evidence of the income stated, there was no 
obligation for it to do so. It also said Miss Os account was maintained well and there were 
no gambling transactions applied to the account. It did notice a number of foreign 
transactions and money transfers, but it was ultimately Miss Os responsibility to decide how 
she transacted on the account.
Unhappy with Tescos response, Miss O brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed matters and didnt recommend that Miss Os complaint be upheld. In 
summary, she thought the checks Tesco carried out were reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances. 
Having reviewed the account statements, our investigator didnt think the activity should 
have led to Tesco declining Miss Os requests for credit limit increases. She noted that 
because the payments were to merchants overseas, it would have been difficult for Tesco to 
automatically identify and prevent these transactions from debiting the card. And, overall, 
she didnt think it could have done anything to prevent these transactions.
Miss O reiterated why she thought Tesco had provided credit to her irresponsibly, but our 
investigator maintained her position. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case came 
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision where I said I was minded to reach different 
conclusions to our investigator. I then said the following:
In more recent correspondence to this service, Miss O confirmed that she is only 
complaining about the credit limit increases provided on the card. Therefore, my decision will 
focus only on whether Tesco was irresponsible when providing Miss O with two credit limit 
increases to £4,000 and £6,000.
The rules and regulations in place at the time Tesco provided Miss O with the credit limit 
increases, required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether 
she could afford to repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused. This means Tesco had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss O. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Tesco to consider the likelihood of it getting the funds 
back  it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent on a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking. Ive kept all of this 
in mind when thinking about whether Tesco did what it needed to before lending to Miss O.
Miss O had already been provided with a facility of £1,300. Around seven months later in 
April 2020, Tesco approved a credit limit increase to £4,000. The information Tesco provided 
suggests it asked Miss O for her income, which when converted to a net monthly income 
was recorded as £1,483 per month. It checked Miss Os credit file and noted she had a 
default recorded 67 months ago. It also noted she had total balances of around £10,300 
made up of loans and revolving credit.
Whilst I appreciate that Tescos checks didnt highlight any obvious signs of difficulties, 
Tesco was now providing Miss O with more than triple the original credit limit it gave her the 
previous year  therefore significantly more than what she had previously been given. And 
just because Miss O was managing to avoid difficulties on the credit Tesco had originally 
provided, this in itself doesnt mean that she could pay a significant amount of additional 
funds.
Ive also considered that whilst Tesco appears to have asked Miss O for her income at the 
point of the increase, it doesnt appear to have verified this information. Whilst I acknowledge 
Tesco says it has no obligation to do so, considering how much it was increasing Miss Os 
access to credit, I think it ought to have gained a better picture of Miss Os overall 
circumstances before agreeing to lend her more money. I say this particularly as it had 
previously estimated that Miss O would have £79 disposable income available at the point it 
was proposing to lend her £1,300 in the first instance. So, given that it was now intending to 
lend her more than triple this, I think it ought to have gathered more information.
Ive reviewed Miss Os current account statements to build a picture of her circumstances at 
the time, and what Tesco likely would have seen had it carried out further checks. Having 
reviewed these, Miss Os income is much less than what was initially declared. In the three 
months leading up to the credit limit increase, Miss Os average income was around £767  
made up of income of £684 and what appears to be a regular child benefit payment of 
around £83.
Miss O also has regular payments coming into the account from another source. When this 
service asked Miss O for further information about these payments, she said these were 
money transfers being made from another credit card she held. Miss O also provided 
information showing the description of these payments on the statements were consistent 
with information about this third-party credit card.
Having thought very carefully about this, I think had Tesco completed further checks into 
Miss Os income, it would have seen that her income was much less than what was declared. Miss O was also effectively creating further debts elsewhere to bring money into 
her current account. And it appears that Miss O was reliant on this to ensure she could keep 
up with her commitments.
Additionally, I can see that Miss O was using her overdraft in the months regularly leading up 
to the increase. I have considered there were some periods of time where Miss Os account 
was in credit for a number of days, usually when shed been paid. But the account then often 
becomes overdrawn again some days later. 
There are also other occasions where the account appears to be in credit for a longer period 
of time  for example, around January 2020. But this is also where Miss O transferred more 
money that month through a money transfer from another credit card. So, whilst she may not 
have been as reliant on her overdraft in that month, that was only because she was instead 
reliant on her other lines of available credit and was effectively creating a debt elsewhere in 
order to bring money into the account.
The statements also show that Miss O was making payments to a number of creditors in the 
months leading up to the credit limit increase, including buy-now-pay-later payments. And, 
notably in January, she made a large payment to a high-cost lender the day after she had 
made a large transfer into her account via money transfer from another credit card.
I have also considered that Miss O appeared to have another account she was making 
transfers to and from. Having reviewed these however, I cant see these evidence any 
additional income stream. Instead, I can see the account was often maintained with a 
relatively low balance, with the exception of instances where, as I understand it, Miss O 
appears to have been sent money by other people. Indeed, Miss O told this service she 
often owed money to others. 
There appears to be another account Miss O held, however she says its an account she 
cant access or retrieve her details for. She says it was an account that was rarely used. 
Having reviewed her available statements, there appears to be only a handful of payments 
to and from that account over the relevant period. However, Im not persuaded I need to 
make a finding on this point. I say this because Im already satisfied that Miss Os other 
statements build enough of a picture to show that she was ultimately reliant on the credit she 
was taking out. So, Im not persuaded that this changes anything. 
Therefore, I think had Tesco carried out further checks, it would have likely concluded that 
Miss O was reliant on other lines of credit, as well as money from others, to keep up with her 
commitments. With this in mind, I think it was irresponsible to provide her with more credit 
and increase her credit limit to £4,000.
Miss Os limit was increased again to £6,000 in August 2021. However, Tesco has said this 
limit only remained for two months before it was reduced again to £3,000, and Miss O didnt 
utilise the further available limit. Therefore, Ive not gone on to consider whether this limit 
was affordable given that Miss O doesnt appear to have used it and therefore hasnt been 
caused detriment as a result of the increase.
Ive also considered that Miss O told this service that at the time she held the card, she was 
gambling in a way that was causing her stress and impacting her finances negatively. Id like 
to thank Miss O for sharing the information she has with us. Its certainly unfortunate that 
Tesco didnt acknowledge the way Miss O was using her card during the period in question. 
That being said, Ive already decided that Tesco shouldnt have provided Miss O with the 
limit increase to £4,000. And as outlined, Miss O didnt utilise the available limit of £6,000 
when that increase was provided. Therefore, Im not persuaded this information changes the 
outcome Ive reached. Ill now move onto considering how Tesco should put things right. I then explained what I thought Tesco needed to do to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O accepted the provisional decision. Tesco didnt respond to the provisional decision, 
or this services subsequent email sent reminding it of the deadline by which it needed to 
respond. So, Ive assumed there isnt anything else Tesco wants me to take into 
consideration.
Given that both parties havent provided any new information to this service, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings that I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold 
this complaint for the reasons outlined above.
Fair compensation  what Tesco should do to put things right 
In most cases where credit has been provided where it shouldnt have been, it would be fair 
and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower. And, 
the borrower would usually be expected to repay any remaining amount of the money they 
had been lent. So, Id expect Miss O to pay back the money she was lent, but not the 
interest.
With this in mind, Tesco should put things right for Miss O by doing the following:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,300.
If the rework results in a credit balance on the account, this should be refunded to 
Miss O along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. And, Tesco should remove any adverse 
information reported to Miss Os credit file about this account after April 2020.
Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance remains, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss O for the remaining amount. Once Miss O has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
April 2020 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off is she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading 
as Tesco Bank to put matters right in the way Ive already outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Hana YousefOmbudsman