DRN-3343854
The complaint
Mrs V, via a representative, complains about the time it took Great Lakes Insurance SE 
(Great Lakes) to reach a decision on the claim she made on her legal expenses insurance 
after she had an accident abroad.
Great Lakes uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance and manage 
claims on its behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as 
including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead, Ill summarise the events and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mrs V had an accident while she was abroad. She raised the matter with Great Lakes 
with the intention of pursuing legal action.
The claim was ultimately declined as Great Lakes would only provide cover where 
there was at least a 51% chance of success and where, in its opinion, the estimated 
amount of compensation would be £1,000 or more per person. Great Lakes said the 
legal opinion referred to a 51% chance of success but that the estimated amount of 
compensation was less than £1,000 after all amounts advanced or paid by it were 
repaid. And the policy also doesnt cover pursuit of a claim against a carrier  as 
would be the case here. 
Mrs V is unhappy that the solicitor took around 11 months to reach this decision. 
Shes also unhappy as she said she was given contradictory information about the 
decision made on the claim, in terms of who had made the decision to decline. 
Great Lakes acknowledges there was a delay and has apologised for this but doesnt 
think it was unreasonable. It also clarified that it sought legal advice and it was 
decided jointly that the claim should be declined. 
Great Lakes has provided a brief chronology of events. This shows that the papers 
were received on 8 November 2019 and Mrs V was advised cover was declined on 
29 June 2020  a period of just under eight months. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She didnt think the delay had been 
unreasonable and so didnt think compensation was warranted. She also felt it had 
been clarified that a joint decision was made to decline the claim. So, in summary, 
she didnt feel that Great Lakes needed to take any further action.
Mrs V disagreed. She didnt think this was a complex case and said that similar 
accidents often occur abroad. She reiterated that she was given contradictory 
information about whether a joint decision was made on her claim, feels the matter 
was deliberately strung out, and wants to know what the solicitors did during the 
period from November 2019 to June 2020. She also said she was stopped from 
pursuing her own claim with the relevant party abroad and lost the opportunity to do 
so. And she doesnt feel there was a thorough investigation of the accident. She feels 
compensation is due for the emotional suffering and permanent damage caused by 
the accident. 
The investigator considered these additional points. While she acknowledged that 
accidents abroad do happen, she noted that it can take more time for an insurer to 
receive information they need to progress a claim when they do. She also 
acknowledged that it took a long time to reach a decision on the claim, but she didnt 
think the delays shown by the chronology were significant enough to award 
compensation. She feels it's been clarified that a joint decision was made to decline 
the claim. And she didnt think further investigation was required on the basis that it 
was already deemed more likely than not to be successful but the compensation 
amount was thought likely to be less than £1000 after costs. While Mrs V said shes 
lost the opportunity to claim independently, the investigator said Great Lakes 
wouldve needed to conduct investigations. And that we wouldnt expect an insurer to 
encourage legal action to be taken through other means when a claim is made to 
them. 
Mrs V still disagreed. She pointed out that the dates 1 August 2020 to 16 October 
2020 had been missed from the timeline of events; said an apology for delays isnt 
compensation, and reiterated that this wasnt a complex case. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- I can see that Great Lakes declined the claim based on the likely compensation, after 
costs, being less than £1,000. The policy documentation makes this clear. Great 
Lakes which is an insurer, not a legal expert, is entitled to rely on the advice of 
suitably qualified legal experts, provided that it isnt obviously wrong. It has sought 
advice and ultimately declined the claim. So, while it appears to have been a joint 
decision between Great Lakes and the legal experts, this is somewhat irrelevant. I 
say this because Great Lakes, as the insurer, ultimately makes the decision  but it 
does so with input from legal experts. Based on what Ive seen, the decision to 
decline doesnt appear to have been unfair, unreasonable or in contradiction to the 
policy terms. 
- The crux of this complaint is about the time it took Great Lakes to notify Mrs V of its 
decision to decline the claim. While Mrs V has referred to a period of August to 
October 2020 which hasnt previously been factored in, I can see that Great Lakes 
notified Mrs V of its decision in June 2020. So, from the evidence provided, the 
timescale in question is between 8 November 2019 and 29 June 2020  just under 
eight months.  
- Looking at the chronology provided, which notes would suggest was also provided to 
Mrs V, there appear to be periods of time where not much happens with the claim. 
So Ive considered these in more detail. 
- It appears that Great Lakes asked Mrs V for further information on 21 November 2019 as it was not entirely clear what had happened in this incident. Mrs V provided 
some information on 5 December 2019 and more provided on 8 January 2020. She 
then called for an update on 25 February 2020, receiving an email response on 4 
March 2020. There doesnt appear to have been any correspondence from Great 
Lakes in this time, which appears to be a delay on its part.
- The chronology states Great Lakes asked for further information in relation to the 
injuries sustained on 4 March 2020 and received a response on 23 April 2020  a 
period of around seven weeks. So, it would seem that Great Lakes wasnt 
responsible for delays during this period.
- Notes on file also suggest there were some delays in correspondence between Great 
Lakes and the intermediaries between 30 April 2020 and 12 June 2020, though I note 
mention of the involvement of a Technical Claims Manager and correspondence with 
Mrs V to confirm whether anyone had admitted fault. So its likely there was some 
delay here too. 
- Given the above, Im satisfied there were some delays caused by Great Lakes. But I 
note that input was required from various parties including Mrs V, legal experts and a 
technical claims manager. Great Lakes has said it had to take into account a number 
of factors including the long-term effects of an injury that may not immediately be 
apparent, costs, evidence, prospects of success, likely compensation and liability. 
So, I dont think the overall time to reach the decision to decline the claim was 
unreasonable. I also note that Great Lakes, within its submissions, referenced Covid-
19 as a contributing factor to the delay in contact as it led to an increase in workload, 
which doesnt seem improbable. 
- Mrs V has pointed out that it took eight months for Great Lakes to ascertain that the 
claim would be against the carrier, with the suggestion that it was very obviously 
about the carrier from the start. And claims against the carrier are excluded from 
cover. But Great Lakes has stated that there was debate around who could be 
considered liable  the carrier (i.e. the vehicle) was one of several options. So I 
maintain that the time taken to reach the decision wasnt unreasonable. And Great 
Lakes reiterated that it declined the claim on the basis of the likely compensation. 
- I note that Mrs V was told in June 2020, in the same email in which the claim was 
declined, On that basis cover cannot be granted. It does not prevent you from 
making a claim yourselves but simply that legal costs will not be funded Any claim 
in [country of accident] ought to be brought within 1 year of an accident  this period 
of time can be extended by consent with the other side Mrs V said she wasnt told 
at the beginning that she could pursue the claim on her own and that it was too tricky 
to put in a formal complaint by the time the claim was declined. But I cant fairly say 
that Mrs V was prevented from pursuing a claim independently as she was notified 
that Great Lakes was declining the claim and was told she wasnt prevented from 
pursuing the claim herself, while she still had time to raise the matter independently. 
- While Mrs V believes compensation is due for the emotional suffering and permanent 
damage, I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to pay this. I say this 
because Great Lakes isnt responsible for the event that led to her pursuing a legal 
expense claim i.e. the accident. And I cant see that Mrs V has lost out by any delays 
caused by Great Lakes which, as mentioned above, I dont find to be unreasonable.
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman