DRN-3353962
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC, saying they should have put him on a 
payment holiday.
What happened
On 3 April 2020, Mr W called Barclays with several queries, one of which was about 
deferring his payments.
The adviser explained that payment holidays were not available at the moment, but would be 
soon on the website. They reiterated there was nothing they could do at the moment to defer 
Mr Ws payments, but he should monitor the website. Mr W was having issues logging into 
his online banking, so the adviser transferred him to a technical team for help with that. 
Before the transfer, they reiterated again that Mr W should keep his eyes on the website as 
thered soon be a form for him to apply for a payment holiday.
Mr W did not then apply for a payment holiday. His statements showed his account falling 
into arrears, and Barclays also sent an arrears notice in May 2020. Mr W said that he didnt 
get the notice, and that he came away from the phone call with the impression that hed 
been put on a payment holiday.
In July 2020, Mr W called to report his card as lost, and says this is when he found out about 
his arrears. He applied for a payment holiday then, but was no longer eligible for one due to 
the arrears. Barclays placed Mr Ws account on hold for two months to give him breathing 
space. They also waived interest for three months, and then refunded further interest of over 
£300 as a goodwill gesture.
As the months went on, no further payments were made to Mr Ws account. Barclays sent a 
default notice, but continued to not receive the required payments. So the account defaulted 
in October 2020.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently 
and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr W and Barclays a provisional decision on 3 February 2022, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr W, I do not currently think his 
complaint should be upheld.
I have listened to a recording of the call involved, and will forward a copy to Mr W. I have 
also issued a provisional decision, rather than a final decision, to give Mr W time to listen to 
the call himself and make any further points if hed like to.
I think Barclays adviser was clear that payment holidays were not available at the moment, 
that they would become available in the coming days, and that Mr W would need to apply for 
one himself online. And they repeated this advice over the course of the call.
I understand that Mr W may have got mixed up, not least given the pandemic situation and 
given that I understand hed applied for payment holidays with other firms. But Im afraid this 
mix up was not due to any error or lack of clarity on Barclays end. Barclays did not tell Mr W 
he was in a payment holiday. They were clear about what hed need to do to apply for one.
Barclays also did not tell Mr W to withhold his April payment, as hes suggested. The adviser 
just said they understood if Mr W couldnt make his payment at the moment, and advised 
him to monitor the website and apply for a payment holiday. 
I understand Mr W feels Barclays may have been at fault as they should have had a 
payment holiday process in place already when he called. But the regulators temporary 
measures for the pandemic were not even in place at that point. I think its reasonable that 
they told him to wait for the applications to open in the coming days.
I also understand Mr W feels Barclays should have told him earlier that things were wrong. 
But aside from giving clear advice over the phone, Barclays did issue statements that clearly 
showed Mr Ws arrears, and they texted him to let him know his statements were available. 
And even if he didnt receive it, I can see that Barclays sent him the notice of arrears as 
required. I think its highly unlikely that the notice and all of Mr Ws statements went missing. 
Mr W also said that he had a business meeting with Barclays where they should have 
mentioned the arrears, but I dont think it would have been appropriate for them to have 
discussed his personal affairs in a meeting about his business. Him and his business were 
separate entities. And again, Barclays had already explained things clearly on the phone and 
then told him about his arrears on multiple statements and on a separate notice.
Mr W argued that Barclays should have put him on a payment holiday from the July, and I do 
understand why he feels they should have. But Im afraid he really was not eligible for one, 
so Barclays decision doesnt seem unreasonable. More importantly, I need to keep the 
timeline in mind. Ill explain below.
In July 2020, Mr W already became four payments behind. And while I accept he thought he 
was on a payment holiday, even if he had been in one it would have ended in the June. 
Mr W said he had payment holidays with other companies at the time. Those companies 
would have already told Mr W that the holidays ended in June and that hed need to contact 
them during June to either resume payments or apply for a second holiday. But I cant see 
that Mr W contacted Barclays in the June to renew the payment holiday he thought he had. 
He only called them in July 2020, and only because hed lost his card. So even if I were to 
treat Mr W as if hed applied for the payment holiday in April 2020, it seems likely he would 
have still fallen behind once it ran out in the June.Then in the July, even once Mr W knew for certain that hed not been in a payment holiday, 
he didnt make any attempt to address those arrears until the October. And in October 2020, 
Mr W only offered either an ultimatum  that hed clear the account only if Barclays removed 
the negative information from his credit file, which they were by no means required to accept 
as that information was correct  or £100 a month, which was a fraction of his minimum 
payment and would have only put the account further into arrears each month, leading to a 
default.
And then in the following months, Mr W continued not to make any payments at all. This is 
particularly important. It means that even if I were to tell Barclays to treat Mr Ws account as 
if it had been in a payment holiday not just from April 2020 but from July 2020 too, it would 
actually leave him worse off now. Thats because his payment holidays would have ended in 
September 2020 at the latest. And Mr W missed so many payments after that that his 
account would still be classed as having defaulted  its just the default would be dated six 
months later. That means the default would be more recent and potentially look worse to 
lenders now, and it also means it would take six months longer to fall off his credit file than it 
currently would.
So aside from the fact that this was not Barclays error, it doesnt seem to make sense for 
me to tell them to put a retrospective payment holiday in place  it would just push Mr Ws 
default date back and leave him in a worse position now.
Again, I do appreciate where Mr W is coming from. But I have not found Barclays to have 
done anything substantially wrong here, and I dont think they need to do anything more. 
Indeed, I think it was good that they gave Mr W some breathing space, waived three months 
worth of interest, and refunded over £300 worth of further interest. I realise that will come as 
little solace to Mr W, but I do need to keep in mind that they were not required to do all that.
Lastly, I understand that Mr W is unhappy with things the debt collection agency has done 
recently. But this complaint is about Barclays actions in 2020, so I cannot consider that 
here. Mr W would need to raise a separate complaint about the debt collection agency. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 March 2022. Barclays didnt add anything new. Mr W replied with some further points, 
which Ill talk about in the section below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I am grateful for Mr Ws detailed testimony and arguments, and for being candid and 
open about his perspective. And I understand that he would like us to continue investigating 
and to gather additional evidence for him. But I should explain that we are independent, and 
dont work for either party. Were also an informal alternative to the courts, and wont 
necessarily go through every argument from each side on a point-by-point basis. Instead, 
Ive focused my decision on what I consider to be the key points, based on what Ive found to 
be the key evidence.For example, I understand Mr W recalls speaking to Barclays for further time back in April 
2020. Hes asked me to listen to that, too. But as far as I can see, those were discussions 
about technical issues with his online banking, not about payment holidays. He discussed 
payment holidays with Barclays in the call I sent him, and was given clear advice.
I also understand Mr W would like me to listen to his call in July 2020, to show he really 
believed he was in a payment holiday. But I already accept that he believed he was in a 
payment holiday. And I appreciate that his mix-up may have been exacerbated by the fact 
that hed discussed payment holidays with other businesses, too. The key point is that this 
was not due to any error or lack of clarity on Barclays part.
Mr W pointed out that when he first called Barclays, he was having trouble accessing his 
online banking, which couldve made it difficult to then apply for a payment holiday. I do 
understand why he brought this up. But Im afraid thats not really relevant in this case. At 
the point Mr W was having trouble with the online banking, payment holidays hadnt opened 
for applications yet anyway. Then by the time they were open, Mr W had already mistakenly 
marked the account as having a payment holiday in his notes, so he didnt ever apply. It 
would be one thing if Mr W had tried to apply for a payment holiday and was prevented due 
to technical issues on Barclays end. But thats not what happened here  the issue is that 
he never applied.
Mr W also said Barclays never told him about his arrears until July 2020. But per the 
provisional decision, Barclays set out his arrears clearly in his regular statements, sent him 
reminders about his statements by text, and sent a separate arrears notice on top in the 
May. And again, they also gave him clear advice on the phone. Barclays did what they were 
supposed to do to make Mr W aware of the situation.
Mr W felt his offer of £100 a month was sufficient to avoid the account defaulting. But Im 
afraid it was not, even though it was all he could afford. By the point Mr W made that offer, 
the interest alone was over £100. The minimum payment was significantly more than that 
still. And in order to avoid a default, Mr W needed to have covered the whole minimum 
payment and paid extra to clear his arrears.  So even if hed paid £100 a month, he still 
would have faced a default. And the fact remains that Mr W actually then continued not to 
pay anything at all. So even if Barclays had backdated a full 6-month payment holiday, or 
even if I told them to do so now, Mr Ws account would still be considered to have defaulted 
 its just the default would be dated 6 months later, which would leave him worse off now.
Similarly, Mr W felt the default could have been avoided if Barclays had put him on a 
payment holiday when hed called in April or July 2020. But as before, payment holidays 
were simply not available yet when he called in the April, Barclays gave him clear advice 
about what to do, and the reason he didnt get one is because he didnt apply for one. Then 
even if Barclays had backdated a payment holiday in the July, and extended it through to the 
September, the fact remains that Mr W missed so many payments from September 2020 
onwards that his account would still be classed as having defaulted. Again, even if I told 
Barclays to backdate a payment holiday now, Mr W would still have a default, and it would 
be dated six months later  which would be worse for him.
So having reconsidered the case, I still cant see that Barclays got anything wrong here  
indeed, they really went beyond what they needed to do by refunding interest and so on. 
Ultimately, it wasnt Barclays fault that Mr W ended up without a payment holiday. And given 
what happened after, even if I put a backdated payment holiday in place now, it would just 
push Mr Ws default date back by six months and leave him worse off.So while I know this really wont be the outcome Mr W was hoping for, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as before, for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman