DRN-3969031
The complaint
Mr V complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited took too long to deal with a third-
party claim under his motor insurance policy 
What happened
Mr Vs daughter was driving his car when it was involved in an accident. His car wasnt 
damaged and so he didnt make a claim, but the third-party did. Mr V said he assumed 
Admiral had dealt with the claim and closed it as he didnt hear any more from them, and it 
was not until about October when he tried to get new insurance elsewhere, that he 
discovered that the claim remained open. 
He said this meant the premiums had increased so much as to be unaffordable for him to 
insure his daughter to drive. This made her getting around inconvenient and expensive for 
her and his family as she had to rely on lifts and taxis. He wanted compensation for that.  
Admiral accepted that they could have acted more quickly to progress the matter at first. 
They showed that in about June theyd written to both the third-party and to Mr V and had 
asked him for some further information, but hadnt followed this up proactively. They offered 
him compensation of £50 for that and some poor communication. But Admiral said that 
because a third party had made the claim, how quickly it progressed wasnt something they 
could control entirely. 
The investigator didnt think that £50 was sufficient compensation. He thought that Admiral 
should increase this to £125 and made recommendations as to how they should keep Mr V 
updated about progress to settle the claim. But the investigator thought that, even if Admiral 
had acted proactively earlier, that didnt mean that Admiral would have been able to close 
the claim before Mr V's policy was due for renewal. So they didnt think that Admiral should 
cover any travel costs.  
Admiral accepted the investigators recommendation to increase the compensation to £125, 
but Mr V didnt agree, and the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V said that the compensation the investigator recommended still didnt reflect what 
Admirals actions had cost him, despite their admission of fault. He felt that it meant that 
insurers were getting away with poor treatment of consumers without sufficient 
repercussions. However, as the investigator explained, we dont have the power to punish or 
fine businesses as we don't monitor or regulate them. Instead we look at individual 
complaints and decide whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably.
Admiral admitted that they should have acted more proactively at the start of the claim, but 
even if they had, I think that doesnt mean that the claim would have been closed before Mr 
Vs policy was due for renewal. It wasnt guaranteed that the claim wouldve settled before 
then. Its not unusual for third party claims to take longer than this to settle and insurers 
arent required to cover all a consumers costs in the meantime. I agree that the speed at 
which the claim progressed wasnt fully within Admirals control and depended on what the 
third party did and when. Admiral had explained this to Mr V and I think that was fair. 
I do see that Mr V is frustrated at the situation, but I think that Admiral havent acted unfairly 
and the amount of compensation the investigator recommended is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr V £125 in compensation to reflect 
his distress and inconvenience. 
Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr V 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
