DRN-3368859
The complaint
Mr B complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA unfairly closed his account and are holding 
on to his funds. He wants the funds returned to him.
What happened
Mr B opened a PayPal account in October 2020. PayPal reviewed the account shortly 
afterwards and prevented Mr B from accessing it. They completed their review and decided 
Mr B fell outside of their risk appetite. At that time, they decided to hold the funds for up to 
180 days to meet potential claims or future liabilities. They then asked Mr B for proof of his 
identity. They reviewed what Mr B sent them and decided they would not return the funds to 
him at all.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. They found PayPal were able to 
close the account and they didnt need to tell him why. They also said PayPal didnt need to 
return the funds to Mr B. 
Mr B asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint has been given to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
PayPal, like most account providers has a broad discretion to decide who they want as a 
customer. I would not generally interfere with their decision to close an account unless their 
reasons were unlawful. But I have looked into PayPals reasons, which they dont need to 
disclose to Mr B, and I understand why they closed his account. I find they closed his 
account in line with the terms he agreed to when applying for the account.
PayPal also has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet. Those 
obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. They can broadly 
be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime.
Its common industry practice for firms to monitor accounts for activity which may fall outside 
their risk appetite, and accounts will often be restricted to prevent potential losses while 
carrying out a review. Firms may also ask for proof of identification as part of their due 
diligence. And, if a firm isnt satisfied by the information they receive, they may decide they 
cannot reasonably return funds to a customer.
I have carefully considered PayPals reasons for not returning the funds to Mr B. I 
understand their concern and find their basis for not returning the funds is reasonable and in 
line with the terms of the account. Its clear to me why PayPal werent satisfied by the 
information Mr B provided to them.
So, I am not going to direct PayPal to return the funds they are holding to Mr B.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman