DRN-4343284
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he switched his account to National Westminster Bank Plc his 
overdraft wasnt transferred. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr M switched his account to NatWest. His previous account had a £100 
overdraft facility, but this wasnt set up on his new account. Mr M says NatWest refused to 
provide the overdraft and said he could apply after a year. Mr M says he applied a couple of 
times online but wasnt accepted due to his credit rating. He says his credit rating was low as 
he had moved and there was an issue with him being put on the electoral register which 
wasnt his fault. He says he has been charged interest for going overdrawn for a short period 
which was what he was trying to avoid. He says the switching process was stressful due to 
issues with his identification documents and he received £150 because of this. 
NatWest issued a final response letter dated 11 April 2023, saying that the adviser would 
liaise with the overdrafts team to request if Mr Ms £100 overdraft could be reinstated and 
noting that Mr M had already received £150 compensation in February 2022 for the issues 
experienced at that time. It then sent a further letter dated 12 April saying it had reviewed 
Mr Ms complaint and that when a customer switches an account lending such as an 
overdraft isnt transferred. It noted the comment Mr M had made about the electoral roll data 
adversely affecting his credit score but said he would need to make a new application for an 
overdraft.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this response and he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He found that NatWest had undertaken checks 
and based on these it made an informed decision not to provide Mr M with an overdraft. He 
noted that Mr M had expected the switching process to result in a like for like switch and as 
such had expected the overdraft to be provided but he found that the information about the 
switching service set out that he would need to agree any overdraft facilities with a new bank 
prior to switching. Based on this our investigator thought that NatWest had followed the 
switch service and applied the relevant terms in response to Mr Ms overdraft request. He 
noted the distress and inconvenience Mr M had experienced and thought the £150 already 
paid was a reasonable resolution for this.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said the compensation previously provided 
was in response to NatWest not being able to open his account online and referring him to a 
branch which then referred him back to needing to open the account online. This was 
resolved but it was very frustrating, and he received £150 because of this. Mr M says when 
he asked about the overdraft he was called by an adviser who said they would allow a £250 
overdraft but the next day he called back to say they had made a mistake and he couldnt 
allow the overdraft. Mr M said his credit score was now excellent and so his overdraft should 
be reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M is upset that when he switched his account to NatWest he wasnt 
provided with the same overdraft facility he had on his previous account. But for me to 
uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that NatWest had done something wrong 
or treated Mr M unfairly.
Mr M has made reference to his disability and the Equality Act. While we take any allegation 
of discrimination seriously, I should first explain that we are an informal dispute resolution 
service, meaning we dont have the power to decide whether or not NatWest is in breach of 
the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do is take 
relevant law and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of a complaint and I have done this in this decision.
I can see from the information provided that Mr M switched his account in February 2022. I 
note his comment about the issues he experienced at that time and the compensation he 
received. This decision is in regard to NatWest not providing him with an overdraft on his 
new account.
I can understand that as Mr M thought the switch would be like for like he was expecting the 
same overdraft facility to be provided on his new account. But as has been explained, when 
switching a bank account, a customer needs to agree any overdraft facilities they require 
before initiating the switch. I have no evidence that Mr M did this and as NatWest has said 
its checks didnt support the overdraft being provided, I do not find I can say NatWest did 
anything wrong by not providing the overdraft with the new account.
Mr M reapplied for an overdraft in March 2023 but his application was declined. NatWest has 
said that Mr M failed its credit scoring. Mr M has explained his circumstance at the time and 
that due to no fault of his own he wasnt on the electoral register. I have considered this 
information, but I would expect NatWest to carry out checks before providing an overdraft 
and as it did this and these didnt support the overdraft being provided, I do not find I can say 
it did anything.
I understand the frustration Mr M will have experienced when he discussed his overdraft 
request in April 2023 with an adviser and he thought this would then be approved. But based 
on the information provided I can see that the letter dated 11 April said that the adviser 
would contact the overdrafts team to see if the overdraft could be reinstated and the next 
day Mr M was told this couldnt happen. I find that NatWest provided a timely response to 
Mr Ms request and while this wasnt the answer he wanted I do not find I can say this means 
he was treated unfairly.
Taking everything into consideration I do not find that I can say NatWest has done anything 
wrong by not providing Mr M with the overdraft he has requested. I note Mr Ms comments 
about his credit score now being excellent. On this basis he may wish to submit another 
application to NatWest for it to assess whether it can provide him with an overdraft facility. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman