DRN-2281688
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc provided him with a credit card with a limit 
which was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr S applied online for a Capital One credit card. His application was 
successful and he was provided with a card with a £2,000 credit limit.
Mr S has explained that he had two other cards at the time, with combined limits of £5,400.  
He wasnt on a large salary, but said in the application that he was earning £25,500 a year.
Mr S fairly quickly used the Capital One card to its credit limit, which was exceeded from 
January 2019. In most months, he was able to make the minimum monthly payments 
required, and in August 2019 he repaid the balance in full (with money from family) and the 
account was closed.
Mr S said that Capital One didnt carry out sufficient checks when he opened the credit card 
account. It shouldnt have lent him as much money as it did. Capital One thought however 
that it had carried out appropriate checks and that it wasnt irresponsible to provide Mr S with 
a credit card or to set the credit limit at £2,000. Mr S didnt agree and referred the matter to 
this service.
One of our investigators considered the case. She thought that Capital One should have 
looked more closely at Mr Ss finances before agreeing to open the credit card account. 
However, she also thought that, had it done so, it would have reached the same decision. 
She didnt recommend that Capital One take any further action. Mr S didnt agree with the 
investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review them.
I did that, but reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator had, albeit for 
slightly different reasons. I issued a provisional decision, and I set out below the text of my 
findings: 
Before agreeing to lend or to provide a credit facility such as a credit card, lenders should
carry out appropriate and proportionate affordability checks. Whats appropriate will vary
from case to case, but the overall aim is to ensure that the borrower will be able to repay any
borrowing without falling into financial difficulties or suffering significant detriment; its not
enough that the lender expects to be repaid.
In the case of a credit card (where agreeing to a credit limit doesnt necessarily mean that
the borrower will borrow that much), the lender should assume that the borrower will draw
down the full amount available at the earliest opportunity and repay it over a reasonable
period. In assessing what a reasonable period is, the lender should consider a typical
repayment period for a loan of that amount; it should also take into account the terms (such
as the interest rate) typically available on such a loan.
Mr S said that his salary was £25,500 and that he was living with his parents. I assume
therefore that he had no or minimal accommodation costs. He later said however that he
was earning rather less than that, and that he was doing temporary work though an agency.
He has however provided evidence that, when he applied for the credit card, he had just
started a permanent job on a salary of £19,500; it was only in the weeks after he entered into
the credit card agreement that he took up temporary employment. Nevertheless, relevant
regulations say that its generally not enough for a lender to rely solely on a customers
statement of their income to demonstrate that it is obvious the customer can afford
repayments. But I dont believe Capital One did that here  it also made checks with credit
reference agencies, for example.
The investigator noted as well that Mr S had taken out a credit card with a limit of £3,000
only very shortly before applying for the Capital One card. This wouldnt have shown on any
credit searches at the time.
I think its apparent therefore that Capital One didnt have the full picture of Mr Ss finances
in this case. In part that was because it wasnt available, but in part too it was because Mr S
exaggerated his income slightly. It seems to be the case too that Mr Ss situation changed
very soon after he took out the credit card.
In all the circumstances, therefore, I believe that the checks Capital One carried out were
appropriate and proportionate. But, even if I took the view  as the investigator did  that it
should have done more, I think it likely that it would have reached broadly the same lending
decision as it did.
Capital One replied to say it had nothing further to add. Neither Mr S nor his representative 
responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision, but 
have nevertheless reviewed Mr Ss complaint fully. Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my view from that set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Capital One (Europe) plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman