DRN-4427330
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs G complain that Vitality Health Limited isnt able to provide them with access 
to all of the services available with their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs G have private medical insurance which they have renewed annually since 
2017. This policy is underwritten by Vitality. One of the features available is access to private 
GP services, via an online app.
In April 2023, Mr F tried to use the virtual GP service, however, he was unable to download 
the app on his mobile phone. Vitality initially told him there was a bug in the system, but he 
was then advised that the problem was that his phone was using an old version of software.
Mr F complained to Vitality. He said he should receive a premium discount as he cant use 
this service. Vitality responded to say that the policy terms confirm that the device needs to 
be Android compatible but that the provider of the service couldnt support older versions of 
Android. Vitality also said the virtual GP service was complimentary to the insurance cover 
purchased and there wasnt an additional fee for this service  so it didnt agree to provide a 
discount.
Mr F and Mrs G remained unhappy with this response, so they brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
the app is provided by a third party and so it wasnt Vitality who were responsible for 
deciding which devices can use the app. As this was a free additional extra on the policy, he 
didnt think Vitality had to do anything more.
Mr F and Mrs G disagreed with our investigator. They said there is no mention on the policy 
that this was a complimentary service. And they felt that Vitality had created the impression 
this service is available for all members. Mr F and Mrs G said that there must be a cost 
saving to Vitality and this should be passed on as a discount to those who cant use the app.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr F and Mrs G. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
This complaint centres around Mr F and Mrs Gs inability to use the virtual GP service 
offered by Vitality for those who take out private medical insurance. The issue being that the 
devices used by Mr F and Mrs G dont meet the compatibility requirements set by the service 
provider for use of the app.
This service is provided to Vitality members through a third party. The third-party provider 
has confirmed that it requires the latest versions of Android to be used as supporting older 
versions can be challenging and can lead to instability. Vitality doesnt own the app and 
therefore doesnt have control over which devices can utilise the service. So, I dont think 
Vitality can be held responsible for Mr F and Mrs G not being able to use the app on their 
particular devices. 
Mr F and Mrs G feel they should be entitled to a discount on their premium as they cannot 
make use of this service. Vitality has confirmed that this is an additional service which is 
complimentary to the private medical insurance provided to their members and that there 
isnt an additional cost for this service  so there isnt a discount that can be applied. 
Ive thought about this point carefully and, while I appreciate Mr F and Mrs Gs frustrations 
with not being able to use the app on their devices, Im not persuaded that Vitality should 
offer any reimbursement of the premium. 
Even though Mr F and Mrs G arent currently able to use this service, this doesnt mean the 
service hasnt been made available to them. If Mr F and Mrs G upgrade their devices to ones 
that are supported by the app, they will be able to utilise this service. And not having access 
to the app wont prevent them from using their private medical insurance policy  cover for 
private treatment is available whether the app is used or not. Although I appreciate that this 
app provides access to GP services in the form of video consultations, this is an additional 
benefit provided by Vitality when you take out private medical insurance through them and 
Vitality has explained theres no extra cost to policyholders for this benefit. So, I dont think 
Vitality has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not offering a discount.
Taken everything into account, I dont require Vitality to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman