DRN-3231980
The complaint
Miss M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined her 
claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M had a home insurance policy with RSA. In October 2020, she said she had an 
accident where she spilled paint on her living room carpet and stairs. So she made a claim 
under the accidental damage section of her policy. 
Miss M told RSA that shed intended to paint the skirting boards on the first floor of her 
home. She said shed opened the paint tin in the kitchen. And that shed carried the open tin 
through towards the stairs. But that one of her cats then ran between her feet and tripped 
her up. She said she fell and dropped the paint tin, which spilled on to the carpet. Miss M 
also said that when the paint spilled, shed rushed around trying to clean it up. And that this 
may have distorted the spill. Shed done this to prevent further damage from her family and 
pets getting paint all over their feet and paws. Miss M said she told RSA the truth about what 
happened. And that it hadnt occurred to her to take pictures at the time the damage 
occurred. 
RSA appointed their agent to visit Miss Ms home to validate the claim. The agent 
highlighted some concerns about the claim during their visit. And they reported that the 
damage didnt appear consistent with Miss Ms explanation of how itd happened. So RSA 
asked another assessor to further investigate. 
The second assessor came to the same conclusion as the first. So they appointed an 
independent forensic expert for their professional opinion. The expert reviewed the claim and 
produced a report that said it was inconsistent with the circumstances Miss M had 
presented. Having reviewed the expert report, the assessor applied the policy fraud 
condition, declined the claim and voided the policy due to misrepresentation.
Miss M complained to RSA. She didnt agree with the assessments. She said shed 
presented her claim truthfully. 
After investigation, RSA issued their final response letter in March 2021. They didnt uphold 
Miss Ms complaint. They felt itd been fair to void the policy. They highlighted the fraud 
condition in Miss Ms policy, noting it was the relevant condition that theyd relied on in 
declining her claim. RSA also confirmed that they would be asking Miss M to refund the cost 
of the forensic report. They acknowledged that Miss M didnt agree with that report. But said 
that as shed not provided any other evidence or suitable explanations for what happened, 
they couldnt challenge that report. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator felt that it should be upheld. Although she felt that RSA had acted fairly when 
theyd declined Miss Ms claim, she didnt think itd been fair to invoke the fraud condition. 
She didnt think RSA had provided enough evidence to show that it was more likely than not 
that Miss M made a fraudulent claim. And therefore she didnt think it was fair of RSA to void 
Miss Ms policy back to October 2020. Or to keep her premium and place her on the fraud 
register database. Our investigator also didnt think it was fair for RSA to ask Miss M to 
repay the cost of the forensic report. So she recommended that RSA should take the 
following actions to put things right:
Refund the premiums paid
Remove internal and external fraud markers
Compensate Miss M for the additional cost of her replacement home insurance policy 
with a different provider
Compensate her £150 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused.
RSA didnt agree. They felt that the expert forensic report had clearly identified a number of 
concerns about the circumstances of the damage. They said that theyd made their decision 
to invoke the fraud condition in Miss Ms policy after reviewing the report from the experts. 
And that they had no reason to disbelieve the experts. They felt that our investigator had 
ignored the expert report in her decision. They also said that Miss M shouldve been able to 
supply a reasonable explanation to counter the expert opinion that the circumstances of the 
incident as shed described were inconsistent with the evidence. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2021. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know this will be very disappointing for Miss M. I 
disagree with our investigator as Im satisfied that RSA have provided enough evidence to 
show its more likely than not that Miss M made a fraudulent claim. Ill explain why.
In declining the claim and cancelling Miss Ms policy, RSA have referred to the policys terms 
and conditions which define fraud. The definition states:
If dishonesty or exaggeration is used by your family or anyone acting on behalf of you and 
your family to obtain:
A claims payment under your policy
Cover for which you do not qualify
Cover at a reduced premium 
All benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to 
a refund of premium and legal action may be taken against you.
Its important to explain that my role isnt to decide whether Miss M acted fraudulently or 
exaggerated her claim. But it is for me to decide if RSAs decision to invoke the fraud 
condition in this case was reasonable, based on the information they had at the time.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed 
the information provided, Im satisfied RSA conducted a fair and reasonable review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud condition was breached  in light of the 
evidence they received. 
RSA said they identified a number of discrepancies and concerns from Miss Ms account of 
what happened, the photographs she provided and inspection reports. 
Ive reviewed all of the evidence, including the video interview Miss M had with RSAs 
second assessor. 
Ive considered RSAs concerns, and whether, given these concerns and the evidence 
received, they came to a fair decision.
RSA said that having reviewed the photographs, they had concerns over the way the paint 
had spilled out of the paint pot. They said it didnt appear consistent with Miss Ms 
explanation. RSA have also provided a report produced by an independent forensic expert 
who carried out tests to try to simulate the accident as Miss M had described. 
The forensic experts report highlighted six different concerns. And said I am unable to 
reconcile the paint damage to the living room carpet and the stairway carpet with the 
account provided by Ms M  I consider that the high number of separate paint deposits, 
their morphologies and positions are entirely inconsistent with the type of deposits that would 
be expected to arise under such circumstances. It goes on to state: In my opinion, the most 
plausible explanation for the paint damage is that it arose because of multiple events or 
movements that caused the deposition of paint. In this regard, numerous deposits would 
appear to have been created by a deliberate back and forth motion. RSA shared this report 
with Miss M and asked her to explain the discrepancies it had identified.
In response to this, Miss M said that shed scraped the paint off the floor. And that this had 
caused the paint to smear and: move in directions that would not have been possible when I 
originally dropped the paint. She also said: The paint damage was not due to separate 
deposits, it was from the tin hitting the floor and rolling, which caused the paint to go in 
different directions. RSA didnt accept this explanation. But said that if Miss M could provide 
a reasonable and credible explanation for the points raised theyd be happy to further review 
her case.
From what Ive seen, Miss M said that her kitten got paint on its paws. And that shed tried to 
clean up the paint with her hands after the tin fell. So this wouldve inevitably caused more 
damage. However, when I consider everything as a whole, there are discrepancies with Miss 
Ms version of events. For example, there are no paint paw prints. And when Miss M 
recreated the spill to show where the paint can fell there is no paint deposit in that area, 
even though she said in her statement that paint ejected from the tin. 
Miss M said shed been nothing but open and honest throughout her claim. She said she 
didnt know how the paint had spilled the way it had. But that shed been truthful about what 
had happened. As I mentioned above, it isnt for me to decide whether this was the case. But 
having reviewed the photographs alongside the evidence from the forensic expert, I consider 
that it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the expert evidence they received and conclude the 
fraud condition of the policy had been breached. 
While there may have been an incident involving paint being spilled, the expert clearly 
suggests the claim was likely to have been fraudulently exaggerated. In these 
circumstances, in line with the policy terms, RSA can refuse an entire claim even if parts of it 
were genuine. They are also entitled to cancel the policy back from the date of the fraudulent 
act and keep the full premium. And they are allowed to reclaim the cost of the forensic 
experts report. I know this will be very disappointing for Miss M. But overall, I dont intend to uphold her 
complaint. Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for RSA to have declined her claim 
and applied the fraud condition to this claim. And I consider that RSA acted fairly when they 
voided Miss Ms policy without returning her premiums. And added her details to the fraud 
register database. I also consider that it was fair for RSA to ask Miss M to reimburse them 
for the cost of the forensic report. And I dont consider that they should pay Miss M any 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Or refund her for the more expensive 
insurance shes had to buy.
Response to my provisional decision
Neither RSA nor Miss M replied to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons described above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman