DRN-2594344
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr R payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly-premium PPI policies taken out to cover a mortgage. The 
first policy started in 2001. The second one started in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sales of the PPI took place approximately 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, very little 
of the original documentation from the time is now available. Also, I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to 
know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these 
difficulties in the evidence. 
Mr R has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. He remembers the adviser putting 
pressure on him to take out contents insurance, telling him his mortgage application would 
be more likely to succeed. Mr R believes that this must have been when the PPI was added 
to his account. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Bank of Scotland prove it didnt do something wrong 
 instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something 
wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. I dont have reliable evidence that 
Bank of Scotland failed to follow the normal practice of giving the customer a true choice 
about taking PPI. 
Ive thought about other ways the PPI might have been sold  but, as Ill explain, I dont think 
these apply. 
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Mr R, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr Rs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr R was eligible for the policy, so would be entitled to make a claim. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr R received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr R would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr R in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr R would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think many people would have found the PPI potentially useful, if they were in Mr Rs 
situation. So a recommendation would have been suitable. It would then be up to Mr R to 
decide whether he wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI 
(assuming he was given a choice about it, which I acknowledge he believes he wasnt).
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr R took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Overall, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman