DRN-4161090
The complaint
Miss M has complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim under a 
home contents policy.
What happened
Miss M had a fire at her home and made a claim under her home contents policy. She 
complained to UKI because she wanted to move to alternative accommodation. UKI said it 
couldnt provide alternative accommodation because it should be provided by her landlord.
So, Miss M complained to UKI. When UKI replied, it said it was only liable for alternative 
accommodation if the property was uninhabitable. However, the property was habitable, so it 
was unable to authorise it.
When Miss M complained to this service, out investigator upheld the complaint. She said the 
evidence suggested there was soot in the property, which particularly affected the lounge 
and kitchen. Miss M had explained that her landlord wasnt able to help her and the UKI 
policy said alternative accommodation would be offered where a property wasnt habitable. 
Our investigator said UKI should pay £300 compensation because it should have offered 
alternative accommodation.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This decision only covers the period up to 27 February 2023, which was the date on which 
UKI issued its response to Miss Ms complaint. I am aware that Miss M is still concerned 
about various aspects of her claim. However, these do not form part of this decision.
The policy said it provided alternative accommodation as part of a claim where the property 
was uninhabitable. In response to her complaint, UKI told Miss M that her home wasnt 
uninhabitable, so it wouldnt provide alternative accommodation. 
UKI told this service that a company that inspected the property said the soot damage was 
very light. Ive looked at the companys report from its visit. This said there was soot damage 
to the kitchen, lounge, hallway, stairs, landing, bathroom and bedroom one and that Apart 
from the lounge and kitchen most area is lightly sooted damage. I think this showed that at 
the time of the assessment various parts of the property were assessed to have light soot 
damage, but this wasnt the case for the lounge and kitchen. The report also listed a range of 
cleaning that needed to be carried out to deal with some of the damage to the property. 
Im aware Miss M and her child had health issues. I think soot damage to the kitchen and 
lounge were likely to impact Miss M and her childs particular health condition, including 
because the soot affected key areas of her home, such as the living room and kitchen. So, 
based on that I think it is more likely than not that the property wasnt habitable around this 
time. 
UKI has also said Miss Ms landlord should have offered her alternative accommodation and 
did so at one point, but Miss M declined it. I havent seen evidence to show that the landlord 
should have done this or that Miss M declined an offer from the landlord. Im aware that, 
even if it was possible, Miss M also had concerns about the type of accommodation the 
landlord might be able to find and that she might be required to pay for it. Looking at the 
policy documents, these also didnt say that UKI would only provide alternative 
accommodation if the landlord wasnt able to do so. So, Im not persuaded that this was a 
reason for UKI not to offer alternative accommodation.
Im aware UKI has also said that it offered alternative accommodation, which Miss M 
declined. It is my understanding that this offer was to stay in a hotel for one weekend at the 
end of the week in which the fire happened. However, it was after this that the condition of 
the property seemed to be assessed in more detail and that the condition of the living room 
and kitchen was noted.  So, I dont think this showed that it was fair not to offer alternative 
accommodation.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think the findings of the inspection combined with Miss 
M and her childs health issues meant that the property was likely not to have been habitable 
at that time. As a result, I think UKI should pay Miss M £300 compensation for the impact on 
her of it not offering alternative accommodation.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Miss M £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss M £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman