DRN-1908552
The complaint
Mr H complains that Caledonian Consumer Finance Limited has treated him unfairly in 
relation to professional skills courses he took finance to pay for.
What happened
Mr H entered an agreement in September 2017 to go on a series of professional skills 
training courses through a marketing company with training college. He paid for these 
courses by entering a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian who paid for the courses 
with the advance from the loan agreement. Mr H agreed to repay the loan through monthly 
repayments. 
Mr H has disabilities which he says impacts his ability to do such courses and he says hes 
not had sufficient assistance for these. He says the courses are very fast paced and latterly 
the courses have required full time attendance which he cant do as he has a job. He says he 
told the representative about his situation when they met in 2017 and hes been mis-sold the 
courses. He wants a full refund from Caledonian.
Mr H complained to Caledonian. Caledonian investigated the matter by liaising with the 
college. Caledonian told Mr H that it didnt feel that it had done anything wrong. It says 
adjustments were made for his disabilities and that he can structure the courses to suit his 
needs and that course segments can be moved to fit Mr Hs diary. It points to the college 
saying Mr H hadnt raised issues with it and that hed been progressing through the courses 
as expected. Mr H didnt agree so he complained here.
The investigator didnt feel any part of the complaint should be upheld. Mr H doesnt agree. 
So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these particular circumstances Mr H can bring a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr H has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can 
complain to the credit provider-here Caledonian.
I have considered the requirements of the legislation and the circumstances here. 
Caledonian doesnt dispute that a section 75 claim can be raised here. As these 
circumstances sit within the financial limits, the appropriate relationship is in place and the 
other requirements have been met, I think this situation can be considered under section 75.
Ive reviewed the agreement and other information provided from when Mr H agreed to go 
on the professional skills course. For this complaint to be upheld I would have to be 
persuaded that either Mr H was materially misrepresented what the course was, and if he 
had been properly informed he wouldnt have entered the agreement. Or Id need to be 
persuaded that the agreement had been breached.
I should add that Mr H has said he was mis-sold the course. However the responsibility for 
the suitability of the course doesnt sit with Caledonian as the course was sold to Mr H by a 
Marketing Company. Caledonian only provided the finance for Mr H to be able to pay for the 
course. So it is only liable under the legislation Ive described.
Ive seen what the course aims to do and what it requires of those attending the course. I 
can see that he took part and progressed with the course for well over a year (nearly two 
years) before he complained. I can also see that Caledonian point to Mr H attaining 
qualifications along the way of the course, has completed a number of weekend training 
modules on site and also a full week of the course on site. It also points to adjustments being 
made for Mr H in relation to his disabilities. It has also pointed to the College saying it was 
unaware of any issue until Mr H raised it with Caledonian and has said Mr H is doing well 
throughout.
I can see the latter part of the course does require more on-site training than earlier parts of 
the course. And its only relatively recently that Mr H has complained. But Caledonian have 
described the on-site training required and the steps Mr H could take to manoeuvre the 
training to better suit his circumstances. I dont consider this to be a full-time course. As 
Caledonian has pointed out it is a course designed and marketed for those who are in full 
time employment to do alongside their employment. And I can see that during the application 
process Mr Hs employment details were collated.
Mr H has latterly made the additional argument that the level three element of the course 
isnt a requirement of going into his chosen profession and this was misrepresented to him. 
But Im not persuaded any of the paperwork from that time says that it is a requirement. And 
Mr H didnt complain about this issue originally regarding the Level three element. His 
complaint originally was more to do with the timings of the course and the amount of it which 
was conducted on-site. And I think it likely that bearing in mind the information provided 
originally and during the time Mr H has had to consider the matter (as well as whilst doing 
the early part of the course) had Mr H wished to not do the Level three course he could have 
raised this much earlier than now. But Ive seen no persuasive evidence of this. I can also 
see in the paperwork completed at the time there were a number of courses to select from 
and this course was selected.
So having considered the issues where Mr H says he was misrepresented, what has 
happened and what Caledonian have said and provided from the time, on balance I dont 
think Mr H was materially misrepresented to when deciding to take the courses he took.
From the evidence it seems clear that Mr H has been provided with the course he was told 
he was going get. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the contract has been breached. 
And it is clear that Mr H has worked his way through the modules for some considerable 
time now and has been successful in doing so. Its also clear that during this time he has 
achieved independent qualifications which enable his chosen career.
I can see significant evidence of adjustments being made by the college to support Mr H. It 
is clear the course can be extended for Mr H if he wishes to accommodate his needs better. 
The College has made clear there is additional support available if Mr H wishes it. So I dont 
think there has been breach or misrepresentation here.
It seems clear that Mr H doesnt feel he needs the final part of the course he originally 
signed up for. But that doesnt mean the contract has been breached or misrepresented to him at the time he took it out. It may be his circumstances or plans have changed. But those 
changes arent the responsibility of Caledonian.
All in all having considered everything Mr H has said I dont think Caledonian has treated Mr 
H unfairly. Im not persuaded the contract has been misrepresented or breached. So, I have 
decided that this complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Caledonian Consumer Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman