DRN-1540561
The complaint
Mrs Cs complained that Metro Bank plc (Metro) havent sorted out issues with their online 
banking, so she cant check the balance on one of her accounts online.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mrs C wanted to open a fixed term savings account with Metro.  Under the 
account terms and conditions, she could only make one payment in at the start of the term.  
And (after a 14 day cooling off period) she couldnt withdraw the money until the fixed term 
ended.
Mrs C paid £27,500 into her account.  She called Metro on the day she did that, because 
shed logged onto her account but couldnt see all the information she expected.  She could 
see the money shed transferred in the Money in column; but, instead of showing a balance 
of £27,500, the balance column was blank.  Metro said this looked like an IT issue and 
offered to have one of their IT staff call Mrs C.
A member of Metros IT staff called Mrs C back the next day.  He asked her to send a 
screenshot so he could see what the problem was; which she did.  When he had this, the 
member of staff escalated the issue because he couldnt resolve it straight away.
Mrs C heard nothing for a month.  But the problem wasnt resolved and, when she logged 
on, she saw the balance column in the account was still blank.  So she called Metro again.  
She was told that IT hadnt been able to sort the problem out, so had escalated it to Metros 
developers.  Mrs C was unhappy that the problem hadnt been sorted out, so Metro logged a 
complaint.
Mrs C then received a letter from Metro.  They apologised for what had happened and 
repeated that the issue had been raised with both IT and the developers.  They also 
confirmed that £27,500 had been deposited in the account, the date that was done, the 
maturity date and the interest rate on the account.  They ended by saying they hoped Mrs C 
was happy with what theyd done to put things right.
But Mrs C wasnt happy, because she still couldnt view the account balance.  Throughout 
that month, she repeatedly contacted Metro to find out how long it would take to sort things 
out.  Metro told her that they didnt know how long it would be, because they couldnt say 
how long the developers would take to identify and sort out the problem with their system.
Mrs C complained again.  In their reply to the complaint, Metro accepted that their service 
had fallen below an acceptable standard.  They confirmed that the IT team were still not able 
to sort out the issue with viewing her balance.  But they said they could have handled her 
calls better and didnt always give her the right information. To compensate her for this, they 
paid £100 into the other account she had with Metro.
In the following months, Mrs C didnt contact Metro, even though the problem continued.  But 
she wanted to make sure she didnt lose her chance to complain to us.  So in January 2020 
she contacted Metro again. They still couldnt tell her when the IT problem would be sorted out, so she complained to us.  She told our investigator that she was worried that she 
wouldnt be able to prove what shed paid into the account if she needed to.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence and decided that Metro didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint.  She said that we cant make Metro sort the IT issue out 
any more quickly; we can only look at whether Metro acted reasonably and tried to reduce 
the impact of the error on Mrs C.  She thought theyd done this, because Metro had 
confirmed how much Mrs C had deposited in the account and had apologised (and paid 
compensation) for their poor customer service. So she wouldnt ask them to do anything 
else.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the investigators conclusion, so Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Cs understandably frustrated by what seems to her to be a simple issue; she cant 
access anything that shows the balance in her fixed term account. When she contacted our 
service, Mrs C said she was worried that the problem could mean she wouldnt be able to 
claim on the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if Metro Bank collapsed.  
She wants me to decide Metro should sort their IT problem out.  But we cant tell Metro how 
they should run their business. And even if I could, Metros already working on the problem; 
my decision wouldnt make them find an answer any more quickly.
What I can look at is whether Metro treated Mrs C fairly in dealing with the problems that 
have arisen by doing what they can to reduce the impact on her.  The issue is a very narrow 
one.  So I need to think about what Metro have done to make sure Mrs C can get information 
about her balance until the problem is fixed.
Ive seen that when they first wrote to Mrs C about her complaint, Metro confirmed the 
amount shed deposited in the account (and other details).  So she had written confirmation 
of what shed done.  Mrs C couldnt check this for herself online, but she couldnt pay in or 
withdraw from the account during the fixed term.  So that information wasnt going to 
change.  Metro didnt send statements during the fixed term.  But they did say that Mrs C 
could contact them by phone to check her balance.  And they confirmed her balance in a 
number of the calls Ive listened to.
So Im satisfied that Mrs C had all the information she would have got online if Metros 
system had worked properly.  And the IT problems have been recorded in the complaint to 
us, as well as with Metro.  I think Mrs C could prove how much shed deposited in the 
account if she ever needed to.
Overall, Im satisfied that Metro have dealt with Mrs C fairly; theyve apologised to her for the 
IT problem and taken steps to get it fixed, even though, unfortunately, thats not happened 
yet.  Theyve confirmed over the phone and in writing that theyre holding her money, and 
the terms theyre holding it on. And theyve reviewed how theyve dealt with her and paid her 
compensation because they decided they could have done that better.  I dont think they 
need to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont require Metro Bank plc to take any further action to 
resolve Mrs Cs complaint. What theyve already done is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman