DRN-1209801
The complaint
Mr L complains that his motor insurance policy has been cancelled by Covea Insurance plc 
without notice. He says Covea has incorrectly recorded the amount of time his car would be 
at his parents address.  
What happened
Mr L usually resides at an armed forces barracks. He gets leave during the month and the 
amount can be random. When on leave Mr L goes to his parents in another city. He applied 
for a new motor insurance policy on-line in February 2019. Mr L was contacted by an 
intermediary acting for the insurer to clarify some information. During that call Mr L clarified 
that his vehicle would be at his parents no more than three times a week. Cover was agreed 
on that basis. 
In April 2019 the intermediary asked for Mr L to call it. The telematics for the insured vehicle 
showed that it was at Mr L's parents address far more than the three nights a month the 
insurance was agreed on. So during the call the intermediary notified him the insurance 
would be cancelled within seven days. This was followed up in writing. 
Mr L complained about the cancellation. The intermediary didn't uphold the complaint as the 
insured vehicle had been kept at his parents for more nights than had been agreed. And it 
couldn't provide a quote for the actual time spent at the higher risk address. Not happy with 
that Mr L asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator concluded the insurer hadn't acted unfairly when cancelling the policy. She 
was satisfied the insurance had been based on the vehicle being at his parents only three 
nights/times month and that cover wouldn't have been provided otherwise. Mr L has asked 
for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as he doesn't believe this is what happened 
and agreed to three times, not three nights. 
When being notified this matter was being referred to an ombudsman, Covea said it had no 
involvement in the cancellation and so any concerns should be against the intermediary. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I find there is little I can 
add to the investigator's findings. 
Firstly, I need to address Covea's points. Covea is the insurer for Mr L's policy. So any 
decision to cancel a policy would be based on Covea's term and conditions and its risk 
criteria. The letter sent to Mr L notified him that the intermediary was acting as Covea's 
agent in relation to the cancellation. Therefore, Covea is responsible for the intermediary's 
actions in this matter.   
It isn't clear if the intermediary had delegated authority to investigate the complaint and issue 
a response. I think it a reasonable assumption it does, given it was acting as its agent in 
relation to  the cancellation. But if I'm wrong about that, Covea was first notified we had this complaint against it in August 2019 and so could have carried out its own investigation had it 
wanted to do so. But it hasn't and it's now appropriate to proceed with this final stage.
I have listened to the call between the intermediary and Mr L. Initially Mr L informed the 
intermediary that he only returned home to his parents once a month. This was clarified as 
one night a month and cover was agreed, but Mr L was to notify them of any changes. Mr L 
then informed them that sometimes he had more leave, and so he might return home more 
often; he questioned whether that was a change. When asked for more information, Mr L 
confirmed he would return home no more than three times a month.   Insurance was agreed 
on that basis. I'm satisfied that when the insurer clarified times to mean night, that that 
understanding was taken forward to the latter three times a month also; particularly as this 
only occurred a few minutes later in the same conversation. 
The telematics data for his vehicle shows that it was kept at his parents address far more 
than that. So Mr L has acted outside the basis of cover. I have also seen evidence to show 
that Covea wouldn't have insured the vehicle at all had it known that at the time Mr L took it 
out. 
I'm satisfied Covea was entitled to cancel the contract of insurance. This is allowed for under 
the terms and conditions of the policy 'When we or your broker may cancel the policy' which 
includes the provision of incorrect information. Covea agreed to provide cover based on Mr 
L's vehicle being at his parents a maximum of three nights/times a month. I'm satisfied 
Covea was induced into providing cover on that basis, and wouldn't have offered cover at all 
for the vehicle being there more often. I'm therefore satisfied Covea was fairly entitled to 
cancel the insurance. 
I'm also satisfied Mr L was notified of this in advance. He was told this in a telephone 
conversation and this was followed by  a written cancellation notice. Covea, therefore didn't 
cancel the policy without prior notification. 
I understand Mr L is in a difficult position. But I find Covea has acted fairly and reasonably, 
so I won't be asking it to take any steps in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman