DRN-2386873
The complaint
Mr T complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim under his 
commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T was involved in an accident with a third party, and he contacted UKI. He provided 
photos of the accident scene and a statement of what happened. Some months later he 
received an email enquiring about an excess payment. He consequently received an email 
stating that he was being held responsible for the accident.
Over the next few months there were numerous conversations and interactions between Mr 
T and UKI. And even though Mr T didnt agree, he says UKI told him the claim was going to 
be settled on a split liability 50/50 basis. However, when the claim finally settled it was on a 
split liability 70/30 basis. 
Mr T was unhappy, and he complained to UKI. UKI maintained its stance on liability, but it 
acknowledged that there had been delays, and some errors were made. So, it upheld the 
complaint in part and paid Mr T £150 in compensation. 
But Mr T remained unhappy, and he complained to our Service. An investigator reviewed 
this complaint and said UKI had the right under the terms and conditions to settle a claim as 
it felt appropriate. But the investigator also said it looked like an error had been made when 
UKI settled the claim on a 70/30 basis. So, the investigator asked UKI to refund a proportion 
of the excess, (£70) and to pay a further £100 in compensation for the poor service it had 
provided. 
However, UKI doesnt agree. It says the liability outcome is correct, and the compensation 
awarded is sufficient. Its asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Liability
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts. 
Instead I look to see that UKI has made a fair and reasonable decision, thats in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
The terms of Mr Ts policy say: we are entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, 
defence or settlement of any claim in your name, or in the name of any other person covered 
by this policy. This allows UKI to take over and settle the claim as it sees fit. This means it 
might make a decision Mr T disagrees with, but the policy allows that.
And from looking at the file I cant see that UKI has done anything wrong by coming to a split 
liability decision. The file contains photographic evidence of the accident scene and damage 
caused, statements from both parties and notes on discussions involving case law and 
cases of similar circumstance. So, I think UKI carried out a reasonable investigation. UKI 
decided that it wouldnt be able to show it was most likely Mr T wasnt at partly at fault if the 
case went to court. From what Ive seen I think the split liability decision was fair and 
reasonable, as its based on the available evidence, as well as UKIs experience of dealing 
with other claims.
How the claim was settled
But a problem has arisen with regard to the proportion of liability assigned to Mr T. From 
what I can see, there were a number of discussions as to what percentage liability was to be 
apportioned to him. And it looks like UKI eventually agreed that 50/50 was fair. But when the 
claim settled, it settled 70/30 with Mr T being apportioned 70% of the blame. 
As I set out above, we are not a court, we dont hear evidence from all parties involved in an 
accident; and we dont decide the extent to which any of them is responsible for causing 
injury or damage. But if we see an error, we would need to deal with and address that error.
In the file notes when UKI sets out its redress rationale and authorisation it says: the 
customer has been told on a number of occasions that we would look to settle on a 50/50 
basis and case law supports this decision, however we settled on a 70/30 basis in favour of 
the third party. The final response says: I feel it should have been settled on a 50/50 basis 
and Im aware you were previously told wed settle the case on this basis, and it wasnt 
done.
So, I had a look back at UKIs notes on the file. And it says: handlers have stated they had 
reviewed the locus of the accident and there were clear markings for the junction where the 
accident happened. This is incorrect as the road the third party was turning into was an 
unmarked country lane. The note goes on further to say The customer has been provided 
incorrect information regarding the settlement and we've not done the right thing by offering 
a 70/30 split to the third party insurer as we may have been able to settle on a 50/50 basis, 
the claim will be classed as fault on the policy regardless, but the customer may have to pay 
slightly more excess. therefore, I have awarded £75 of the redress for this error. I've 
awarded a further £75 for the delays and the poor information. The matter has dragged on 
longer than necessary for the customer and this has added the upset of the situation. I feel 
the redress is fair and reasonable.
So, I can see that UKI has identified an error and its attempted to redress it. But Im inclined 
to agree with the investigators opinion, and I dont think UKI has given Mr T enough 
compensation for its error. Looking back at Mr Ts testimony and the file notes provided by 
UKI, its clear there was conflict between UKI and Mr T. But this wasnt helped by the fact 
that there were a number of errors made, in particular the one where UKI tried to convince 
Mr T there were clear road markings at the junction, and it then turned out that the handler 
was looking at the wrong junction. Further to this Mr T was told the claim would be settled on 
a split liability of 50/50, and this didnt happen. 
For a consumer its about having confidence that your insurer is doing a good job and using 
its experience in getting to the right answer. And given the number of calls here, and the 
nature of the conversation in the notes from both parties, I think Mr T was caused undue 
distress and UKI hasnt provided the service it should. And because of this additional 
compensation is warranted.
I appreciate that Mr T will be disappointed with my decision on liability. He wanted more of his excess refunded and his no claims discount back. But I think UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to its decision on liability, and this means he will correctly have a fault 
claim on his record, which will affect his premiums and his no claims discount. But UKI did 
make an error when investigating the accident, which lead to unnecessary distress and 
aggravation during phone calls and correspondence. And taking both this and the four-
month delay into account the additional compensation as set out in our investigators opinion 
looks fair to me. 
I do note that UKI did break down its original compensation award, and it awarded £75 for 
the difference in excess and £75 for the distress caused. I feel the £75 already offered to 
redress the excess, adequately covers any difference Mr T paid in additional excess. So, 
instead of breaking down the additional compensation award  Im going to ask UKI to pay the 
full amount as set out in our investigators opinion as additional compensation only 
My final decision
My final decision is to partially uphold this complaint.
UK Insurance Limited must do the following;
pay Mr T a further £170 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman