DRN-2414203
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) was irresponsible 
to lend to him.
What happened
Mr M took out his first loan with Likely Loans on 3 June 2018. He initially borrowed £1,200 
and was due to repay £139.16 per month for 12 months. After hed made his first six 
payments, Mr M applied for a £1,300 top-up loan on 11 December 2018. The new 
contractual instalments became £162.91 over 24 months, but Mr M settled the account on 
29 July 2019.
Mr M says that Likely Loans lent to him within ten minutes of applying. He says he had 
a very poor credit rating and Likely Loans didnt carry out any checks. Mr M says he had 
to take out other high interest loans to make the repayments which left him even worse 
off financially.
Likely Loans says it conducted its standard credit checks for both loans as well as 
asking Mr M about his income and expenditure. It said it found no evidence to suggest 
the information provided was incorrect, so could not agree that the loans were granted 
irresponsibly. Likely Loans added that Mr M contacted it in April 2019 to advise that that 
months payment was unaffordable due to an unexpected bill. It said it agreed a 
temporary repayment arrangement which Mr M maintained until he settled the loan in 
July 2019.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that, 
although she was satisfied Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks for the first 
loan, she didnt think that was the case for the top-up loan. However, she couldnt see that 
there was anything in the available information to show better checks would have caused 
Likely Loans to decline the second loan application. So she couldnt conclude Likely Loans 
had done anything wrong.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that his credit score at the time he applied for both 
loans was very poor so, he says, Likely Loans cannot have properly investigated his 
financial circumstances. He said, had it done so, Likely Loans would not have approved the 
lending.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr M and to Likely Loans on 27 October 2020. I summarise 
my findings here:
I was satisfied Likely Loans did enough checks before it approved Mr Ms first loan 
and that there was nothing in the available information that indicated the loan was 
unaffordable;
But I wasnt satisfied that the checks went far enough for Mr Ms second loan 
because:
oThe loan was over a term of 24 months and Likely Loans needed to ensure 
the repayments were sustainable over that period;
oThis was Mr Ms second loan;
oIncluding the repayment of the initial loan, Mr Ms indebtedness had 
increased to over £2,100;
So I considered Likely Loanss checks should have included verification of Mr Ms 
expenses to ensure he would be able to meet his repayments for this additional 
borrowing without experiencing adverse consequences;
I found that a full financial review was likely to have shown that Mr M would have 
been left with around £400 of disposable income per month after making the loan 
repayment of £163;
However, although Mr M wasnt able to provide all the relevant information from his 
bank statements, I could see Mr M had spent over £280 on gambling in fewer than 
four days.
Indeed, there were over 300 account transactions made from mid-October 2018 to 
mid-November 2018 which suggested to me that Mr Ms spending on gambling was 
frequent and took up a significant proportion of his income.
So I considered it was more likely than not, that had Likely Loans carried out proportional 
checks, it would have found Mr M was regularly spending significant amounts on gambling. 
Therefore, I found it was irresponsible for Likely Loans to have approved additional 
borrowing for Mr M as he was unlikely to be able to sustain the monthly repayments for 24 
months.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Likely Loans responded to say it had no further information to submit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as 
Likely Loans) should:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on the top-up loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything already refunded;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Mr M the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the top-up 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely 
Loans must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman