DRN-2618837
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited refused to pay a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
At the time of his claim Soteria operated under a different name. But, as Soteria is the 
correct business for responding to the complaint now, I will refer to it rather than its 
predecessor throughout this decision.
Reference to Soteria includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr W reported his car stolen to police and he claimed on his policy for its loss. Soteria 
appointed agents to investigate the claim. Having done so Soteria said it didn't believe the 
theft had taken place as Mr W had said. So it declined to pay his claim.
Mr W didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. Eventually he said he didn't think Soteria had done anything wrong. Mr W 
didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr Ws policy covers the theft of his car. But in order for Soteria to pay a claim the 
responsibility rests with Mr W to prove that a theft has taken place. In this case Mr Ws 
account is that his car was parked near to his house in the evening. But when he went to 
drive it to work the next day he noticed it was missing. He reported it stolen and claimed on 
his policy.
While Soteria was looking into the claim police recovered the car. Soteria instructed 
independent engineers to examine it. The engineers noted the car had suffered engine 
failure which made it unserviceable and uneconomic to repair. They also noted there was no 
sign of forced entry or tampering with the doors, locks, steering lock, immobiliser or alarm. 
And concluded that the car must have been taken with a key. They said that only three keys, 
which would have been those provided with the car originally, had ever been programmed to 
operate it. They added that the car doesn't have keyless entry and so isn't susceptible to a 
relay attack - whereby an electronic device is used to access and start the car. The 
engineers concluded that the car had been taken with one of its original keys. 
Mr W had given Soteria the only key hed ever had for the car. The engineers tried to 
interrogate the key itself to see if they could retrieve any data from it but it wasn't readable. 
Soteria also approached the police for the evidence they held. The police said Mr W had told 
them that a neighbours CCTV had footage of the theft. They said theyd asked Mr W to 
provide this but he hadnt done so. And Mr W has since confirmed that his neighbour had 
updated his CCTV system and lost the footage. And without that footage the police said they 
had no other lines of enquiry.
So from Soterias perspective on one hand it has Mr Ws account that he woke up to find his 
car stolen. On the other hand it has evidence from engineers who have concluded that the 
car was taken with one of its original keys. And Mr W, who had owned the car for a couple of 
years, had the only remaining original key at the time of the theft. And on that basis, and 
having exhausted all other lines of enquiry, Soteria wasn't convinced that a theft had 
occurred or if it had it wasn't as Mr W described it. I understand Mr W strongly refutes 
Soterias implication that he  or someone with his knowledge and access to his key - took 
the car using the key in his possession. But, given the circumstances of the case and the 
expert evidence provided by the engineers, I think Soterias conclusion, that Mr W hasn't 
shown it's more likely than not that the car wasnt taken using his key, is reasonable. It 
follows that I think its decision not to pay Mr Ws claim is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman