DRN-3952312
The complaint
Mr C says Haven Insurance Company Limited wrongly settled a claim against the insurance 
policy hed taken out with it for his van and provided poor service.  
What happened
Haven was advised by another drivers insurer that Mr Cs van had damaged it in a petrol 
station on 15 December 2021. The other driver said his car was parked at a pump when the 
van was squeezed past it before it was driven off, and that the rear of the van impacted the 
cars front passenger side. The other driver took the vans registration plate number. 
 
When Haven spoke to Mr C he agreed that he was at the scene of the accident and that it 
was tight getting past the other drivers car. But he said his van didnt touch it. Haven asked 
for photos of the van, in order to defend the claim, but as it didnt get them in time, it settled 
the claim. Mr C later sent in some photos, but Haven didnt change its stance. Subsequently, 
it also reviewed CCTV footage from the petrol station. It said the footage didnt show Mr Cs 
van wasnt involved in the incident.
 
Initially Haven told Mr C hed have to pay £500 for not reporting the incident to it within 24 
hours, but it then decided to waive the charge. It said as Mr C was driving a larger vehicle - 
and the damage to the other drivers car was minor - it was possible he didnt realise thered 
been contact between the vehicles. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She thought Haven had acted 
reasonably in terms of making its decision about liability and by waiving the £500 charge. As 
Mr C wasnt happy with her view, the complaint was passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide if a consumer is at fault for an accident. We look at whether the insurer 
dealt with the claim reasonably, taking into account all the available evidence. 
Haven asked Mr C for his account of events. Mr C didnt disagree with most of the version of 
events provided by the other driver  but he disputed that there was contact between the 
vehicles. Haven had evidence of the minor damage caused to the other drivers car, so it 
asked Mr C for photos of his van. Initially, they didnt arrive in the requested time.  A note on 
Havens file says the ones he provided later didnt show the whole van  and photos arent 
always conclusive anyway. Haven then reviewed CCTV coverage, which it didnt think would 
help in defending the claim. Haven wasnt able to give us a copy, but I think if the footage 
had shown clearly that Mr Cs van didnt cause any damage, Haven would have relied on it 
to defend the claim or may not have held Mr C at fault.   
Had Haven decided not to settle the matter, it would have had to be in a position to argue 
successfully in court that (on the balance of probabilities) Mr H didnt cause any damage. 
Insurers dont settle cases unless they have no realistic option, as it isnt in their interests. It 
means paying the other partys repair costs and other expenses. In this case, I think Haven 
made a reasonable decision to settle the claim, having looked at the available evidence.
I appreciate that Mr C genuinely believes his van didnt cause any damage to the other car, 
so he was shocked and upset to be told about the incident - and by the impact of the fault 
claim on his premiums.  Haven accepted that he may not have been aware of what 
happened, given the size of his vehicle (hence it waived the £500 charge). Mr C also says 
theres no damage to his van, but its possible for a vehicle to cause damage without 
sustaining damage itself. So I can see why Haven decided to settle the claim regardless. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr C has been able to show that Haven acted 
unreasonably. Although I know hell be disappointed with my decision, I cant uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman