DRN-3479797
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice True Potential Wealth Management LLP gave to him to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
A law firm replied to our Investigators assessment of Mr Ms complaint on True Potentials 
behalf. But, for simplicity, I will refer to the law firms comments as being True Potentials.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. 
Those gave members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
Mr M approached True Potential for specialist pension transfer advice. The BSPS 
administrators had already given Mr M information about his BSPS entitlement and a quote 
for a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for his DB fund. True Potential obtained a 
transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. It also completed a fact-find with Mr M and an 
assessment of his risk appetite. Amongst other things, it recorded that:
Mr M was 42 years old married to Mrs M, who was 39, with three dependent children 
under 12.
Mr M earned around £50,000 a year, including bonuses. 
Mrs M was working and earning around £15,700 a year. 
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
They had joint net income of £3,516 a month and outgoings of under £2,000 a 
month.
Their home was worth £250,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £105,400, 
repayable at £748 a month. It was scheduled to be repaid by 2031.
Mr and Mrs M had savings of around £6,500 to which they were adding £200 a 
month.
Mr M wanted to retire at age 57 with an income of £2,000 a month.
Mrs M would continue to work for two years after Mr M had retired.
Mrs M has two defined contribution (DC) pensions of her own but Mr M didnt know 
what those were worth.
Mr M had recently started paying into his employers DC scheme. 
He had a balanced attitude to risk.
His DB scheme had a CETV of £374,346
At age 65 the BSPS2 would pay him a full yearly pension of £21,881. Alternatively it 
would pay him a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum of £101,652 and a reduced pension 
of £15,202.
The growth rates required to match those benefits from an alternative pension (the 
critical yields) were 5.73% for a full pension and 5.02% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. 
The PPF would pay him a yearly pension of £19,796 or TFC of 105,063 and a 
reduced pension of £15,764. The critical yields were 5.06% and 4.79% respectively.
At age 57 BSPS2 would entitle him to a full yearly pension of £14,536 or TFC of 
£71,403 and a reduced pension of £10,710. The critical yields were 6.82% and 
5.79% respectively.
The PPF entitlement at age 57 was a full pension of £14,240 or TFC of £79,718 and 
a reduced pension of £11,959. The critical yields were 6.29% and 5.98%. 
On 6 November 2017 True Potential sent Mr M its detailed suitability report setting out its 
analysis and recommendations. Amongst other things it said Mr M:
didnt want the pension fund to die with him and wanted to leave a legacy for his 
family;
wanted flexible access to his fund and control of [his] destiny;
was concerned that BSPS2 might not reflect the true value of his fund and could go 
into the PPF in the future.
True Potential set out Mr Ms entitlements under the BSPS2 and the PPF. it recommended 
that Mr M should transfer his DB funds to a named SIPP. It said he could meet all the critical 
yields, save for the yield of 6.82% for a full pension at age 57 by doing so. It summarised its 
analysis saying that transferring would allow Mr M to meet his objectives including:
To provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.
To provide sufficient death benefits.
To enable Mr M to retain the value of his accrued fund.
Mr M accepted True Potentials recommendation and transferred his DB scheme benefits to 
the named SIPP. True Potential didnt apply an initial charge for making the transfer. The 
SIPP would charge Mr M 1.28% of his fund value for its services. True Potential would also 
charge Mr M 0.75% for its optional ongoing advice service.
 
Mr M complained to True Potential in 2021. He was concerned that its advice to transfer out 
of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for him. True Potential provided a comprehensive reply. It 
didnt uphold his complaint. In brief it said its recommendation allowed Mr M to meet his 
objectives.Mr M referred his complaint to our service. In March 2022 one of our investigators 
recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In short, given Mr Ms time horizon to 
retirement and the possibility he would be worse off by transferring, our Investigator didnt 
believe True Potentials advice was suitable for Mr M. The Investigator thought Mr M would 
have opted into the BSPS2 if True Potential had given suitable advice. He recommended 
True Potential should calculate if Mr M was owed compensation, including £400 to address 
his distress and inconvenience arising from the unsuitable advice. 
In a lengthy response True Potential disagreed with our Investigators complaint 
assessment. Amongst other things it said it wasnt required to guarantee or ensure, 
particularly with the benefit of hindsight, that the transfer would prove to be suitable for Mr M. 
Instead it was required to exercise due skill and care to allow Mr M to make an informed 
decision, and to take reasonable steps to satisfy itself its advice was suitable. It said it 
believed it had done so. 
True Potential also said it couldnt have advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2 as at that time it 
hadn't been established. It said if Mr M had opted in to the BSPS2, and it didnt go ahead, 
his BSPS pension funds would have moved into the PPF. 
True Potential added that the Investigator had placed too much weight on the comparison 
between critical yields and discount rates (which I explain below). It said it wasnt required to 
consider discount rates. And, given that Mr M didnt want to take an annuity, critical yields 
were of limited relevance. It also said it had given Mr M appropriate risk warnings involved 
with a transfer. It understood Mr M had made a fully informed decision to do so. 
It added that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had reviewed some of its 
advice files and hadn't found any issues with those.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
In January 2023 True Potential said that, while it didnt agree it had done anything wrong, in 
an effort to settle the complaint it was prepared to make a redress calculation. Mr M provided 
a letter of authority for True Potential to calculate any loss using the existing FCA method for 
doing so. On 30 March 2023 True Potential offered to settle Mr Ms complaint for a sum of 
£9,984.
Mr M didnt accept True Potentials offer and has continued to correspond with us 
concerning the appropriate methods to calculate redress and the dates he feels is applicable 
for that. We have responded to that correspondence separately. And, as the parties dont 
agree that the matter is resolved the complaints been passed to me to make a final 
determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in replying to it Mr M and True Potential have made a number 
of detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
points at the heart of Mr Ms complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
True Potentials said that COBS 9 required it to use reasonable skill and care to ensure that 
Mr M had enough information to make an informed decision. Also to take reasonable steps 
to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr M without ensuring that it would prove suitable. But, 
while I agree True Potential was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
personal recommendation to Mr M was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1), additional regulations 
also apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. In particular advising firms are 
required to start with an assumption that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable (COBS 
19.1.6). So, True Potential should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate it was in Mr Ms best interests. Having looked at all the evidence available, Im 
not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Uncertainty around the future of the BSPS or the BSPS2
The BSPS closed in March 2017 and at the time Mr M approached True Potential the 
situation had been evolving for some months. There was some widespread concern about 
what moving pensions to the PPF meant for BSPS members. Its also well-known that this 
was a period of uncertainty for people in Mr Ms situation. But this only serves to emphasise 
the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the 
need for suitable advice. So in order to recommend that Mr M should transfer out of his DB 
scheme True Potential needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in his 
best interests.
I dont dispute that when Mr M approached True Potential there was still the possibility that 
his pension could move to the PPF. In response to our Investigators assessment of the 
complaint True Potential has argued that the BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. But I think 
True Potential has changed its position on that point. It's notable that True Potentials TVAS 
and suitability report make appropriate comparisons between Mr Ms likely pension 
entitlement from the BSPS2 and his likely income from a SIPP. So I think True Potential, at 
the time of its advice, most likely felt the BSPS2 would be going ahead.Further, some months earlier, in May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA 
had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Mr Ms employer would set up and sponsor 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. The 
Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. And the confirmation that Mr Ms 
employer had made the required payment for it to go ahead was announced on 
11 September 2017. And by the time that True Potential made its final recommendation, in 
November 2017, the BSPS trustees had provided details of the BSPS2 to scheme members 
in its time to choose information. And, as I've already said, True Potentials suitability report 
refers to Mr Ms entitlement from the BSPS2. So, as I've said above, at that time, it appears 
True Potential believed it was more likely than not that BSPS2 would go ahead. 
It follows that, while entry into the PPF was still a possibility, I think this was unlikely to be 
Mr Ms only option. Further, even if Mr M remained concerned about the possibility, even if it 
was a slim one, of the BSPS2 not happening or itself moving into the PPF at a later date, I 
think True Potential could have addressed that concern. 
A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. While I understand that the 
prospect of pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting, its 
probably the case that it wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it to 
be. And I think its likely, as I explain below, that Mr M could have met his needs in 
retirement and retained guaranteed benefits if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had 
to move his pension to the PPF. 
So, I'm not persuaded the uncertainty Mr M experienced when he entered into the advice 
process was sufficient reason for True Potential to recommend he should transfer his 
safeguarded benefits from a DB scheme, even one with the possibility of going into the PPF. 
Thats because to do so would unnecessarily expose those funds to the volatilities and risks 
of the investment markets. It follows that I dont think those concerns should have been a 
significant driver in True Potential recommending Mr M transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Financial viability 
True Potential carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). 
True Potential said the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth 
required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity. It said Mr M didnt want an 
annuity, he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required True Potential to 
consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I 
do think it is a relevant consideration here. Thats particularly the case as I dont think Mr M 
could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 14 full years. So, its 
entirely possible he would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he 
could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
True Potential provided Mr M advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a 
discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. We find it a 
useful tool to establish whether an investment is likely to match or exceed the required 
growth rates to make a DB transfer financially viable. Prior to October 2017 this Service published similar rates on our website. I acknowledge that 
True Potential was under no obligation to refer to discount rates when giving advice. But it 
was free to do so. And under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the 
benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension 
by using reasonable assumptions. I think the discount rates provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
So those would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption by which to compare the benefits 
likely to be paid under a personal pension with those payable under a DB scheme.
Mr M was 42 at the time of the advice and his preference was to retire at 57. The schemes 
normal retirement age was 65. I've set out the applicable critical yields in the table below. 
Age 57 Age 65
Scheme Full pension TFC and 
reduced 
pension Full pension TFC and 
reduced 
pension 
BSPS2 5.73% 5.02% 6.82% 5.79%
PPF 5.06% 4.79% 6.29% 5.98%
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by this Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.2% for 14 full 
years to retirement at age 57. That rose to 4.5% per year for 22 full years to retirement at 65. 
Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 
2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 
5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The discount rate falls short of the 
critical yields required to match the benefits from either the BSPS2 or the PPF. The 
regulators mid-level projection rate is broadly equivalent to some of the critical yields but is 
lower than others. So, depending on which scheme he'd have gone into and how he took his 
pension, there was some potential for Mr M to match the benefits available from a DB 
environment by transferring. Although, given that most of the critical yields were higher than 
the discount rates and the regulators mid-level projection rate that seems unlikely.
But there would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his 
DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
here, given the lowest critical yield was 4.79% and the highest 6.82%, I think Mr M was likely 
to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with his balanced attitude to risk. 
True Potential said its calculations show that if Mr M were to take equivalent funds by 
drawdown from his SIPP as his entitlement from the DB scheme, then the SIPP funds would 
last him well beyond his life expectancy. But, as I've said above, there would be little point in 
Mr M putting his funds at risk only to match the benefits available under the scheme. Also 
True Potential's models are reliant on Mr Ms investments increasing at a rate of 5% a year 
every year. But that is anything but guaranteed and transferring meant putting his funds at 
risk when he had no need to do so. 
Further if his investments experienced an extended period of poor performance or suffered 
losses then Mr M could deplete his fund sooner than True Potentials models show. Also, as 
True Potential will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. So I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time. So I think Mr M was likely to be worse off in retirement by 
transferring. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below. When doing so I've been mindful that 
True Potentials role was to find out what Mr Ms wants and needs were and why. Its role 
wasnt simply to do what Mr M wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his 
motives for doing so, in order to ensure its recommendation was in his best interests.
 
Flexibility and income needs
True Potential said that transferring out of the DB scheme would allow Mr M to retire at age 
57. However, it's not entirely clear how True Potential has arrived at all of its figures. For 
example it said that Mr M would require an income in retirement (based on todays rates) of 
£2,000 a month. That appears to be a figure Mr M estimated he and his wife would need. 
But, that figure was around the same as Mr Ms current monthly outgoings. And, by the time 
he retired he would have paid off his mortgage, which was then £748 a month. Its also likely 
that his children might not have been financially dependent upon him by then. But it's not 
clear if True Potential brought that to his attention when assessing his retirement income 
needs.
Also it seems that Mr M could, most likely, have met his income requirement in early 
retirement by taking benefits from the BSPS2 or PPF. For example, at age 57, the BSPS2 
would pay Mr M either a full pension of £14,536 or TFC of £71,403 and a reduced pension of 
£10,710. His initial income from the PPF would have been broadly similar, although slightly 
higher if he took TFC. Either income stream falls somewhat below Mr Ms estimated income 
requirement of £2,000 a month or £24,000 a year. But Mrs M intended to continue working 
for a further two years after Mr M retired. So her salary would have presumably made up the 
majority of their income requirement at that time. However, assuming she retired once she 
turned 60 (when Mr M was 62) they would need to make up the income until Mr Ms state 
pension became payable at age 67. 
Its notable that Mr M had another potential income source that True Potential didnt explicitly 
refer to in its suitability report. Mr M had started paying into his employers DC scheme that 
year. I think it's reasonable to assume he could have anticipated continuing to contribute to 
that policy (or a similar one if he was to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of his 
working life. True Potential didn't record exactly how much he was paying into his DC 
pension. But, from experience, I know many of Mr Ms colleagues  along with their 
employer  were contributing to their DC pensions at a combined rate of 16% of their salary 
a year. Assuming Mr Ms contributions were at a similar level, and without factoring in Mr Ms 
salary increasing, him improving his contributions or allowing for any investment growth, the 
fund could be worth around £120,000 by the time he reached 57. Mr M could then have used 
those funds to increase his income to meet his needs until his state pension became 
payable. In other words he didnt need to transfer his safeguarded benefits out of the DB 
scheme and put his pension funds at risk in order to take early retirement.
Further, I can fully understand Mr Ms wish to retire early. I think most people would say they 
would like to retire early if given the chance. But for the majority, early retirement means a 
significant drop in income. That would dramatically reduce most individuals spending power 
and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, most 
choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working to support their current and future 
lifestyle options. I also think, generally, people will understand that having the opportunity to 
retire early isn't worth compromising their income security for across the remainder of their life. It seems to me that this is something Mr M was likely to reassess once he reached or 
neared age 57. And as such, I think early retirement was something that he aspired to, 
rather than a definite plan. In other words it was something that would be nice to have rather 
than a genuine need for Mr M. But theres no evidence that True Potential seriously 
challenged Mr Ms objective of retirement at age 57 and questioned how realistic that was for 
him. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of what he would 
be giving up.
At the time of True Potentials advice Mr M was still 14 full years away from 57. So he had 
no need to make an urgent decision to transfer out of his DB scheme as he could have 
opted to move into the BSPS2. Having done so, if he still felt he wanted to retire when he 
reached 57, and thought that the income from the BSPS2 wasnt enough for his needs, he 
could have considered transferring his DB benefits to another scheme at that point. But that 
wasnt a decision he needed to make when he was still only 42 years old. But it doesn't 
appear that True Potential put that option to him.
True Potential also said the CETV had been enhanced and was unlikely to be matched from 
the BSPS2 in the future. One of the key differences between the BSPS2 and its predecessor 
was that the indexation levels weren't as generous in the BSPS2. And that lower indexation 
might well have led, in real terms, to a reduced CETV at a later date than that offered at the 
time of the advice. But I don't think the prospect of a lower CETV at some point in the future 
was reason to give up DB benefits at the time that True Potential gave its advice. As by 
doing so Mr M would be taking a risk with his pension he didnt need to take. 
That said, its true to say that Mr M couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take his 
BSPS2 (or PPF) benefits early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take 
that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the SIPP 
would allow Mr M to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have 
been an attractive prospect to him it wasnt his only access to flexible income. As I've 
indicated above Mr M could have taken funds from his DC scheme in a flexible manner. And, 
if he wanted to he could have taken an income from that while leaving his DB funds 
untouched. So he didnt need to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to have some flexible 
access to funds. 
It follows that Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. So, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer his pension just to 
have flexibility that he didnt need.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. Thats because whatever was left 
within it at the date of his death would be passed on to his family. If that happened before his 
retirement or soon after, then that would likely be a significant sum. In contrast the BSPS2 or 
PPF would pay Mrs M half of Mr Ms yearly pension after he died. And that pension would 
die with her. So Mrs M couldnt leave it as a legacy for their children if she died.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB funds to a SIPP because of this, the priority 
here was for True Potential to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement rather than for a legacy to 
family. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr M was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his family that they may not receive or need for many years to come. And by that time, 
the fund could have been depleted by Mr Ms withdrawals from it in the meantime.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and had children. Both the BSPS2 and the PPF would have paid Mrs M 50% of 
Mr Ms yearly pension on his death. Although the BSPS2 was more generous as it didnt 
make a spouses benefit deduction for any TFC taken. Also, if Mr M was unfortunate enough 
to die while his children were still in full-time education, then the two schemes would also 
pay a dependents pension. These were guaranteed and escalated they were not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. And there 
may not have been a large sum left in the SIPP if Mr M lived a long life or his fund don't 
perform as projected. In any event, True Potential should not have encouraged Mr M to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a SIPP over his security in 
retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr M had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. 
But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
True Potential should have instead explored life insurance. Ive noted that, when it ran 
through the fact-find with him, Mr M said he had no interest in life insurance. So, it seems 
that leaving a legacy for his family in the event of his death wasnt a prime objective for him. 
Instead it was simply a benefit of transferring his pension. And, rather than dismissing this 
out of hand I think the starting point ought to have been for True Potential to ask Mr M how 
much he would ideally like to leave to his family. It could then have explored that on a whole 
of life or term assurance basis. That could have, potentially, allowed Mr M to leave a 
sustainable legacy for his family while preserving his safeguarded pension benefits. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
The FCAs review, 
True Potential told us the FCA had reviewed a number of its files where it had given advice 
in similar circumstances to Mr Ms. It said the FCA didnt find it had done anything wrong. I 
wasnt party to what the FCA reviewed or what it found, nor do I need to be. Our function 
isn't a regulatory one. And while I'm required to consider the regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, my role is to decide whether True Potential has acted fairly and reasonably in all 
the specific circumstances of this complaint not simply to look at what the FCA did. So the 
FCAs file review of other cases isnt relevant to that consideration. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a SIPP 
would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But True Potential wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
True Potential was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised 
Mr M about what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension 
pots like Mr Ms DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme funds to a SIPP. I appreciate the BSPS2 hadnt been established when True Potential gave its advice. But I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. And, I think it would have 
been in Mr Ms best interests to have opted into BSPS2 as that had more generous benefits 
than the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr M would have kept the option to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if that was what he decided to do at that point. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice True Potential gave to Mr M to transfer was suitable. He 
was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a SIPP Mr M was unnecessarily putting his pension funds at risk. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
SIPP when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would have gone ahead with the transfer 
anyway if it wasnt for True Potentials advice. And, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not 
persuaded he would have done so. Thats because Mr Ms BSPS pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision at the time. So, if True Potential had given clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded Mr Ms concerns about the future of the DB scheme was so great 
that he would have gone against True Potentials advice. Thats because True Potential had 
the opportunity to clearly explain that the scheme trustees and his employer were not one 
and the same. Also that the future of the pension scheme was in the process of being taken 
out of the employers hands. So True Potential could have allayed Mr Ms concerns about 
the uncertainty of the scheme. And I don't think those would have been sufficient reasons for 
Mr M to insist on a transfer.
It follows that I don't think True Potentials advice to Mr M to transfer out of his DB scheme 
was suitable for him. And I think it should have advised him to opt into the BSPS2 instead. 
So, I think True Potential should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, in line with the 
regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And, as 
learning that he has unnecessarily put his retirement income at risk, has been a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Mr M, I think True Potential should pay him £400 to address 
that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for True Potential to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the DB scheme and opted into the BSPS2 if True Potential had 
given suitable advice. 
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
I'm aware Mr M doesn't believe it is fair for True Potential to use this updated redress 
method, which will also use the assumptions that apply at the time of the calculation as set 
out by the FCA. Thats because Mr M thinks True Potential should calculate any loss at the 
date our Investigator first recommended the complaint be upheld. But as my colleagues 
have previously explained to Mr M, our Investigators recommendation was not a final 
decision but a proposed resolution, which both parties had the opportunity to disagree with. So it wasnt binding on True Potential or Mr M. And True Potential chose to challenge that 
assessment using our long established procedures. Thats something it was allowed to do 
and doesn't mean it was acting in an underhand manner.
It follows that I think its reasonable for True Potential to use the most up-to-date method of 
calculation. Thats particularly the case as the regulator believes that is a fair way to make a 
redress calculation. And I agree thats reasonable.
Further the regulators guidance when calculating redress in cases like this is that the firm 
must use the regulators most recent assumptions at the date of calculation. So thats what I 
think True Potential should do now. 
When making the calculation True Potential (or providers acting for it) should use the FCAs 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator 
output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, True Potential should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his SIPP or personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts True Potentials offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, True Potential may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
True Potential should also pay Mr M £400 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience arising from its unsuitable advice. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman