DRN-3453258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim theyve 
made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
This complaint has been brought by Mr H on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him 
throughout. References to Mr H and AXA include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been documented by 
our Investigator so Ill provide a summary here.
Mr H has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by AXA.
In 2019, he made a claim for cracking in the property after a storm. Following 
investigation, subsidence was diagnosed. Repairs were undertaken to drainage 
pipes.
After this, remedial work commenced, with strip out works in the kitchen. These 
halted as AXAs contractors said the damage to the kitchen roof was worse than 
expected and likely wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr H said the work the contractors had started - but not finished - left the kitchen in a 
poor condition and resulted in external draught entering the kitchen and a 
consequent increase in heating bills.
Following some back and forth, the problem with the kitchen roof was initially 
diagnosed as roof spread but following a site visit by AXAs surveyor this was 
discounted. Repairs to the toilet, kitchen ceiling and some external doors were 
recommended but repairs to the main house were declined as AXA said the damage 
wasnt subsidence related.
Mr H appointed his own expert. Their report concluded there was evidence of recent 
structural movement  to the rear wing of the property and to internal first floor 
positions. It said a full invasive survey should be undertaken to assess the ground 
impacted by the drain failure following which a schedule of work could be prepared.
AXA initially issued a final response in December 2021 apologising for its contractors 
saying the roof damage wasnt covered. It didnt think the work undertaken led to the 
kitchen being draughty but agreed to repair the damage to stop the draught. It also 
agreed to undertake further investigations into whether the drain damage had 
affected the main property. It offered £600 compensation for the things it got wrong.
Subsequent to this AXA accepted its contractors had led the kitchen to be more 
draughty and dusty and it increased its compensation to £1,400. It additionally 
agreed to revisit the subject of Mr Hs experts fee for the survey once the further 
investigations were complete. And offered, on receipt of evidence, to review the 
increased heating costs.
Mr H remained unhappy and raised his complaint with this Service. Our Investigator 
didnt uphold it and said she considered the £1,400 offered by AXA to be fair and 
reasonable.
Mr H disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim at the heart of this complaint is still ongoing. This decision focuses on AXAs 
actions up to the point it issued its final decision in February 2022. I wont be considering or 
making findings on anything that happened subsequently in this decision. 
The claim
Incidences of subsidence are, by their nature, stressful and frustrating for homeowners to 
deal with and claims relating to them are often time consuming. I cant hold an insurer 
responsible for this but I can consider the impact of any failings or delays in the way the 
claim was handled.
AXA acknowledged its contractors wrongly told Mr H the damage to the kitchen roof wasnt 
covered. This led to them leaving remedial work started but not finished which meant the 
kitchen was unnecessarily left in a state of disrepair. And Mr H says it caused an increase in 
draughts and dust in the kitchen.
Initially AXA denied its contractors were responsible for this but after further enquiry, it 
eventually acknowledged its contractors hadnt provided full details and were in fact 
responsible. AXAs confirmed it will ensure repairs are undertaken to ensure the kitchen is 
weatherproof again and I think this is a reasonable approach. 
Having carefully considered the photographic evidence supplied by Mr H, I understand why 
living with the kitchen in this state would have been inconvenient and distressing, particularly 
as it went on for approximately a year before AXA admitted its failing. I also acknowledge Mr 
H says his wife experiences a medical condition which is made worse by these conditions.
There was disagreement about whether the main part of the house was affected by 
subsidence  AXAs surveyor said it didnt think it was but Mr H disagreed and said there 
was evidence of subsidence related damage present. But I dont think it was unreasonable 
AXA initially relied on its surveyors opinion in the absence of any opposing professional 
evidence to suggest an alternative outcome.
Mr H arranged his own survey that didnt reach a definitive conclusion on this aspect of the 
claim but said further investigations should be undertaken. I can see there were some 
internal discussions within AXA to decide the best way forward after receipt of this report. 
Some two months later, AXA confirmed further investigations would be undertaken and I 
think this is an appropriate course of action but I think it could have reached this conclusion 
quicker than it did.
Given that this claim is still ongoing, I would expect AXA to undertake the investigations at 
pace and ensure its agents provide better service than they have done up to now. Ill take 
this opportunity to remind AXA of its responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide Mr H with appropriate information on the progress of the claim. 
Having taken everything into account and for the reasons Ive explained above, I think AXA 
let Mr H down and should have handled things better than it did. Ive thought very carefully 
about this and I have concluded the £1,400 AXA has paid to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Increased heating costs
Having accepted its agents directly caused an increase in draughts in the kitchen AXA has 
said it will consider any increased heating costs Mr H experienced because of this, on 
receipt of evidence to support his claim. I think this is a fair approach in the circumstances 
and Id expect AXA to consider any reasonable evidence Mr H supplies even if its not in 
paper form. 
Surveyors fee
AXA has confirmed it will revisit the issue of the fee charged by Mr Hs expert in undertaking 
the visit and providing a report once the outcome of the further investigations is known. I 
consider this to be fair and in line with this Services general expectations. 
Subsequent issues
Mr H has since been back in contact as he says some of the things AXA has promised to do 
have not been addressed. He also wants a new specialist appointed to manage the claim 
and the works, having lost faith in AXAs currently appointed agent. 
While I acknowledge this may be frustrating for Mr H, as our Investigator explained, these 
new concerns will need to be addressed by AXA first. If having done this, Mr H remains 
unhappy with its response he can ask this Service to consider a new complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman