DRN-2485737
The complaint
Mr Cs complained about how Goodwin Barrett Ltd pursued a claim on his behalf relating to 
investment advice  and about the fees they charged him.
What happened
In summer 2020, Mr C replied to an online advert from Goodwin Barrett.  He provided 
contact details and Goodwin Barrett called him to discuss whether he had a claim theyd be 
able to help him with.
During their first conversation, Goodwin Barrett told Mr C they thought he may have a claim 
against his bank.  They explained to him they operated on a success fee basis  so if Mr C 
didnt recover any money he wouldnt be charged.  But if he did receive an award, Goodwin 
Barrett would charge him a fee of 40% plus VAT (a total of 48%) of that amount.  
Following the call, Goodwin Barrett sent Mr C their terms and conditions and letter of 
authority, which Mr C signed and returned.
A couple of weeks later, an adviser from Goodwin Barrett contacted Mr C and took details of 
the circumstances in which hed invested and submitted a claim to his bank.  About three 
weeks after that, Mr Cs bank wrote to him, telling him theyd decided the investment advice 
hed been given was inappropriate  and theyd be paying him £8,464.74.  Shortly after this, 
Goodwin Barrett wrote to Mr C, sending him an invoice for their fees.
Mr C complained to Goodwin Barrett.  He said hed not been told there would be a fee of 
48%.  And he told Goodwin Barrett he felt theyd taken advantage of his health conditions.  
He said his claim was settled because hed spoken to the bank himself  and Goodwin 
Barrett hadnt helped him when hed asked them to.
Goodwin Barrett considered Mr Cs complaint and wrote to him setting out their findings.  
They said theyd explained their fees to Mr C, and hed signed their terms and conditions 
accepting them.  And they said they werent aware of his health conditions until he 
mentioned them to the staff member who completed his claim  when theyd included them 
to build his case with the bank.
Goodwin Barrett said that Mr C had called them for advice after hed been contacted direct 
by his bank.  Theyd not been able to take his call immediately, so they told him theyd 
contact him within 72 hours.  They returned his call and advised him just under 24 hours 
later.
Although Goodwin Barrett didnt agree theyd contributed to Mr Cs health issues, they 
recognised that he was suffering, and agreed to reduce their fee from 40% plus VAT to 35% 
plus VAT  which equated to a reduction of £507.89.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
looked into his complaint but didnt think that Goodwin Barrett needed to do any more to 
address it.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.  I know hell be disappointed by my 
decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
I can see Mr Cs been upset by this matter.  Im sorry about that.  My role is to decide if 
Goodwin Barrett caused that by doing something wrong.  And  if they did  whether they 
should pay Mr C any more compensation than theyve paid already.
Its clear that Mr C feels his health issues contributed to the difficulties he had in dealing with 
this matter, and that Goodwin Barrett should have taken these into account when they dealt 
with him.  I think thats reasonable  if they were aware of them.  Ive seen that Goodwin 
Barrett have in place guidance for their staff on how to identify if a client needs additional 
support.
Ive carefully considered what happened during Mr Cs case.  Ive seen that he replied to an 
advert placed by Goodwin Barrett and provided his contact details for him to contact them.  
So Im satisfied Mr C wasnt put under pressure to instruct Goodwin Barrett by, for example, 
receiving repeated cold calls.
Ive listened to the calls from before Mr C signed Goodwin Barretts terms and conditions.  
Mr C didnt tell Goodwin Barrett about his conditions at that time.  He explained the 
circumstances around his investments and answered their questions clearly.  Nothing I 
heard has made think the staff dealing with those calls should have identified Mr C as 
needing additional support.  So I dont think its reasonable to say that, during those calls, 
Goodwin Barrett should have treated him differently from any other potential client.
It was during those calls that Goodwin Barrett told Mr C what their fees would be if they 
made a successful claim for him.  And they told him he could make a claim himself, for free, 
if he preferred.  Mr C asked Goodwin Barrett to deal with the claim for him.  So Goodwin 
Barrett sent him their terms and conditions and asked him to sign and return them  which 
Mr C did.
Im satisfied from this that Goodwin Barrett made details of their fees clear to Mr C  and he 
accepted them.  Ive not seen anything which suggests that Mr C was pressured to sign.
Mr C shared details of his health conditions with Goodwin Barrett when they called him 
about two weeks later to get details of his claim.  Im satisfied that, from that time on, 
Goodwin Barrett shouldve taken his conditions into account in how they dealt with Mr C.
Between that call and receiving his settlement, Mr C only contacted Goodwin Barrett for 
advice once.  No-one could help him when he called, but he was promised a call back within 
72 hours.  Goodwin Barrett actually called him back just under 24 hours later.
Ive listened to the call.  Its clear Mr C was anxious because the bank was calling him 
repeatedly and he didnt want to jeopardise his claim by saying the wrong thing.  The staff 
member he spoke to gave no indication that they were aware of his condition  nor did they 
try to provide any sort of reassurance to Mr C.Ive thought about this.  I understand Mr Cs concern and why he wanted Goodwin Barretts 
support.  I can see it would have been helpful to him if he could have talked to someone 
immediately and that he was worried until he spoke to an adviser the following day.
But I dont think this means Mr C shouldnt have to pay any of Goodwin Barretts fee.  
Goodwin Barrett did submit a claim for him.  Ive seen correspondence from the bank which 
shows they relied on the information from Goodwin Barrett when they decided to pay Mr C 
£8,464.74.  That means Goodwin Barrett are entitled to charge their fee of 40% plus VAT.  
Goodwin Barrett have reduced that to 35% plus VAT as a gesture of goodwill  which 
equates to a reduction in the fee of £507.89.  I think thats enough to compensate Mr C for 
the anxiety he suffered when he couldnt speak to someone immediately when he called.  So 
Im not going to decide Goodwin Barrett should do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Goodwin Barrett 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman