DRN-1107950
The complaint
Mr P complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled his car repair claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ps car was hit in the rear by another car. He said that afterwards his car was shaking 
violently, the engine wouldnt start, and the car had to be recovered.
Avivas approved repairer looked at the car and Aviva also had it inspected by a 
manufacturer garage. Avivas engineers thought that the engine might need to be replaced 
because the car had a problem with its timing. I wont repeat the details here because both 
Mr P and Aviva know them. Aviva said that this problem wasnt caused by the accident 
because the car had only minimal rear impact damage so it couldnt have been hit with 
enough force to cause that problem, and it was more likely to have been wear and tear. 
Avivas engineer explained this to Mr P. 
Aviva wouldnt pay for his cars engine to be fixed, but instead paid him a cash settlement in 
lieu of repairing the damage to the rear of his car. Mr P was unhappy with this and that Aviva 
returned his car without putting the engine back together. Mr P wanted his car back in the 
same condition as before the accident. He felt that because his car was driveable before the 
accident and wasnt after the accident, the accident must have caused it. But Aviva said that 
his car could still be driveable with a timing problem and that didnt mean the accident 
caused it. They said they hadnt rebuilt the engine as hed have to pay again to re-strip it. But 
they did accept that thered been delays in processing his claim and they hadnt kept him 
informed and they awarded him £200 compensation.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Aviva had acted fairly and had done enough. But she said that if Mr P could get a report 
saying that that his cars problem was due to accident damage, he could ask Aviva to look at 
it again. She also thought that it wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances for Aviva to leave 
the engine as it was, and I agree with that, because it did need further work.
Mr P got a report from another garage. The garage said that, from the 10% of the timing they 
could see, there was no issue with the timing. But they would need to do more work to his 
car to look at it fully to confirm as there could be a problem which was out of sight. They 
thought his cars problem might be a fuel pump issue but again they couldnt make a 
diagnosis without seeing more by doing more work.
Mr P felt that Aviva had wrongly diagnosed the problem and he wanted Aviva to take his car 
back and check it properly. But as the investigator explained to Mr P, although his garages 
report introduced another option, it still didnt confirm what the cars problem was and it didnt 
say that the accident caused that problem. So this didnt take Mr P any further.
The investigator suggested that Mr P pay for his cars engine to be rebuilt during which his 
garage could check the fuel pump and confirm if that was the problem and if it was caused 
by the accident. Mr P could then send the garages report to Aviva to see if it made any 
difference. But Mr P didnt obtain a further report.
Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car could be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence and 
whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Aviva had Mr Ps car looked at by their approved repairer and a manufacture garage and 
their engineers considered the cause of the problem, and I think that theyre entitled to rely 
on that. Mr P provided a garage report but, as I explain above, it still didnt prove what his 
cars problem was, or that it had been caused by the accident. The garage said theyd need 
to do more work to try to establish that. 
I do think that its very unfortunate that Mr Ps car was in the accident and hes had this 
experience through no fault of his own. But as the investigator explained, its up to the 
parties to provide the evidence in support of their claims. Mr P hasnt provided independent 
evidence of his cars problem or that it was caused by the accident, so I cant hold Aviva 
responsible for that problem. And so I dont think that it was unfair for Aviva to decide as they 
did and I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
