DRN-1718977
 
complaint
Mrs H says Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out over the telephone to be used alongside an 
existing mortgage. The PPI was sold in 2003. It gave Mrs H accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover and she paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs H disagreed and so this 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I have seen the mortgage application form from 2002 in which Mrs H ticked a box not to 
have the PPI. As a consequence PPI was not added to Mrs Hs account. Yorkshire says that 
it sold the PPI over the telephone when Mrs H responded to a mailing. I can see that 
Yorkshire sent Mrs H a welcome letter after the sale confirming the sale to Mrs H. And I can 
see that Mrs H had the mortgage for over a year before she agreed to the PPI. So, having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that 
Yorkshire wouldve made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it, even if she cant remember that now.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. Its possible that the information Yorkshire gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
couldve been. But considering her circumstances at the time of the sale, I dont think that 
clearer information about the policy would have led Mrs H to make a different decision. 
I say this because Mrs H was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions from or limitations to the cover the policy offered. 
And having thought about the circumstances of Mrs H at the time, I think she could have 
found the policy useful. Mrs H told us she had good sick pay initially, but that it dropped 
significantly after six months, such that she may have needed to rely on her family or her 
partner for help in meeting her mortgage payments. This policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months if Mrs H was too ill to work, it would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay 
she had, and the policy would have reduced Mrs Hs reliance on whatever support her family or partner may have been able to provide her. And the PPI would have provided some 
financial protection to Mrs H in the event she lost her job. 
So thinking about this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think the policy could have been useful for Mrs H if something went 
wrong. And so I dont think that better information about the policy would have changed the 
mind of Mrs H about taking out PPI.
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator in their assessment letter, and set out above, I do not think the policy was 
mis-sold. 
my final decision
I think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Yorkshire 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman