DRN-3240119
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Mr P paid a monthly fee for this account, which 
came with a number of benefits. 
Mr P has also complained that he tried to cancel his URCA but was told that if he did so he 
would have to pay a daily fee if he used his overdraft facility.
What happened
Halifax objected to us looking into the sale of this account as it believed that the complaint 
was raised too late. But it did not object to us looking at the downgrade issues. A decision 
was issued by an ombudsman agreeing that the complaint about the sale of the URCA was 
made too late.
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps complaint about the downgrade. They concluded that 
Halifax had not done anything wrong in relation to this, as the information that Mr P says he 
was told was correct. Mr P did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint. 
I know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr P, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong. I know this isnt the outcome that 
he was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand how I have 
come to this conclusion.
Mr P says he contacted Halifax and during this call he asked about cancelling his URCA. He 
says he was told that if he did so, he would be charged a daily fee to use his overdraft. 
There is no record of this phone call, but if that is what he was told then I cant see that 
Halifax has done anything wrong. To explain, one of the benefits that the URCA came with 
was that the daily fee for using an overdraft was not charged. So, the information that he 
was told seems to be correct.
Mr P is adamant that we should listen to the call between him and Halifax. Firstly, as stated 
above, Halifax has said that it does not have any records of this call. Secondly, from what  
Mr P himself has told us about the call, he seems to have been told the correct information 
by Halifax.
I note that Mr P has mentioned that he wasnt previously charged for this overdraft when he 
held a fee-free account. I can confirm though that Halifax changed how it charges its 
customers when they use their overdraft. From 2009 Halifax have charged a daily overdraft 
fee on fee-free accounts. I understand that Mr P may not think that it is fair that if he had 
cancelled his URCA he would pay a daily overdraft fee, but that is the charging structure that 
Halifax has chosen to apply to its accounts and is not something that I can comment on.
Overall and based on the evidence I have been provided with, I cant say Halifax did 
anything wrong in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman