DRN-1501708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that they were mis-sold an interest-only mortgage. The 
complaint has been brought against Kensington Mortgages Limited (Kensington), which is 
the business which now owns and administers the mortgage.
What happened
In July 2006 Mr and Mrs T took out an interest-only mortgage, arranged through a broker on 
a non-advised basis (which was permitted by mortgage regulation at the time). The original 
lender was Money Partners Limited (Money Partners), and the terms and conditions of the 
loan provided that the loan could be transferred to Kensington after completion, which is 
what happened.
Mr and Mrs T borrowed a total of £318,489 (including fees) over a term of 25 years on an 
interest-only basis. The mortgage was originally on a discounted rate of interest for the first 
24 months, following which it reverted to a variable rate of interest.
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs T complained to Kensington. They said that the mortgage had 
been mis-sold, because they had no repayment vehicle and the mortgage extended beyond 
retirement age. Mr and Mrs T said no affordability assessment had been carried. out. 
Mr and Mrs T also thought theyd been mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) and 
that a high level of commission was linked to sales of PPI. Mr and Mrs T said that, because 
the mortgage had been transferred to Kensington on completion, it was responsible for the 
sale of the mortgage.
Kensington didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that the mortgage had been repaid in 
September 2008, more than six years before the complaint was first raised in August 2019. 
Kensington thought that Mr and Mrs T had left it too late to complain. But Kensington also 
said that there was no record of any PPI with this loan and that the original application form 
shows that the section on PPI had been crossed through. Kensington also explained that it 
wasnt responsible for the sale of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an 
investigator looked at it. The investigator was satisfied that the loan had not been sold by 
Kensington and so he wasnt able to uphold the complaint.
Mr T, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is Mr Ts belief that Kensington is responsible for the sale of the 
mortgage because of its links with Money Partners.
The sale was carried out through a broker and the loan agreement was with Money 
Partners. But the loan agreement and covering correspondence say that the loan was likely 
to be transferred to Kensington. That in fact happened  on the day of completion in July 
2006.
Im aware that Money Partners and Kensington were closely associated. According to the 
trade press when Money Partners was established, it was done so to enable Kensington to 
acquire loans through a different brand. The immediate transfer of loans to Kensington was 
the business model both companies operated by. But I understand that this was 
discretionary, and it was up to Kensington to choose which loans to take on. It chose to take 
Mr and Mrs Ts loan.
Im satisfied Kensington wasnt responsible for the underwriting or the lending decision. It 
wasnt party to the transaction until after completion. But the loan was granted by a company 
established to acquire loans for Kensington. It was always contemplated that it would be 
acquired by Kensington immediately after it completed. Even though the loan agreement 
said that the lender was Money Partners, this was and was always intended to be a 
Kensington loan. The loan agreement made clear it would become a Kensington loan. The 
transfer  contemplated from the start  transferred rights and obligations. 
I must clarify that there is nothing wrong in this business model. Both Kensington and Money 
Partners were allowed to operate in this way and nothing they did in relation to the granting 
or acquisition of loans breached regulations.
The lender was Money Partners, and so the lending decision, administration and 
underwriting of the loan before it was transferred to Kensington was carried out by that 
business. Money Partners was a discrete business from Kensington. Its operations were 
ring-fenced from Kensington.  It is no longer trading. I do not have access to its files. 
So although I have noted what Mr T has said about what he considers to be the unsuitability 
of the loan, I cant comment on anything that happened before Kensington took over the loan 
after it had completed on 19 July 2006.
There is no evidence to show PPI was ever taken out with this mortgage. In fact, the 
evidence suggests that it was not. But, even if PPI had been taken out, that would be the 
responsibility of the party which sold it. That party is not Kensington, which has confirmed it 
holds no information or records about any contact or dealings between the broker and 
Money Partners between June 2006 (when the loan was applied for)and the date the loan 
completed on 19 July 2006. I wouldnt expect it to, as it wasnt involved in the transaction 
until after the loan completed.
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied Kensington wasnt responsible for the sale of the 
mortgage, any advice given by the broker to take it out (although this appears to be a non-
advised sale), PPI (if any), the affordability assessment and the underwriting and approval of 
the mortgage. This means Im unable to uphold this complaint against Kensington.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman