DRN-3167228
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly rejected his 
claim under a pet insurance policy. And he also thinks the exclusion added to the policy is 
unfair.
What happened
Mr H bought a puppy. Within a few days of collecting it he took it to the vet for a routine 
examination, which revealed no issues. A few days later though Mr H returned as the puppy 
had symptoms of blood in faeces. Checks carried out revealed diagnoses of Giardia and 
Campylobacter and Mr H claimed for the treatment provided.
Red Sands rejected the claim because the conditions arose within the first 14 days of the 
policy starting and, like many other pet policies, such circumstances were expressly 
excluded. And it applied a further exclusion for all claims with respect to The Digestive 
System.
Our investigator explained why she considered the initial 14-day period of no cover was 
sufficiently brought to Mr Hs attention during the online sale as well as within the significant 
exclusions and limitations part of the policy. She thought Red Sands had fairly rejected his 
claim for treatment of conditions arising in that period.
On the issue of the exclusion for The Digestive System the investigator thought this was 
unfair in all the circumstances. She explained the policy stated, if your pet first showed 
any clinical signsinjury or an illnessor was diagnosed with a condition within the first 14 
dayswe reserve the right to apply an exclusion to your policy in respect of this clinical sign, 
accident, injury, illness or condition. 
She said the wording indicated that the exclusion would be for the clinical sign, illness or 
condition experienced within the 14-day period. And so, the exclusion should fairly relate to 
the Giardia and Campylobacter only, although she acknowledged if the conditions arose 
before the policy started then the wider exclusion for The Digestive System might fairly 
apply.
Broadly speaking Mr H agreed, he raised an issue about losing out financially, but the 
investigator explained this didnt persuade her to change her view because the 14-day 
limitation was expressly and sufficiently brought to his attention. Red Sands disagreed with 
her conclusion on the fairness of the application of The Digestive System exclusion. It said 
the underwriting criteria sets out that the named conditions should have an exclusion for 
The Digestive System and not per condition. As it has applied that criteria to Mr Hs policy, 
Red Sands considers this to be fair.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues which form the crux of this complaint and which I need to determine: 
the rejection of the claim; and the exclusion for The Digestive System.
Claim
There is no doubt that the treatment and conditions claimed for arose within 14 days of the 
policy starting. And theres no doubt the policy expressly excludes claims in such 
circumstances. Having considered the policy documentation and what was presented to 
Mr H when buying the policy, Im satisfied this was made clear and sufficiently prominent. 
Such an exclusionary period is common to pet insurance policies, and so Im not persuaded 
Red Sands is unfair. And while Mr H has said he lost out because he didnt take up a free 4-
week policy, Red Sands wording was clear and sufficiently prominent, and I dont hold it at 
fault for Mr Hs decision.
Exclusion applied
The exclusion for any claim to do with The Digestive System has wide applicability to a vast 
number of illnesses, injuries and conditions. Red Sands reserves in the policy the right to 
apply an exclusion to your policy in respect ofthis illness or condition. Red Sands says 
it has done just that  applied an exclusion for this condition and it just happens to be that 
underwriters have decided The Digestive System is that exclusion. 
My determination is based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I think its appropriate to factor in that there were no clinical signs apparent 
before Mr H bought the policy. And indeed, the first veterinary check-up revealed no 
concerns around the conditions that materialised around a week later. Where conditions are 
apparent before a policy starts, or there has been a misrepresentation, I think its appropriate 
the insurer can review the risk based on the information it should have known when the 
policy was first bought. And in such circumstances, it may decide to only offer terms based 
on what it would have done with that information.
However, in this case Mr H entered into the insurance contract in good faith and the puppy 
had no gastrointestinal issues of concern. The conditions arose post-inception, were 
identified and treated successfully. In balancing whats fair in these circumstances I take into 
account the vast number of other conditions and illnesses that come within the umbrella 
exclusion for The Digestive System. And I think, in the circumstances of this case, it would 
be disproportionate and unfair to have such a wide exclusion applied for two narrow 
conditions arising after the policy started.
Putting things right
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must change the exclusion on Mr Hs 
policy to that of Giardia and Campylobacter and confirm same to him in writing. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman