DRN-3757647
The complaint
Mr R complains about a claim he made on his home emergency insurance policy with  
British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr R and British Gas. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr R had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. In early January 2022, he 
had a problem with his central heating and he contacted British Gas. Because of demand for 
their services, British Gas were unable to arrange a home visit as quickly as Mr R wanted. 
British Gas authorised a third party independent engineer repair and reimbursed Mr R the 
cost. Mr R then cancelled his policy on 25 January 2022. 
A third party independent engineer serviced the boiler on 28 January 2022. That engineer 
said there were a number of faults with the boiler which - in their opinion, shouldve been 
identified by British Gas during the period when Mr R had cover with them. For one of the 
faults, Mr R was quoted around £600 for the repair. Mr R decided to replace his boiler due to 
the cost and the age of it. British Gas told Mr R they wouldnt reimburse him for the cost of 
the new boiler or what the repair wouldve cost him. 
Mr R complained to British Gas. In their final response they said theyd pay Mr R £242.02  
which is what the repair wouldve cost them. They also offered £40 compensation for the 
time taken to look into the complaint. Mr R remained unhappy and referred his complaint to 
our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. Mr R didnt accept our investors recommendations and the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Rs frustrations at his experience, I dont uphold this complaint.
When Mr R initially contacted British Gas, demand for their services meant call outs were 
taking far longer than theyd have liked. I find their option of allowing a third party engineer to 
visit and then reimbursing Mr R a fair and reasonable remedy. The alternative wouldve been 
to wait until an engineer from British Gas network became available. 
The January 2022 boiler service 
When Mr R cancelled this policy with British Gas  due to the response times and the cost of 
renewal, he arranged cover through a third party company. A first service under that 
agreement was carried out on 28 January 2022. 
Although that engineer (in Mr Rs testimony) found that there were a number of issues that 
they felt shouldve been picked up on during the previous policy term with British Gas, Im 
not sufficiently persuaded based on the evidence provided. I say this because:
The last service with British Gas had been in June 2021. Its plausible that the issues 
later identified first occurred after this date - as no evidence has been provided by  
Mr R that these issues existed at the time of British Gas last service.
The boiler was also visited by an independent third party engineer in early January 
2022. Although I accept they will have been called out for a specific purpose, no 
evidence has been provided that these problems were apparent at that point. 
This boiler was around 9 years old at this time. Given the typical lifespan of a boiler, 
its not unusual that faults would develop as a boiler moves towards the end of its life 
span.
On balance, I dont find that British Gas have done anything wrong when not reimbursing 
Mr R for the cost of a new boiler. 
Mr R chose to replace a boiler (granted it was around 9 years old) at a greater cost than it 
wouldve been to repair it. Therefore, his loss was the cost of a new boiler  not the repair 
cost for £576 that didnt actually take place. In any case, a new boiler wasnt something that 
was covered under this policy.
Overall, I find that the offer by British Gas to reimburse Mr R what it would have cost them 
(£242.02) to make the necessary repairs is fair and reasonable. I dont require British Gas to 
do anything further here.
Complaint handling
In this case British Gas offered Mr R £40 for any delays when they were investigating his 
complaint. 
Our Service cant consider complaints that are solely about complaint handling. DISP 2.3.1 
says our Service can consider a complaint if it relates to a regulated activity. Complaint 
handling in isolation isnt a regulated activity. I wont comment further on this complaint point.
Whilst I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr R, it brings to an end our 
Services involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and British 
Gas. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman