DRN-1887746
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ebury Partners UK Limited suspended and closed his foreign exchange 
account.
What happened
Mr G held accounts with Ebury in both his personal capacity and through his company, 
which Ill refer to as D. 
In July 2019, D received a large payment into its account which Ebury held while it reviewed 
the transaction. With his company unable to access those funds for the purpose of a 
business deal, Mr G sought to complete a related transaction in his personal name. He 
attempted to transfer funds from an account held elsewhere to his personal account with 
Ebury. But on receipt of the funds, Ebury held the transaction and suspended the account. 
Ebury later returned the funds and closed Mr Gs account.
Mr G says Ebury acted unfairly. He says he attempted the transfer at Eburys suggestion. It 
was coming from the personal account that hed long used, and the purpose of the transfer 
was supported by an invoice in his personal name. So he doesnt think Ebury shouldve had 
any concerns. As a result, of its actions, he says both he and D incurred additional costs in 
having to make alternative arrangements while without the funds.
Mr G also says that Ebury suspended and closed his account without justification and 
without notice. 
Ebury has defended its position. And after looking into things, our investigator didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. In summary, she said:
She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say that Ebury had advised Mr G to 
attempt the payment or made any promises about its success.
Ebury had discretion to suspend and reject the payment under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Gs account and hadnt acted unfairly in doing so here. Similarly it 
had been entitled to review the account and suspend access while it did so, for which 
it didnt have to give notice or disclose a reason to Mr G.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account also allowed Ebury to close it 
immediately in certain circumstances, and that hadnt been unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that hed been encouraged to 
make the payment in the first place, highlighting that Ebury hadnt challenged that in its initial 
response to his complaint and that the conversation in question ought to have been 
recorded. He also queried the extent of Eburys discretion in taking the actions it did  and 
said that procedural fairness required it to disclose its reasons.
So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ebury held the incoming payment after it was flagged by its transaction monitoring team. It 
has a number of legal and regulatory responsibilities and given the circumstances here, I 
think it was reasonable for it to suspend and review the payment and account in fulfilling 
them. Ive borne in mind both the nature of the transaction  and in particular, the amount 
involved  but also the wider context of Eburys review of Ds account that was ongoing at 
the time, with the relevance of Mr G being a director of D. Such action was allowed under 
the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account, which didnt require any notice to be given. 
Mr G doesnt think Ebury acted fairly here as he says he only attempted the payment at his 
account managers suggestion. But I dont think theres enough evidence to support that. 
The account managers recollection is different  he says he suggested only that this might 
be a possible way for Mr G to fund the transaction he was looking to make (which all related 
to Ds business deal). Its regrettable that there isnt a call recording to clear this up. But in its 
absence, I have to decide what is most likely to have happened based on the available 
evidence. And on balance, I think its more likely that Ebury acknowledged this as a possible 
option for Mr G  and I note that Mr G initiated the conversation so seems to have been 
driving things  as opposed to giving him any assurances as to how successful it might be. 
In any event, I wouldnt have expected Ebury to pre-empt any compliance issues with Mr G 
before the transaction was attempted.
I note Mr Gs concerns about the absence of a call recording. But given the call was made 
by Mr G to the account managers mobile, I think its understandable that a recording wasnt 
made. Mr G also points to the fact that Ebury didnt initially deny that the advice he describes 
had been given. But I dont think it follows that this is acceptance of what he says. And Ebury 
set out its position in its final response to the complaint, which included the account 
managers recollection as summarised above. So I dont agree that either of these points 
should lead to a presumption in Mr Gs favour, as he suggests.
Following the review, Ebury decided to close Mr Gs account immediately. I think this was a 
decision that Ebury was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed for the 
agreement to be terminated immediately and without notice, in certain circumstances. Im 
satisfied, from the information Ive seen, that its decision was justified in light of the concerns 
Ebury had here  and again Ive borne in mind the relevance of the relationship with D, 
which Ebury also terminated at the same time. 
I also think Ebury carried out the review within a reasonable timeframe. The payment was 
attempted on 12 July, which triggered the review and suspension. Ebury decided to close 
the account on 24 July, and funds were returned to the remitting bank shortly thereafter. So I 
dont think Ebury did anything wrong in how it conducted the review.
I understand Mr G is concerned at the apparent lack of restraint over Eburys discretion to 
carry out the actions it has here. But as set out above the terms and conditions of the 
account allow for these measures to be used in certain circumstances, and from the 
evidence provided to us Im satisfied that Ebury was entitled to take the action it did here. I 
appreciate that not knowing the specifics makes this hard to accept for Mr G. But Ebury isnt 
required to disclose its reasons to him  and I dont find it unreasonable that its declined to 
do so in the circumstances here. As Ive not found that Ebury did anything wrong in how it handled this matter, it follows that I 
dont think it needs to compensate Mr G for any additional expenses he incurred as a result 
of these issues. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman