DRN-4190596
Complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc didnt reimburse him after he 
fell victim to a scam. P is represented by its director, Mr M. For simplicitys sake, Ill refer to 
Mr M throughout the text of this decision.
Background
Mr M wanted to construct a home office building. He found a contractor online and contacted 
them. The contractor gave him a plan and quoted a price of £15,000. Mr M agreed that he 
would pay £7,500 up front and then the balance on satisfactory completion of the work.
However, I understand the contractor failed to carry out the agreement. They visited Mr Ms 
home and began work on constructing the foundations for the building. The work was 
repeatedly delayed. After this went on for some time, the contractor told Mr M that he 
couldnt complete the job after all. Mr M asked for his deposit to be refunded.
When the contractor didnt refund the money to him, Mr M contacted Bank of Ireland and told 
it hed fallen victim to a scam. Ive seen evidence to suggest that there are several other 
victims of the same individual and he is currently subject to criminal proceedings. Bank of 
Ireland looked into his complaint but said it wouldnt pay a refund. It said Mr M had 
authorised the payment and so it thought it fair for him to be held liable for it. Mr M had 
specifically pointed out that, although he believed he was paying the contractors business 
account, the account he paid was a personal one. It responded in the following terms:
I appreciate that the beneficiary of your transfer was not as you instructed however 
we do not offer a Confirmation of Payee check when a new payee is added. As such, 
it is your responsibility to confirm that all account details are correct with the intended 
beneficiary prior to sending a payment.
Mr M was unhappy with the response he received from Bank of Ireland and so he referred
his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The
Investigator said that the transfer in question wasnt unusual or out of character and so Bank
of Ireland couldnt reasonably have been expected to be concerned about the risk of fraud.
Mr M was unhappy with the Investigators conclusions and so the complaint was passed to
me to consider.
Mr M specifically queried what investigation had been carried out into the contractors bank
account and was unhappy that the Investigator didnt appear to have looked into this. After
the case was passed to me, I made enquiries on that point. The contractors bank account
was also operated by Bank of Ireland and so it shared relevant information with me
regarding the opening and operation of that account. Ive set out the findings on that point
below.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 31 May 2023. I wrote: 
It is common ground that Mr M authorised the payment. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss at first instance. However, this is 
not the end of the story. Bank of Ireland was also under a range of obligations related 
to protecting customers from fraud. Broadly summarised, it was expected to be on 
the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that were indicative of a fraud 
risk. It shouldnt have processed such payments without first making some enquiries 
to satisfy itself that Mr M wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
There is a voluntary code known as the Contingent Reimbursement Model which 
asks its signatories to reimburse customers who fall victim to scams, subject to a 
range of exceptions. However, Im afraid Bank of Ireland is not a signatory to that 
code and so Mr M doesnt benefit from any of its provisions as far as these payments 
are concerned.
The question I have to consider then is whether Bank of Ireland ought to have 
recognised that there was an increased risk of fraud when Mr M made the transfer of 
£7,500. We now know with the benefit of hindsight that its likely this was a scam. 
However, I dont think there were any clear indicators from the banks perspective 
that the risk of fraud was higher with this payment.
I cant reasonably conclude the payment was out of character. Mr M made a £12,000 
payment to HMRC the same month and another payment of £22,000 a little over six 
months prior to the scam. A transfer of £7,500 wouldnt have stood out. For that 
reason, I dont think Bank of Ireland couldve been expected to intervene and 
question that payment with Mr M before processing it.
Even if I concluded differently on that point and found that it shouldve paused the 
payment and called Mr M first, its not clear what difference that wouldve made. At 
the time, there was no reason to suspect that the person hed contracted with was 
anything other than legitimate. There was a trading history and the contractor had 
provided a sufficiently detailed specification for the job.
Mr M says that, if it had been brought to his attention that he was making the 
payment to a personal account rather than a business one, he wouldnt have 
proceeded with it. He says that Bank of Ireland shouldve brought this to his attention 
at the time. However, Bank of Ireland wasnt covered by the Confirmation of Payee 
process at the time and so there wouldnt have been any way for it (or Mr M) to know 
for sure the name of the owner of the destination account.
Bank of Ireland was also the operator of the recipients bank account. As a result, it 
had several obligations additional to the ones Ive described above. It needed to 
carry out appropriate checks on the prospective customer when opening a new 
account, be on the lookout for activity on that account that might suggest it was being 
used for fraud and also to act quickly once on notice that fraudulently obtained funds 
have been paid into it.
From the evidence it has shared with us, I can see it completed identification checks 
in line with its regulatory obligations and I dont think there was anything at the time 
that couldve reasonably alerted it to the fact that the account it was opening might 
later be used in connection with fraud.Ive also reviewed the statements for the account. Taking into consideration the 
nature of the account and its expected use, I dont think that Mr Ms payment 
crediting the account, nor the spending of those funds would have given Bank of 
Ireland cause for concern to the extent that Id say it ought to have intervened.
I also looked at whether Bank of Ireland did what it needed to do once it was on 
notice that Mr M had fallen victim to a scam. Ive seen data on the payments made 
from the receiving account. Mr Ms funds were dispersed or transferred to other 
accounts within two weeks. It wasnt until some time later that Mr M realised this was 
a scam and so recovery of his funds was no longer possible.
I dont want to downplay or diminish the fact that Mr M appears to have fallen victim 
to a cynical fraud. However, my role here is only to look at the actions and the 
inactions of the bank. Having done so, Im not persuaded that it couldve been 
expected to prevent the fraud.
Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision. He wanted to know:
- What checks had been carried out by Bank of Ireland before allowing the fraudster to 
open his accounts?
- Why did my provisional decision only refer to one of the accounts when the fraudster 
had both a business account and a personal account with Bank of Ireland?
- Do the checks carried out by Bank of Ireland record that the fraudster was declared 
bankrupt in another country and is the subject of a criminal investigation for fraud 
committed there too?
- Did Bank of Ireland carry out any searches of public domain records, criminal records 
databases or a credit check?
- Did Bank of Ireland carry out any enhanced customer due diligence checks, 
particularly given that the fraudster had only recently returned from overseas?
He also argued that Bank of Irelands failure to have signed up to the CRM Code or the 
Confirmation of Payee process left him (and other customers) more exposed to the risk of 
fraud. Overall, Mr M explained that he considered deficiencies in Bank of Irelands systems 
and controls left him unprotected from fraud of this kind.
Following Mr Ms response to my provisional decision, I asked Bank of Ireland to provide 
evidence regarding the business account in addition to the information it had already shared 
with us about the personal account to which Mr M made the payment.
The requirements for a bank when opening a new customer account are specified in 
legislation  specifically, The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds 
(Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. Those regulations say that Bank of Ireland 
needed to verify the identity of the customer  before the establishment of a business 
relationship  
From the evidence provided to me, the fraudster completed an application form and provided 
two forms of identification (a driving licence and a passport). The address on the driving 
licence matched the one he gave on the application form. The same procedure was followed 
for the opening of both the personal and the business account.
There is no automatic expectation that a firm should carry out detailed additional checks of the sort Mr M has asked about. The regulations set out the circumstances under which a 
bank must apply enhanced customer due diligence and none of these applied to the 
receiving account holder. There is a catch-all provision in the regulations that says enhanced 
customer due diligence should be applied in any case which by its nature can present a 
higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing.
Im afraid I dont think there was anything that ought to have put Bank of Ireland on notice of 
the risk that either account would eventually be used to receive fraudulent funds nor 
anything about the way either account was used on an ongoing basis that suggested its 
customer had started to use the account for criminal purposes. For those reasons, I dont 
think it did anything wrong in carrying out standard customer checks when opening the two 
accounts.
Finally, I appreciate the point that Mr M has made regarding the fact that Bank of Ireland isnt 
signed up to the CRM Code. But the Code is voluntary and I cant apply its provisions to any 
bank that hasnt signed up. Overall, while I know that Mr M will be hugely disappointed by 
the outcome, Ive not seen anything to persuade me to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman