DRN-3166382
The complaint
Mr S complains about the administration of his account when his agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services ended. Hes 
also unhappy about the way his complaint was handled.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a PCP agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement ended in February 2021.
Mr S has said that he was contacted by VWFS in August 2020 regarding his end of contract 
options, with a request that he contact VWFS if he wanted to hand back the car. Mr S 
emailed VWFS to request a settlement figure and for an indication of the cost of voluntary 
termination. VWFS replied with a settlement figure but didnt provide any information on 
voluntary termination.
Mr S checked his agreement online and says it showed that he had a fixed price service to 
redeem. He queried this with VWFS and asked again for information on voluntary 
termination. VWFS advised Mr S that he did t have fixed price service to redeem and 
provided him with information about voluntary termination.
In December 2020 Mr S tried to notify VWFS that he intended to hand back the car using a 
link which had been provided to him in an email from VWFS, but the link didnt work. Mr S 
contacted VWFS via the customer portal to ask how he could access the relevant form to 
hand the car back. He also queried why his account was still showing that he had a fixed 
price service to redeem. VWFS replied and advised Mr S that he couldnt request a hand 
back until after his final payment had been made in January 2021.
In January 2021 Mr S emailed VWFS and said he wanted to hand the car back at the end of 
the agreement. He sent two further emails chasing a response. VWFS replied and advised 
Mr S to contact them again once he had made his final payment.
Mr S made his final payment on 15 January 2021. He emailed VWFS to request hand back 
of the car. He also sent a complaint about the hand back process and the poor customer 
service he felt hed received. VWFS replied and advised Mr s that his request to hand back 
the car was being processed and that an agent would be in touch to arrange an inspection. 
VWFS also resolved Mr Ss complaint about the fixed price service and paid him £120 as a 
goodwill gesture.
The car was inspected and collected at the end of January 2021. Mr S telephoned VWFS 
chasing his invoice for excess mileage charges and was advised that these hadnt yet been 
processed. Mr S asked for an invoice to be sent to him and made a further complaint about 
the service hed received.
In March 2021 VWFS wrote to Mr S advising him that his account was in arrears. It also sent 
details of end of contract charges, but the letter showed two different figures. Mr S contacted 
VWFS to query the charges. He also queried his online account, which stated that he owed 
arrears of around £14,000. VWFS then sent a statement of account with a different arrears 
figure. 
Mr S complained again about the service hed received. He said he hadnt received a 
breakdown of the arrears and was unhappy about the conflicting information in the arrears 
letters he was receiving. 
VWFS left Mr S a voicemail regarding his complaint but Mr S was unable to contact the 
representative when he called. Mr S sent further emails, but these were placed with his 
previous closed complaint in error by VWFS. 
VWFs acknowledged that Mr S had been caused inconvenience and offered compensation 
of £140.
Mr S remained unhappy with the outcome and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no dispute that Mr S had 
received poor service and had been given conflicting information about his account. He 
explained that it wasnt the role of this service to punish a business for customer service 
which fell below expectations. The investigator agreed that Mr S had been caused frustration 
and annoyance by the level of service hed received but said he thought that the 
compensation offered by VWFS was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt think VWFS had been clear about the end of contract 
charges and said he still hadnt received a written breakdown of the arrears. He said hed 
received several letters all showing different account balances..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
I appreciate that Mr S has been caused a significant degree of frustration during the process 
of ending his agreement with VWFS. In particular, hes raised concerns that his emails 
werent responded to, and that VWFS has either failed to respond to him on the issues hes 
raised or has provided conflicting information.
VWFS has acknowledged that it failed to respond to some of Mr Ss emails. It has explained 
that these were directed to one of his previous closed complaints in error. 
Ive looked at the letters which were sent to Mr S regarding the balance on his account. I 
agree that the information is conflicting. I can see that Mr S requested a written breakdown 
of the arrears, and although this figure was explained to him on the phone, I cant see that 
the breakdown has ever been provided in writing as he requested. I think the information 
provided by VWFS about the arrears is confusing and conflicting. I think VWFS couldve 
done more to explain to Mr S how this sum was calculated.
Its clear that things have gone wrong here, and I understand Mr Ss frustration at the level of 
service he received. That said, its not the role of this service to fine or punish a business, 
and having thought about the offer made by VWFS, on balance I think it is fair and reasonable and is in line with what this service would award. So, I wont be asking VWFS to 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman