DRN-4002280
The complaint
Miss C complains about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds (Markerstudy) handling 
of her car insurance claim.  
What happened
Miss C was involved in a car accident which she reported to Markerstudy. Miss Cs car was 
deemed a total loss, but she says Markerstudy took two months to decide how to settle the 
claim and her car wasnt even assessed until a month into the claim. Miss C complained 
about the delay and also about not being given a courtesy car and about Markerstudys lack 
of communication with her. Markerstudy responded and explained they were satisfied their 
in-house engineers and approved repairers followed the correct process but accepted the 
decision on total loss couldve been made sooner. So, as well as apologising, they paid £150 
compensation to Miss C. Markerstudy said they understand Miss C was without a car for this 
period, but their terms and conditions say a courtesy car is provided, subject to availability, 
when repairs are being carried out  and that wasnt the case here. 
During our investigation, Markerstudy agreed to our service looking into an additional 
complaint point. Miss C says she was initially told her excess would be waived, but this was 
later deducted from her claim settlement.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss C. He thought Markerstudys compensation of 
£150 was fair for the delay but recommended they pay an additional £150 for 
miscommunication relating to Miss Cs excess. Miss C disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Miss C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
 
Delays 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. 
The key facts about the part of the complaint relating to Markerstudys delays in deciding 
whether Miss Cs car was repairable or a total loss arent in dispute. Markerstudy have 
admitted they got things wrong and have paid £150 which Miss C has received and 
accepted. Looking at the impact to Miss C, I think £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Theres no dispute between the parties about this, so Ive looked at the 
remaining parts of Miss Cs complaint. 
Courtesy car
I understand Miss C feels Markerstudy shouldve given her a courtesy car and the claim 
notes provided by Markerstudy show Miss C was asking for this. Miss Cs car insurance 
policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions and defines a courtesy car as A car loaned 
to you by our approved repairer whilst the insured vehicle is being repaired It goes further 
to say, if a valid claim is made under the policy, and the insured vehicle is to be repaired, 
Markerstudy will provide a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs, but this is subject to 
availability. I am sorry to learn about the disruption and inconvenience caused to Miss C 
during the period she didnt have a car, but I cant say Markerstudy have made an error 
here. 
While there was delay caused by Markerstudy in deciding whether to repair or write-off Miss 
Cs car, its important to note no repairs were ever started. So, on this basis, and in line with 
the terms and conditions, Markerstudy didnt have to provide a courtesy car. I can see 
however a request was made by Markerstudy to their approved repairer to provide Miss C 
with a courtesy car. Markerstudy say the approved repairer confirmed they didnt have a 
courtesy car available at the time due to a nationwide shortage of courtesy cars. And 
because they later decided Miss Cs car was beyond economical repair, theres no provision 
in the policy for a courtesy car at this point. 
Communication
I do acknowledge Miss Cs frustration over the period where Markerstudy were considering 
repairs or total loss of her car. Ive looked at the claim notes and this does demonstrate 
regular contact between Miss C and Markerstudy. I accept there were a number of 
occasions where the contact was instigated by Miss C, but I cant hold Markerstudy 
responsible for a lack of communication if Miss C contacted them before they were able to 
proactively update Miss C. I do understand why Miss C was contacting Markerstudy to 
ensure things were moving forward and I can see Miss C was given updates during her 
contact with Markerstudy. So, from the information Ive seen, I dont think Markerstudys 
level of communication with Miss C was unreasonable. 
Excess
I understand the payment of the policy excess of £500 is Miss Cs main area of dispute. I 
acknowledge Miss C says she was assured her excess would be waived but Markerstudy 
have gone against this. I do understand why Miss C is upset because Ive seen a text 
message sent to her by Markerstudy which says her excess has been waived. This was sent 
after Miss C had reported the accident circumstances, so I do acknowledge why this led her 
to believe this was going to be treated as a non-fault accident  and therefore why her 
excess was being waived. Markerstudy accept they made an error and the text message 
shouldnt have said the excess was being waived. They say its not possible to waive or 
refund the excess until they have an admission of liability and the claim is fully settled with 
the third-party insurer. The information Ive seen shows the claim is ongoing with liability still 
in dispute. 
The policy booklet defines excess as An amount you have to pay towards the cost of a 
claim and You have to pay this amount regardless of the circumstances leading to the 
claim. The terms and conditions go further and explain how Markerstudy settle claims. This 
section says Markerstudy wont pay more than the market value of the car, less the excess. 
So, taking this into account, I dont think it was unreasonable  or against the terms and 
conditions  for Markerstudy to deduct the excess from the claim settlement. That said, I do 
think Miss C has been given conflicting information. At the point the text message was sent, 
there wasnt any liability admission and the claim also wasnt settled with the third-party insurer. So, I believe Markerstudys comment about the excess being waived was an error. 
But Miss C was led to believe it had been waived and she was left upset and frustrated when 
Markerstudy later informed her the excess was payable. And I think Markerstudy should pay 
an additional £150 compensation for the impact of this. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Markerstudy have delayed in deciding how to settle Miss Cs car 
claim and also miscommunication relating to the excess. So, in addition to the £150 already 
paid, they should pay an additional £150 for the upset and frustration  bringing the total 
paid for this complaint to £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited 
have already paid £150 compensation  so they must pay Miss C an additional £150 to bring 
the total amount of compensation paid to £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman