DRN-3170152
Complaint
Mrs and Mr G complained about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy they 
say was mis-sold to them in the late 1980s. 
The mortgage and PPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is now responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax 
throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr G its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
These events are obviously from a considerable time ago. Nevertheless, in my view, there 
is comprehensive and verifiable evidence to show this PPI was probably sold correctly with 
the full agreement of the consumers. I can see, for example, that only Mr G was covered by 
the policy and he signed a specific application form to have it, in November 1988. This PPI 
application was separate from his and Mrs Gs joint-mortgage application and titled, Halifax 
Mortgage Payments Protector. It clearly said he wanted to add this type of protection with 
the mortgage. He signed his name directly next to a declaration which said, I/we wish to 
join the Halifax scheme. They were also sent or given a certificate of insurance showing 
who and what was covered.
I note Mr G originally implied he and Mrs G knew nothing about ever agreeing to this type of 
policy and they only became aware some 30 years or so later. However, I also note, that 
after our adjudicator had responded to the initial complaint points, Mr G then sent us a note 
containing a number of supporting reasons for his mis-sale allegation. On this, he said he 
and Mrs G were told they had to buy the policy and were pressured into taking it out. 
Clearly, both these things cannot be right. The sale was from well over 30 years ago and 
Im afraid Mr Gs recollections of being pressured are therefore not supported by either the 
facts or what he said before. Obviously, if they knew nothing at all about the existence of 
the policy  then they could not have been pressurised into taking it out.
Mr G also went on to say he recalls being made redundant early in the policys timeframe 
and he never claimed for becoming unemployed under the policy provisions. He implies this 
must mean he never knew he had it. But as well as conflicting with the other things weve 
been told, I see Mr G did also fill out a claim form in 1990, saying hed lost work. Its not 
clear if the claim was successful or not, but it evidently adds considerable weight to him 
knowing about the policy and having bought it because he wanted it for unforeseen events.
Halifax concedes it would have probably recommended the PPI as part of an advised sale. 
This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for Mrs and Mr Gs needs. 
I think it was suitable. 
I say this because Mr G appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests 
it wasnt affordable for him and Mrs G. Mr G implied they didnt need the cover because he 
also had sickness protection with his job. Ive thought very carefully about this, but it doesnt 
make the PPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against their home and so the 
consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the 
event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months which in my 
experience is a relatively long time. This would have been in addition to any other means 
they had in place at the time. I therefore dont think the PPI being recommended to them 
was unreasonable. The policy was a suitable product for their consideration.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I cant 
confirm whether Halifax did everything right, but having discussed the cover Mrs and Mr G 
were given the supporting literature explaining the policy rules. Mr G said the policy benefits 
werent know to him, but I see the cash element of £250 was prominently shown on the 
form he signed.
Id like to place on record that I accept Mrs and Mr G genuinely feel now that they were mis-
sold this PPI. However, Im afraid what Ive seen very strongly suggests otherwise. This PPI 
policy was not mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. 
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.  
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman