DRN-3836288
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was incorrectly told his hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services was settled. 
What happened
In February 2018, Mr K acquired a used car with a hire purchase agreement from VWFS. 
The car was registered in January 2017, which means it was about a year old and had 
travelled 5,542 miles when it was supplied to Mr K. The cash price of the car was £20,940. 
Mr K made an advanced payment of £1,500 so the total amount financed on this agreement 
was £19,440 to be repaid over 48 monthly repayments of £275.15, followed by a final 
payment of £12,207.50.
Mr K says in February 2022 when the final payment was due, he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, so he asked VWFS for a payment deferral (PD). Mr K says that in May 2022 he 
received a letter from VWFS saying that the agreement was settled and that they had no 
financial interest in the vehicle. Mr K said he called VWFS and they confirmed to him that the 
agreement had been settled. Mr K says a few months later he received correspondence 
from VWFS advising an amount was due on his agreement, and that his credit file would be 
affected if it wasnt paid.
Mr K complained to VWFS about the issue as he was told the agreement was settled. Mr K 
said he used his money for other purposes and feels VWFS should waive the final payment.
In august 2022, VWFS issued their final response to Mr Ks complaint. VWFS upheld Mr Ks 
complaint. They confirmed that despite not making the final payment on his agreement of 
£12,207.50, Mr K was incorrectly sent a clearance of obligation letter in May 2022, and that 
one of their agents incorrectly told Mr K that the agreement had nothing left to pay on it. 
VWFS offered Mr K £200 in compensation for the inconvenience caused and provided him 
with three options in relation to the car. The options were to part exchange or sell the car, or 
to refinance the final payment.
Unhappy with their decision Mr K brought his complaint to our service for investigation. One 
of our investigators looked into his complaint and didnt think VWFS needed to do anything 
more in relation to the complaint. Our investigator felt that Mr K was aware of the 
outstanding balance, and despite the error from VWFS, didnt think the amount should be 
waived or reduced. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view particularly as his credit file still showed the 
agreement as being settled. So, he asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VWFS issued a letter to Mr K dated 19 February 2022 to inform him his agreement was 
coming to an end in March 2022. The letter outlined the options available to Mr K, which 
included settling his final payment of £12,207.50 if he wanted to keep the car.
VWFS told us that as Mr K didnt make any payments, they sent him an arrears text 
message on 27 April 2022. This is also confirmed on their system notes. VWFS system 
notes also show that Mr K made arrangements to make the final payment on 27 May 2022. 
So, from the information provided Im satisfied that Mr K was aware of the final payment if he 
wished to keep the car.
I dont think theres any dispute that VWFS made a clerical mistake when they recorded the 
agreement as being settled. When Mr K incorrectly received a settlement letter on 24 May 
2022, he called VWFS about a week later to confirm. Im persuaded Mr K would have known 
this was an error on VWFS part. I think the phone call he made to VWFS to check the 
settlement information, as well as knowing he hadnt made the payment, which was a 
significant amount, was enough for him to reasonably be aware that VWFS had made a 
mistake. In addition, Mr K advised on our complaint form that he used the funds for other 
purposes. 
Within a month of making the error, VWFS contacted Mr K about it and provided him with the 
options for settlement, which was essentially what was agreed with him initially. And after Mr 
K complained about their error, VWFS paid him £200 in compensation. I think VWFS 
actions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K says he thinks the outstanding balance should be waived, particularly as his credit fie 
shows the agreement as being settled. I dont think the circumstances of this complaint 
warrants the outstanding balance being written off, nor do I think it should be reduced. The 
final payment is a significant element of the agreement that Mr K entered into with VWFS 
and something he should have to pay if he chooses to keep the car. I think VWFS offer of 
£200 compensation is reasonable for any inconvenienced caused. And in relation to Mr Ks 
credit file VWFS confirmed to our investigator that theyd update the HPI marker to show an 
outstanding amount.
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr K would have been reasonably led, by VWFS 
error into thinking the balance on his agreement was fairly or appropriately settled. I think 
VWFS acted fairly following their error and within a reasonable time frame of a month. So, I 
think its fair for VWFS to expect Mr K to proceed with ending the agreement by selecting 
one of the options available to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman