DRN-2476679
The complaint
Ms R has complained that S.D.Taylor Limited (trading as Loans at Home (LAH)) gave her 
unaffordable loans.
 
What happened
Ms R took five instalment loans from LAH between September 2018 and March 2020. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be 
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Combined 
Weekly Repayment
1 12/09/2018 22/05/2019 45 £750 £30.00
2 22/05/2019 11/12/2019 46 £875 £35.00
3 25/09/2019 25/03/2020 33 £200 £45.00
4 11/12/2019 outstanding 46 £995 £49.80
5 25/03/2020 outstanding 46 £500 £59.80
In its final response dated 21 August 2020, LAH agreed that it shouldnt have approved 
loans 3-5. LAH offered to refund the interest and charges applied to these loans and to 
amend Ms Rs credit file. LAH would then use the refund to offset against the outstanding 
principal loan balance for loans 4 and 5. But even after doing this an outstanding balance 
would still remain but LAH offered to write this balance off.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Rs complaint. As LAH had upheld loans 3-5 in their 
final response, the adjudicator only looked at Ms Rs first two loans. But she didnt think LAH 
was wrong to lend to her based on the information that had been gathered about Ms Rs 
financial circumstances.
It appears that LAH agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Ms R disagreed and provided the 
following points to consider;
The agent took screenshots of Ms R income and online bank statements. But the 
figures were all amended so she would be accepted for the loans; and
LAH hounded her at her door at night for missed payments when she is a single 
parent.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Id like to start by re-iterating that LAH have already agreed that something went wrong with 
the sale of loans 3-5. Therefore, I will not be revisiting these loans in this decision. This 
decision will focus solely on Ms Rs first two loans and whether the lender was right or wrong 
to approve them. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint. And I dont think LAH made an error 
by providing loans 1 and 2. Ive explained why below. 
When Ms R applied for her first loan, LAH asked her about her monthly income and 
expenditure, and it completed a credit check. LAH recorded Ms Rs weekly income as 
around £726. This was made up of maintenance payments, and a number of different benefit 
payments. It seems that LAH may have verified Ms Rs income by viewing something online. 
LAH also asked Ms R for her weekly expenditure which she declared to be around £353. 
This would have left Ms R with a weekly disposable income of around £342 of which to meet 
the weekly repayments for loan 1 of £30. So, based on what Ms R declared, LAH wouldve 
thought her loan repayments were affordable. 
I acknowledge that Ms R says the agent appeared to amend the figures so that she would 
be accepted for the loan. But Ms R has not provided any further information showing what 
her actual circumstances were at the time of these loans or what information was potentially 
amended by the agent. So, Im unable to conclude that her circumstances were different to 
the information recorded by LAH, and that this wouldve made a difference to LAHs lending 
decision. 
It seems LAH was aware of some adverse information showing on Ms Rs credit file  
particularly that Ms R had an unsatisfied County Court Judgement (CCJ). But as the CCJ had been applied 54 months prior to her application to LAH, I dont think this was likely to 
have concerned LAH or made it carry out further checks.  
This was Ms Rs first loan with LAH, so it had no lending history to go by. And based on the 
information gathered about Ms Rs circumstances, I dont think LAHs checks needed to go 
as far as verifying the information Ms R told it by obtaining her bank statements. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that LAH made the decision to lend.
Ms R took out loan 2 and it seems some of the amount she borrowed going towards 
repaying the outstanding balance which remained on loan 1. Ms R borrowed a slightly larger 
amount compared to her previous loan which meant the weekly repayment for loan 2 
increased to £35 per week.
It appears that LAH completed the same level of checks for loan 2 as it did for her first loan. 
LAH recorded Ms Rs weekly income as around £631 and her weekly expenditure as around 
£449. And it appears that LAH verified her income by taking screenshots of her online 
banking.
This would have left Ms R with a weekly disposable income of £177 of which to meet her 
repayment of £30, so I think she had enough to comfortably meet the loan repayments she 
was committed to making. In addition to this, the credit checks didnt show anything to 
suggest her financial situation had changed. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for LAH to 
believe that Ms R would be able to service the debt she was committing to.
I can see that that Ms Rs financial situation did change by the time she applied for loan 3 as 
I can see that a second CCJ was applied around this time. But as Ive explained, LAH has 
already agreed that something went wrong with the sale for loans 3-5. So, if LAH hasnt 
already it should arrange to carry out what it has already agreed to do.  But I havent seen 
anything which makes me think LAH was wrong to approve Ms Rs first two loans.
Ms R has also told us that LAH has harassed her by knocking on her door numerous times 
late at night. Unfortunately, there is only limited information about the actions of the agent. 
LAH has sent me it the contact notes, and there isnt anything there to make me think, for 
example, that LAH contacted Ms R at an inappropriate time. What I would add, is that Ms R 
acknowledges she was in arrears at the time, so I dont think it was unreasonable that LAH 
was trying to recover those funds. Im sorry if Ms R felt harassed by LAHs actions but Ive 
not seen quite enough to suggest that it has acted unreasonably.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint about loans 1 and 
2 because the checks LAH carried out suggested Ms R could afford the repayments she was 
committed to making. 
The offer S.D.Taylor Limited has made to settle the complaint as outlined in the final 
response letter is fair and reasonable and should be carried out, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman