DRN-4160179
The complaint
Miss A complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) unfairly held her 
responsible for a claim made by a third-party, which has increased her premiums, under her 
motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2022 Miss A says Skyfire contacted her about a claim a third-party had made against 
her policy. She told it she hadnt been involved in an accident. She provided photos of her 
car when requested to by Skyfire. She says the company didnt contact her about the photos 
and didnt send anyone to inspect her car.
When Miss As policy was due for renewal, Skyfire told her it had refused cover as her car is 
at a high risk of theft. She says she obtained insurance elsewhere declaring her three years 
no-claims discount. Miss As premium cost £98.02 per month with the new provider. This 
was later increased to £164.07 per month when it was discovered that Skyfire had reduced 
her no-claims to zero. 
Miss A doesnt think this is fair. She wants Skyfire to reinstate her no-claims and to refund 
her for the additional cost of insurance.
In its final complaint response Skyfire says it received supporting information from the third-
partys insurer on 30 June 2022. It then contacted Miss A asking her for evidence. Skyfire 
contacted Miss A by phone on 9 July asking her to sign a statement of truth. It said it could 
then dispute the third partys claim through court proceedings. It didnt receive a response 
and settled the claim accepting fault liability in July.
Skyfire says that based on the evidence presented and without a statement of truth from 
Miss A it had no option but to settle the claim as it did.
Miss A didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. He says Skyfire is able to settle a claim as it deems fit under its policy 
terms and conditions. As Miss A didnt provide a statement of truth, he thought Skyfire had 
behaved reasonably in settling the claim as it had. Our investigator says Miss A doesnt have 
a protected no-claims policy. This means Skyfire correctly reduced her no-claims to zero due 
to the fault claim.
Miss A disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her claim. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read Miss As policy terms. This explains how Skyfire will deal with any claims that are 
made against her policy. The terms under Section 11 General Conditions say:
Your insurer is entitled to:
 defend or settle any claim on your behalf;
 take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person insured on the 
policy for their own benefit;
 admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf;
 share information with others involved with the accident or claim; and
 take from the claim settlement amount any amount you owe under the related credit 
agreement (if this applies).
This is a common term found in most motor insurance policies. It essentially means Skyfire 
can decide how to deal with a claim. It doesnt need Miss As permission or agreement in 
order to do this. We dont think this is unfair. Ultimately Skyfire is responsible for paying any 
claim where Miss A is fully or partially at fault. Its reasonable that it should act to minimise 
these costs. That said, this doesnt mean it can do whatever it wants. It must still treat Miss A 
fairly. 
I can see from the claim records that Skyfire refers to the photos it received from the third-
party. And that these show Miss A at the scene of the accident along the damage to the third 
partys vehicle. The records say the third party exchanged details with Miss A at the scene. 
Skyfire contacted Miss A to inform her about the claim and to ask for information. Ive looked 
at the photos she sent in. Skyfire refers to a mark on the front number plate and on the front 
bumper. I can see these marks on the photos provided. 
I can see a call record from 10 June 2022 when Skyfire contacted Miss A to discuss the 
claim. This is when it asked for photos of her car. It sent an email the same day confirming 
further information would be requested from the third-partys insurer. Following its 
investigation Skyfire advised it would proceed to settle with Miss A at fault. She disputed this 
approach. In response Skyfire asked if she would agree to sign a legal document to confirm 
she wasnt involved in this incident. I understand this is the statement of truth document 
mentioned earlier. This request was made twice in writing to Miss A. I cant see that she 
agreed to comply with this request. 
Skyfire says that it had no option but to settle the claim as Miss A didnt provide the 
agreement it needed to pursue the claim in court. Based on the evidence it received, and in 
the absence of Miss A signing a legal statement to say she wasnt involved in the accident, I 
dont think Skyfire behaved unreasonably in settling the claim as it did. 
Its not clear why Miss A didnt agree to sign the legal document. But Im satisfied the need 
for this was made clear to her on several occasions. I note Miss A hasnt commented on this 
in her complaint correspondence to Skyfire or in her submissions to our service. But its 
apparent this is why Skyfire was unable to dispute the third-partys claim. 
Ive thought about Miss As argument that shes been the subject of a scam. She says that 
she has previously stopped on the road where the incident is said to have occurred. This is 
when paperwork has blown out of her car window, and shes had to stop to pick it up. In 
addition, she says a young man once queried if she was selling her car. Miss A says she 
stopped in order to talk to him.    
I dont dispute what Miss A says, but she didnt cooperate with Skyfire to allow it to dispute 
the claim further. Its not my role to determine whos at fault here or how the claim should be 
settled, my focus is on whether Skyfire has treated Miss A fairly. Based on what Ive read I think it did. 
Ive also thought about Miss As comments that Skyfire declined to offer her a renewal 
policy. Ive seen the information it provided from its underwriters. This is commercially 
sensitive, so I cant share. But Im satisfied from this that Skyfire applied its underwriting 
criteria correctly. This means Miss A hasnt been treated any differently from another 
customer. So, I dont think Skyfires decision not to offer a renewal policy was unfair. 
Miss A didnt have a protected no-claims policy. Her policy terms explain that this will mean 
losing periods of her no-claims discount as a result of a claim. Based on this, I dont think 
Skyfire treated Miss A unfairly.  
In summary, Miss A didnt provide the statement Skyfire needed to dispute her claim further. 
So, I think it behaved reasonably when relying on its policy terms and settling the claim as it 
did. This was based on the evidence it had available. In light of this I cant fairly ask it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman