DRN-4400107
The complaint
Miss K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as 
Very, irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility she couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2020 Miss K was granted a credit account, having had a non-credit account 
since November 2015. She was given an initial credit limit of £250. The credit limit was not 
increased during the life of the account. Shop Direct told us that the account went into 
arrears in December 2021. The account went into default in June 2022 and in July 2022 
the account was sold to an external debt collection agency. 
Miss K complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been opened for 
her because it wasnt affordable and she had a poor credit history.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ks complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable for her. 
Shop Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Miss K with credit. But even if thats true, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss Ks income at this time was around £30,000 with a net monthly 
income of around £2,000. Also, the credit was provided when there was no recent adverse 
information on Miss Ks credit file  the most recent being two years previous to her 
application for the credit. The evidence gathered by Shop Direct showed she had other 
credit commitments that totalled around £2,600. But the overall picture was that Miss Ks 
financial situation was generally under control. And given that the initial credit limit was 
reasonably modest, the maximum monthly payments for that credit would have been 
relatively modest too. 
Miss K says that she had other borrowing and a poor credit history. I realise that Miss K may 
have been juggling other debt at the time she applied for the account, but I think thats 
another reason why Shop Direct likely chose to offer an opening credit limit that was small. 
Having carefully reviewed this file, and taken note of other complaints Miss K has made to 
this service, including the credit file she provided, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
that Shop Direct would or should have seen that her financial circumstances when she 
applied for this account were such that providing her with a revolving credit facility of £250 
could be seen as unreasonable. And in the absence of other information from Miss K, I have 
seen insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led 
Shop Direct to think that it should not have issued credit to Miss K at that time.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to 
think that the credit limit it provided Miss K was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman