DRN-2832908
The complaint
Mr W complained that My Finance Club Limited trading as Myfinanceclub irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
My Finance Club provided a £200 loan to Mr W in October 2020. The loan was repayable 
the following month. Mr W mainly said that he took the loan to pay other debts and it 
shouldnt have been provided to him
My Finance Club said that Mr Ws application was fully and appropriately assessed before 
being granted on 24th October 2020. It told us that before the loan was provided it gathered 
information about Mr Ws income, employment and expenses. It also carried out credit 
checks. 
Even before repayment was due, Mr W contacted My Finance Club to complain that the loan 
had been irresponsibly provided. My Finance Club rejected his complaint and invited Mr W 
to get in touch with a view to making suitable arrangements for him to repay the debt.  
Mr W contacted My Finance Club again when his repayment was around 5 days overdue. 
He asked for a payment holiday due to the Covid pandemic and said he had no income and 
couldnt pay. My Finance Club responded straightaway asking for details and more 
information. 
Mr W next contacted My Finance Club in the early part of December 2020 suggesting his 
circumstances had changed and he provided evidence showing he had received a Universal 
Credit payment. At Mr Ws request, My Finance Club set up a payment plan for Mr W to pay 
£10 per month for the next 6 months.
That payment arrangement was unsuccessful  My Finance Club said that Mr W made no 
repayments. Mr W contacted My Finance Club in April 2021 to say that although he hadnt 
been working he still planned to pay the £50 then owing under the payment arrangement but 
requested a further two weeks to do this. 
My Finance Club told us it set up a new payment arrangement to try and support Mr W, but 
as things stand, as far as I am aware, Mr W still hasnt made any payments to My Finance 
Club.
My Finance Club says that there is still an outstanding balance on the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loan wouldnt be affordable or that My Finance Club saw anything 
that shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend.
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators view. He mainly said that he was in financial difficulties, 
he had multiple loans and he was not working  so he doubts the validity of the wage check 
tool My Finance Club said it relied on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. So Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons.
My Finance Club  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a 
consumer. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether My Finance Club did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr W and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did My Finance Club complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
 Did My Finance Club act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before My Finance Club provided the loan to Mr W it gathered information about Mr Ws 
income and expenses and carried out a credit check. I note the comments Mr W has made 
about the checks but given this was his first loan and noting the size of the loan compared to 
his declared income, I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. 
My Finance Club has sent me its credit checks and I've looked through the information it 
gathered. My Finance Club saw that Mr W was spending some of his monthly income on paying for other credit (which it seems he hadnt declared). So My Finance Club made 
allowance for this when working out what he would be able to afford. But I dont think its 
credit checks revealed anything that wouldve caused a responsible lender to be concerned. 
On the figures My Finance Club worked with it looked like the loan repayment should be 
comfortably affordable for Mr W. And I havent seen anything in the credit checks that meant 
My Finance Club needed to carry out any further checking of the information it had received. 
The extent of his other credit wouldnt have looked excessive for someone in Mr Ws position 
and it looked like he was managing his accounts  there were no indications that he was 
having money problems and no serious black marks on his credit record. Looked at overall, 
I think it would have been fair for My Finance Club to have considered that Mr Ws credit 
report generally showed a positive credit history.
Despite what Mr W has said about his financial situation at the time, Im aware that different 
credit searches can show different results  so its possible that My Finance Clubs credit 
checks didnt necessarily show Mr Ws whole credit record. But thats not a reason for me to 
uphold the complaint.
I've also taken into account everything that Mr W has said in response to our adjudicators 
view  including his comments about the income check that My Finance Club told us it relied 
on. But I cant fairly say that My Finance Club shouldve realised that the information it was 
relying on, based on what Mr W had declared and what its own checks appeared to show, 
mightnt be reliable. So what hes said about this doesnt affect my view overall. 
Given the repayment amount, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances and his 
borrowing history at that time with My Finance Club, I think the checks were enough for My 
Finance Club to agree to provide this loan. So Im not upholding Mr Ws irresponsible lending 
complaint. 
As far as I can see, I think its fair to say that My Finance Club tried to work with Mr W when 
he complained about the loan and then asked for time to pay. I dont think I can fairly say 
that My Finance Club has acted in a way that isnt fair and reasonable. 
So I havent seen enough to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to award any redress. 
I expect My Finance Club to continue to work with Mr W and to treat him positively and 
sympathetically if he is continuing to experience financial difficulty.
I would encourage Mr W to provide details of his financial situation to My Finance Club if he 
still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Mr W would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mr W but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman