DRN-3801403
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has explained that he went abroad between 12 December 2020 and 21 December 
2020. And that whilst he was abroad, he lost his mobile phone. 
Because Mr S lost his mobile phone, and his travel insurance policy provided cover for 
mobile phones, he contacted his insurer to make a claim for his loss.
IPA considered Mr S claim and declined it. It said this was because Mr S had breached 
some terms of his policy. And in order for the claim to be paid, he wouldve needed to 
comply with these conditions.
The conditions were in relation to reporting the loss of the phone. IPA said the conditions 
were that:
Mr S needed to report the loss of the phone to the police within 24 hours of its loss, 
or as soon as possible. And he needed to provide written evidence of this reporting.
Mr S needed to inform his mobile phone network provider of the loss and provide 
evidence that it had blocked the phone number.
Mr S didnt think IPAs decision to decline the claim was fair. He said he hadnt been able to 
report the loss to the police in the country he was in.  Mr S said this was because the country 
he was in were under government regulations which restricted movement. Meaning he was 
unable to leave where he was staying to seek out a police station to make the report to it. 
In terms of the network provider, Mr S said when he was abroad he couldnt contact it, 
because he didnt have a phone to make the necessary call. And, when Mr S returned to the 
UK he was initially ill with Coronavirus. And when he did report the situation to the network 
provider, he had trouble with obtaining written evidence from then.
IPA maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr S referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They noted 
the conditions of the policy, and that these had been breached. As IPA had declined the 
claim in line with the breach in policy terms, they said IPA had acted fairly, and in line with 
the insurance policy itself.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that in order to comply with the conditions in the policy, he would 
have needed to break Coronavirus regulations abroad. And it couldnt be right for IPA to 
expect him to do this. In addition, Mr S said there wasnt a police station he was aware of at 
the airport. And so, he wasnt able to report the loss to the police then.
Because Mr S remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require IPA 
to do anything differently. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether IPA 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr S claim.
Ive reviewed Mr S policy documentation. And I can see that the policy does provide cover 
for the loss of a mobile phone. But, as is usual with insurance policies, there are conditions 
attached to this. In terms of mobile phone claims, the following is detailed:
SPECIAL CONDITIONS RELATING TO CLAIMS
1.You must report to the local Police in the country where the incident occurred within 
24 hours of discovery, or as soon as possible after that and get (at your own 
expense) a written report of the theft of your mobile phone.
2.You must contact your network provider as soon as possible and obtain written 
evidence of the phone number being blocked.
And under the general conditions of the policy it explains that IPA at its option may refuse to 
deal with a claim or reduce the amount of any claim payment if conditions such as reporting 
to the police, and obtaining a crime of loss report, including an incident number, arent 
complied with.
Mr S has confirmed he didnt report the loss to the police in line with the above policy 
condition. So, Im aware he has breached this. But Ive needed to go on to consider whether 
it was fair and reasonable for IPA to decline the claim as a result of this.
Mr S has said he wasnt able to report the loss to the police, because the country he lost the 
phone in, was in a lockdown as a result of Coronavirus. So, Mr S said it wasnt possible for 
him to find a police station to report the matter. And he said when going to the airport 
abroad, he couldnt see a police station to report the matter to.
Ive thought carefully about this, and whether this means it would be fair for IPA to depart 
from a strict application of the conditions, in this instance.
But I dont think it would be reasonable, in this case. I do understand Mr S said he was 
unable to report the loss, because of the regulations in the country at the time. But, looking 
at the regulations in the country for when Mr S lost the phone, I can see the regulations did 
allow the public to go out, and use facilities, other than during a curfew the early hours of the 
morning. So, I do think its likely Mr S would have been able to go and report the matter to 
the police, during the trip, or at the airport (there is a police station nearby), even if it took Mr 
S some time to find a police station in order to do this. Mr S could have complied with the 
condition  which is usual for policies of this nature. 
Alongside not reporting the information to the police, I havent seen any evidence that Mr S 
reported the loss of the phone to the network provider. Or that he provided written evidence that the phone number was blocked. Im aware provision of this information is also a 
condition of the policy. And so, has been breached. 
An insurer is entitled to validate a claim  asking for evidence in order to support this. And, in 
this instance, I consider it reasonable that IPA has taken the decision to decline the claim, as 
a breach of the policy conditions. It hasnt been provided with any of this evidence to validate 
the loss. So, I dont require IPA to do anything differently here.
IPA responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. Mr S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman