DRN-1549997
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaints about two PPI policies, the first having been sold in 1998. The second, a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), was sold in 2003. Both PPI policies were intended 
to protect Mr and Mrs Ls joint mortgage repayments if Mr L suffered disability or became 
unemployed.
TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life 
cover, and critical illness cover (CIC).
Mr and Mrs L complained about PPI, so Ive only looked at the sale of that element of the 
TMPP package in this decision, as well as the PPI sold in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant say for sure what Mr and Mrs L were or werent told by Halifaxs advisers in 1998 or 
2003. But I can see that Mr L signed for PPI separately when completing Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage application in 1998, at which time the paperwork made it clear the cover was 
optional. He also signed a separate PPI application form which set out the monthly benefit 
and premium for the cover chosen. 
The situation in 2003s less clear as Halifax no longer holds much of the paperwork from the 
time. But, from experience of how it sold PPI as part of its TMPP packages, I think it likely 
Mr and Mrs L were told the PPI was optional and would have agreed to it before it was 
added. 
From the available evidence, I think Mr and Mrs L were made aware they had a choice about 
taking out both PPI policies and decided to go ahead with them on that basis.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to check that it was right for 
them. I dont know if it did that but, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances in 1998 and 2003, I think it was. For example, Mr L was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by 
any of the main things it excluded or limited cover for.
Mr and Mrs L say Mr L would have received full sick pay from his employer. Weve asked for 
more information about this but received no response. So, we dont know how long hed 
have been paid for. In any event, the PPI would have paid out on top of that pay and for up 
to 12 months for each successful claim (and for up to 24 months regarding the policy sold in 
2003). The PPI covered unemployment too. 
Overall, I believe the PPI provided Mr and Mrs L with useful extra protection given the 
mortgage was a long-term financial commitment secured against their home. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as good as it 
should have been. But I think Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them either of the PPI policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman