DRN-3234293
The complaint
Mr F complains about Revolut Ltds decision to review and subsequently close his account.
What happened
Mr F held an account with Revolut. He said he registered for the account on a Hungarian 
website  Mr Fs account was, however, based in the UK.
In March 2020, Revolut asked Mr F for documentation to show his entitlement to funds which 
had been credited into his account. Mr F sent the documentation. 
Mr F says he upgraded his account to a premium service which he paid for monthly  and 
his account appeared to be fully operational. Mr F explained that in May 2020, Revolut 
asked for additional information and restricted his account.
In February 2021, Revolut told Mr F theyd be closing his account  but didnt tell him why. 
Revolut gave Mr F seven days to withdraw the money from the account. Mr F left £1 in the 
account, so it remained open while our service looked into things.
Mr F says the overall situation caused him severe distress and financial loss. He says it 
made his health condition deteriorate and he estimates his loss at between £10,000 - 
£15,000. Mr F also feels Revolut took advantage of him because they often communicated 
with him in English  which isnt his first language. 
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he thought 
that Revolut were entitled to restrict the account and ask Mr F for information to allow them 
to carry out a review. He was also satisfied that theyd complied with their terms and 
conditions when closing the account. And he thought it was reasonable Revolut 
communicated with Mr F in English as he held a UK account.
Mr F didnt agree. He raised detailed arguments, but in summary felt the documentation 
Revolut asked for was a breach of GDPR regulations as they involved other peoples data  
and its on this basis they blocked his account which he feels is unjust. Mr F has made 
particular reference to the EU legislation and rules on civil contracts. Mr F also explained 
that Revolut repeatedly lost his official documents and hasnt been able to explain their 
whereabouts  hes also concerned that Revolut gave him conflicting information by telling 
him he was free to use his account, and then informing him that notification was incorrect. 
Mr F is unhappy that Revolut didnt engage with the bank who sent the money to Mr Fs 
Revolut account in the first place as they would have carried out their own duty of care in 
relation to the money. Mr F also made our investigator aware that as Revolut provide 
services throughout Europe, it is subject to European trade rules.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr F has made a number of quite detailed arguments and made reference to 
the European trade rules and legislation. Like the investigator, Ive considered all of these 
arguments and comments, but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point 
that Mr F has made. I say that because Im required to determine Mr Fs complaint with 
minimum formality. So, Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do 
stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr F and Revolut have said before 
reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Revolut 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Fs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Revolut didnt tell Mr F about the review  but they dont have to. As part of their 
review, Revolut asked Mr F for detailed information about the money in his account and 
where it came from. I appreciate Mr F sent some documentation  but this wasnt accepted 
by Revolut. Mr F also feels Revolut has breached GDPR regulations by asking him to send 
personal information relating to other peoples data. I appreciate Mr F feels very strongly 
about this point  and Im sorry hes found himself in this position with Revolut. However, 
Revolut asked Mr F for information about where the money in his account came from  Im 
satisfied they were entitled to do that under their obligations, and having reviewed the full 
circumstances of this complaint, I feel their questions were wholly appropriate. Because of 
that, while I recognise Mr Fs upset around this, I cant fairly conclude Revolut acted 
inappropriately.
Ive thought about Mr Fs comments relating to his account not being blocked when he was 
paying for a premium service. Mr F has also gone on to say he continued to pay for the 
account monthly fee, despite him not being able to use it. I havent seen any evidence to 
show that this money hasnt been returned to Mr F, and therefore I cant fairly uphold his 
complaint on this point alone. I do, however, want to make comment that Revolut are entitled 
to review an account at any time  and as often as they like. Revolut has shared information 
with our service to explain their reasons for carrying out the review. Im sorry I cant share 
more details with Mr F, but Id like to reassure him that Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Revoluts actions werent appropriate in the circumstances.
Im also aware that the block applied to Mr Fs account allowed him to continue to make card 
payments, exchange currencies, withdraw cash and transfer funds. The restriction meant 
Mr F couldnt make further top-ups to the account. I appreciate Mr F feels if he couldnt make 
top-ups, he couldnt use his account in the way hed like to. But that doesnt mean Revoluts 
actions were unfair. They asked questions surrounding the source of funds in his account  
and prevented further funds from entering the account until they were satisfied where they 
came from. Mr F wasnt able to provide Revolut with the satisfactory evidence they required, 
and so they made the decision to end the banking relationship.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr F decided to stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. Revolut 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion unless 
we think theyve acted unfairly. I appreciate Mr F feels the relationship he had with Revolut 
cant be classed as a civil contract. He doesnt think theyre entitled to close it in the way 
they did. But I disagree. Revolut have relied on, and complied with, the terms and conditions 
when closing Mr Fs account and Ive seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair 
decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. 
Mr F feels Revolut should have always communicated with him in his native language  
rather than English. I can understand why Mr F may have felt at a disadvantage to receive 
important communication in a language hes not entirely confident in. But this doesnt mean 
Revolut have done anything wrong. Mr F opened his account and was aware it would 
operate in the UK. I dont think its reasonable to assume Revolut should communicate in a 
different way if they werent made aware of any limitations to Mr Fs language. I agree it 
would have been better customer service if they wrote to Mr F in a language he was more 
confident in  but this doesnt mean their actions overall were wrong.
Overall, Revolut were entitled to review, block and subsequently close Mr Fs account. They 
asked for information to be provided to them relating to money paid into the account  and it 
is Revoluts duty to ensure their customers money is protected. As Revolut wasnt satisfied 
with the information Mr F provided, they decided to close the account and did so while 
complying with the terms and conditions. Im sorry Mr F is left in the position he finds himself 
in  and Im sorry to hear of the impact he says this overall situation had on him. But in order 
to uphold his complaint and ask Revolut to do something to put things right, Id need to be 
satisfied they did something wrong. And having considered everything, I cant reasonably 
say they did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman