DRN-2810535
The complaint
Ms L complains about what happened when she agreed a revised repayment plan for her 
loan with TSB Bank plc.
What happened
Ms L said that shed taken out a loan with TSB in summer 2017. She took out a credit card
at the same time, and was encouraged to apply for an overdraft. She said that shes realised
since then that this lending was unaffordable for her.
Ms L said she got into financial difficulties when her hours at work were reduced and her
living costs went up. So she agreed with TSB in July 2018 that she could make reduced
payments to the loan. Her loan statement shows these started in August 2018.
Ms L has told us about a considerable number of problems with the reduced payments she
was making. TSB has, on more than one occasion, reverted to taking the full amount for her
loan. Ms L couldnt afford this. She said it meant she couldnt afford to pay for transport to
work, and meant she couldnt pay her rent on time. This contributed to her being made
homeless.
Ms L also said that she was told by TSB to pay at a particular time of the month, a couple of
days after the 26th, but this appears to have repeatedly broken her payment plan. Ms L has
needed to redo income and expenditure details frequently.
In April 2019 she had a meeting with TSB. She said there was no support offered, and a
number of inappropriate comments were made.
Ms L said she continued to pay. She paid when she understood the payment was due each
month, although she accepted she had paid late in June 2019 due to illness. Payment wasnt 
made until 2 July, outside the week she has to pay. Ms L said she hadnt been able to talk to 
anyone about this. She complained, and was paid compensation, but the cheque didnt 
clear.
Ms L said that she tried to set up a direct debit, and was told that it would be in place for
October 2019. She made a manual payment in late September. Then TSB wanted her to go
through her income and expenditure yet again. It called twice to ask for this information, and
Ms L said no, because each time it called she was on public transport.
Ms L said she then got a text message on 11 November from the collection agents, saying
that they were trying to contact her urgently. She called the agents on 20 November, and
they said the account had defaulted.
Ms L wanted the default removed.
Ms L wanted us to take all of the incidents which Ive briefly summarised above, into account
when we are considering her current complaint. Her complaint has, since then, focussed on
the default which is on her credit file, and other damage to her credit file apparently caused
by the repayments she has now started to make.
TSB said that Ms Ls account was in arrears, to such an extent that it would always have
defaulted. It sent Ms L a letter of default on 10 October 2019, and then defaulted the loan.
TSB has maintained that it behaved appropriately when it did this.
Our investigator didnt think TSB had acted fairly. She said that payment plans are only
supposed to be a short-term support, but Ms L had been on payment plans for so long
because of repeated mistakes by TSB. And Ms L was in a position to repay the loan balance
and the arrears from August 2019. She had the disposable income to do this and TSB
agreed this was affordable for her. So our investigator thought that if TSB had done more in
August 2019 when it agreed a plan with Ms L, after it acknowledged it had made a mistake
in its August 2019 final response letter, then the plan wouldnt have failed.
Because she thought it was TSBs fault that the plan failed, and the account was then
defaulted, our investigator said TSB should remove the default and any markers being
reported to the credit reference agencies, rewind to August 2019 and set up a payment plan.
And she said it should also pay Ms L £150 compensation for the distress caused.
TSB didnt agree. It said that it didnt believe that it had ever told Ms L to make payments
after the due date, and even if it had, it wouldve corrected that in February 2019. TSB said
that it didnt think Ms L was unhappy about calling to make a payment, because shed never
asked about another way to pay. And TSB disputed that Ms L had rung it, as she said, to
make a manual payment 30 September. TSB said it couldnt find this call.
TSB stressed that Ms L had made no payments to the loan since the default, and if shed
been doing that, the default wouldve been satisfied by now. TSB appears to have placed a
great deal of weight on this.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that the crux of the matter was events
from August 2019 onwards. Within the complaint response letter dated 2 August 2019, TSB
acknowledged it had told Ms L to make payments after the 26th of the month. Although TSB
was now saying it had got this final response wrong, that wouldnt change the agreement in
place to set up a plan in August.
Our investigator still thought that Ms L had made a call in September, as shed said.
Although TSB said it couldnt find any such call, our investigator felt that Ms L had already
been given conflicting information a number of times, so she thought it was more likely that
there was a call.
When another plan was set up in October 2019 TSBs contact notes show Ms L called
trying to make a payment on 26 October 2019  which was a Saturday. Our investigator said
she could see from the account statement a payment reached the account on 28 October
2019. There are further notes that show TSB tried calling Ms L and couldnt reach her but
say to give Ms L another PP (payment plan). But the account defaulted and was transferred
to recoveries.
Considering the mistakes by TSB, and the anxiety this was causing Ms L, our investigator
still thought TSB shouldve provided more support in August. She commented on a call in
October 2019, when Ms L was clearly extremely distressed, and the advisor wasnt
sympathetic to her circumstances. Our investigator noted that the 2018 complaint notes
showed that Ms L had made TSB aware of this.
Our investigator still wanted TSB to remove the default and any markers being reported to
the credit reference agencies, rewind to August 2019 and set up a payment plan and agreewith Ms L a suitable payment option. And she wanted it to pay £150 compensation for the
distress caused.
There was then a considerable amount of discussion about the appropriate way to resolve
this complaint. Ms L set up a standing order which started in late December 2020, and she
said that she was still being impacted by TSBs refusal to remove the default from her credit
file. TSB then said it would remove the default, but it would have to do so manually each
month. So the default would show again, and TSB would then ask for it to be removed, each
month while Ms L was paying off the debt. TSB wanted to stress that it wouldnt remove late
payments showing on the account up to August 2019.
A route forward seemed to be agreed, but Ms L said no account had been given for the
compensation payment of £150 which was supposed to be taken off her debt. TSB then said
that, although it had earlier agreed to pay this, it had done so on a different basis. And if it
was taking the default off again each month for Ms L, it wouldnt pay the compensation too.
Ms L said that although the default was removed, her credit file showed missed payments for
this loan from September 2018 to December 2020. She sent us evidence of this.
This complaint then came to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying that I think it ought to have been clear to TSB that Ms L met 
the FCAs definition of a vulnerable customer. She had told it she suffered from 
anxiety, and we know that during the course of paying off this loan, she became 
homeless. Ms L told us she found dealing with her repayments, and the frequent 
resetting of her plan, extremely stressful. I can hear that she became noticeably 
distressed on the call she had with TSB in October.
TSB has placed a considerable amount of weight, when its assessed this case, on 
Ms L not having made payments to this debt since it was defaulted in October 2019. I 
think that, in doing so, its failed to take account of the distress that, by this time, 
contacting TSB was causing Ms L, and to allow for how much of that distress is a 
result of previous mistakes.
TSB has argued that Ms L didnt have a substantive telephone discussion with it in
September 2019. It says that our investigator accepted she did, without any evidence 
of this.
But Ms L has pointed out that she had made a payment on her loan on that date, 
which shows on her statement. It does seem likely that she rang to make this 
payment. And indeed, TSB has part of a call recording, where shes being passed 
through to someone to make a payment. TSB says that the call mustve cut, because 
it doesnt have the rest of the call. I think thats a less likely explanation than TSB 
simply not being able to find the rest of the recording.
Like our investigator, it does seem to me that Ms L was in a position to pay off this 
debt, starting in August 2019. But I dont think thats whats key here. Ive listened 
carefully to the call when that plan was set up, and Ms L was told to make her 
manual payment on 26 September. She was told not to miss a payment, otherwise 
this plan would break.I know there is some dispute over whether Ms L was previously told to pay a couple 
of days after her due date. TSB has previously accepted that it said this, and now 
says it didnt. But whatever the truth of that, I think that TSB had realised at this point 
that Ms L had understood this is what TSB wanted  for her to pay a couple of days 
after the 26th.
It looks like TSB had tried to tell Ms L, in its August 2019 letter, that any advice it may
previously have given her to pay a couple of days after the due date was wrong. I do 
think it wouldve been helpful if TSB had been rather clearer about this in the letter.
But we do know Ms L needed to pay on her due date, which was 26 September. And 
Ms L has never suggested she paid before 30 September.
For those reasons, I dont think its solely TSBs fault if the August plan broke. Ms L 
says that the payment was made, but it appears most likely, from the information I 
have seen, that this was made late.
Ive also listened carefully to the call that Ms L had with TSB on 3 October. I think its 
at this point that things went wrong.
A further plan was set up at that time, and Ms L was told that the debt would be paid 
off in five months. TSB didnt warn Ms L that her account was close to default on this 
call. I dont know if the call handler was aware of this.
TSB knows it needs to send Ms L a letter, if its going to default her account. But I 
think we need to consider the purpose of this letter, which is to warn the recipient 
about the very serious consequences of failing to pay, and to give them a last chance 
to pay off their debt.
Ms L was sent letters. But she didnt get any warning about the default. Shes told us 
that she was homeless, and her mail was going to a care-of address. So she didnt 
have daily access to her mail. I understand that shed asked TSB to send 
correspondence by email. But the default letters were sent to her by post, and not 
also sent by email.
Because Ms L apparently had no other warning of the default, and because TSB 
shouldve realised this, I think that if TSB was considering defaulting her account 
within a matter of days, it ought to have told her so on the October call. I know that 
this call was ended early, but TSB had made no mention of this, and the call simply 
isnt consistent with a default being applied very shortly after this.
I think it was unfair for TSB to default Ms Ls account on 29 October 2019.
TSB has pointed out that the loan was considerably in arrears at this stage, so it 
appears that TSB thinks a default was an appropriate step. Setting aside the point 
that a default without warning will always be more difficult to justify, I also think that 
we have to bear in mind that the position of Ms Ls loan had built up over a 
considerable time, including times when TSB attempted to take full payment for Ms 
Ls loan despite having already agreed a reduced payment, and having received that 
reduced payment for the relevant month. I think a degree of forbearance would have 
been appropriate, especially as Ms L had generally continued to pay regularly, and 
was then in a position to resume larger payments to clear her debt.
Importantly, I think its also clear from the October call that Ms L had understood she 
needed to make payments on the 26th of each month, and she was going to do 
exactly that. Ms L appears to have then made the first payment under the plan agreed on that call. And she has also shown us she had the funds to clear her loan at 
that time.
So I think if Ms Ls loan hadnt been defaulted, it wouldve been paid off under the 
plan discussed on the October call, and wouldve been cleared after five instalments, 
so by 26 February 2020.
Ms L started to make payments again to this debt in late December 2020. I 
understand that her loan has now been paid off. The resolution below is proposed on 
this basis.
The latest information we have from Ms L about her credit file predates her loan 
being paid off. Ms L told us that while she was paying the debt off, the default 
periodically reappeared on her account. TSB says it was asking for this to be 
removed again each month, and this is consistent with what Ms L says about the 
significant variations in her credit score during this time.
If Ms L has now paid this debt, then I would expect that TSB will now have removed 
the default from Ms Ls credit file. If it hasnt, it should do that now. And if she still has 
missed payments between September 2018 and December 2020, then I think TSB 
needs to amend those.
Whilst TSB now says that it made a mistake about this, it did accept in August 2019 
that it had told Ms L she should pay after her due date. Ms L complained then about 
her plan breaking. Shes complaining now about the impact this loan has had on her 
credit file, and she says it didnt previously show missed payments from September 
2018 to December 2020.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Ms Ls credit file to show missed payments 
from September 2018 to December 2020 (and for the avoidance of doubt, I dont 
think TSBs previous complaint response letter dealt with this issue).
TSB has been clear that it didnt wish to make changes to Ms Ls credit file entries up 
to August 2019. But the current position doesnt seem to me to be right. The 
September 2018 to December 2020 time period includes a number of payments 
which were only a couple of days late, as well as payments made on time. And it also 
includes a considerable amount of time after Ms Ls account had been defaulted.
The current position of Ms Ls credit file also doesnt seem to reflect what TSB told us 
in September 2020 that it had reported to credit reference agencies. So I think 
something has gone wrong here, and it appears to have gone wrong when Ms L 
started to pay back this debt.
I think that amendment to Ms Ls credit file is needed, and this amendment must 
predate August 2019, because some of the entries before then do seem to be simply 
wrong. Bearing in mind the confusion over when payments were due, and that I think 
TSB ought to make some allowance for Ms Ls circumstances during this time, I think 
its appropriate for TSB to show the payments Ms L made from August 2018 as on 
time where they cleared within the right calendar month. Although Ms L was 
homeless through most of this time, the great majority of the payments which were 
due on the 26th of each month were still made and cleared in the right calendar 
month, and at the time Ms L had understood they were due.
When no payment was made, TSB can of course show a missed payment. And whenpayment didnt clear until the following calendar month, TSB can show a late 
payment.
From October 2019, however, TSB should amend Ms Ls credit file, to show 
payments made on time until February 2020, when the loan should show as paid in 
full. The loan should not show any default. Thats because that is what I think 
wouldve happened then if TSB hadnt defaulted Ms Ls loan at this stage.
I also think its appropriate for TSB to pay Ms L compensation in this case. Our 
investigator suggested a payment of £150, but she suggested that on the basis of a 
rather different resolution of this case.
I have to bear in mind what has also happened since this complaint was made, 
including that Ms Ls credit file has been affected for a significant time. She has told 
us how this has impacted her.
TSB has told us it wasnt able to stop the default from recurring on Ms Ls credit file 
each month while she was paying this debt off. So each month it showed as a fresh 
default, and remained on her file until it was manually removed. Whilst this may not 
have been deliberate on TSBs part, it did have a significant impact on Ms L. And any 
lack of flexibility in TSBs credit file reporting isnt Ms Ls fault. Because of that, and 
also because I dont think that this account shouldve been defaulted, I do think that it 
is appropriate to take this into account, as part of what has happened since.
For those reasons, I think that TSB should pay Ms L £350 now, as well as making the
changes to her credit file Ive outlined above.
Before I close, I should say that this complaint has focussed on the resolution of the
outstanding loan, and the effect this was having on Ms Ls credit file. Thats 
understandable, as this is the immediate problem Ms L has been dealing with in her 
daily life. But when Ms L first complained to us, she also said that she thought all the 
lending made to her, when she took out this loan, was unaffordable. Our service can 
look into that complaint for her, if she would like. If Ms L wants us to do this, well 
take that forward separately, so as not to delay the resolution of the problems Im 
dealing with here.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ms L replied to accept my provisional decision, and to let us know she wanted us to look at 
her complaint about unaffordable lending. Well take that forward for her separately. TSB 
sent a substantive reply objecting to my decision. Ill deal with that below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number of the points that TSB has raised now were also considered in my provisional 
decision, so where the issue has already been covered, I wont repeat in full what Ive said 
already but will refer to my earlier reasoning.
TSB noted Id said I thought its agent shouldve told Ms L in the call on 3 October, if the 
account was about to default. TSB said its agent wouldnt have known when this would 
happen. It just said it thought the agent wouldve said something similar to what was said in 
the call on 29 August, if the call had not ended prematurely. TSB noted that on 29 August the agent explained what would happen if the payment wasnt 
made on 26 September. And it said Ms L doesnt dispute that she didnt make the payment 
on the correct date, so even if she hadnt collected the default letter from her mailing 
address, she was on notice that the account could transfer to recoveries if the payment was 
missed.
I think that putting Ms L on notice that her account could transfer to recoveries is rather 
different than ensuring she receives the required warning about an upcoming default. I set 
out in my provisional decision why a warning like this is so important. And I still think that the 
call on 3 October simply isnt consistent with a default being applied very shortly after this. 
I note that TSB says that the call handler who spoke to Ms L on 3 October wouldnt have 
been aware that her loan was about to default. I dont know why an agent of TSB who rang 
Ms L about her loan wasnt properly informed about the position of that loan. TSB hasnt 
explained that. 
TSB said the normal monthly instalment for Ms Ls loan was £342.14. From August 2018 it 
had agreed to accept lower repayments. This was an arrangement to pay and that is what 
TSB understood had been recorded on Ms Ls credit file. As TSB felt this was a true 
reflection of the situation, it wanted me to agree that it could continue to record that 
information until August 2019. 
And TSB said the plan set up in August 2019 was still for less than the expected monthly 
payment, so it was still an arrangement to pay. So TSB said an arrangement to pay was 
therefore still appropriate for Ms Ls credit file after August 2019.
TSB noted I felt Ms L would have been able to pay if the account hadnt defaulted, but it 
thought the evidence suggested otherwise. So TSB said it didnt think it was appropriate to 
mark the debt as satisfied a year before it was repaid.
TSB also said that it acknowledged that Id said the credit file was currently recording 
incorrect information, but it said that it was correct until it made the recent amendments. TSB 
said I would appreciate that it is legally obliged to record accurate information. TSB said that 
it would be out of line with the usual decisions from our service to put the customer in a 
better position than they would have been if nothing had gone wrong.
I note the strength of TSBs view on this, and indeed on this case as a whole. But, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I have reached a rather different view. 
TSB set up an arrangement to pay for Ms L in August 2018. But what it has most recently 
recorded on her credit file is missed payment markers for every month from September 2018 
onwards. That doesnt seem to me to be consistent with what happened on this account, or 
indeed with the duty TSB considers its under to record accurate information on Ms Ls file. 
I have taken into account the history of this loan, and reached the view that the fair outcome 
here is to amend Ms Ls credit file in the way I suggested. An amendment along the lines 
that TSB suggests would penalise Ms L for the mistakes that TSB has made, and for the 
effect these mistakes have had on Ms L, which in my view have prolonged the time it has 
taken for this debt to be cleared. Those mistakes include TSB agreeing to take a smaller 
amount for monthly payments, but then repeatedly taking the original amount, which Ms L 
says resulted in her becoming homeless.
Im not able to say how long Ms L wouldve been in an arrangement if none of these 
mistakes had been made, and none of the wider effects on Ms Ls personal life had 
occurred. Rather, as a reflection of the very considerable efforts Ms L has made to keep up her payments, including whilst she was also dealing with homelessness, Ive reached the 
view that the fairest outcome is simply to amend as Ive suggested. 
I note that TSB says it doesnt accept Ms L was able to pay this debt in October 2019. I 
appreciate that it has reached its own view on the evidence it has seen. But I said in my 
provisional decision that Im satisfied, from evidence that Ms L has shown us, that its most 
likely she was in a position to pay off the loan with payments from October 2019. Thats why 
I thought this loan should be shown as cleared then. I still think that.
TSB wanted to clarify that the issues Id outlined at the beginning of the decision had been 
dealt with under separate complaints, and it felt that Ms L had been compensated 
accordingly. TSB said Ms L raised seven other complaints and it had paid a total of £833.14. 
So TSB wanted me to reconsider the award of redress without any of the previous issues.
I know that TSB has paid Ms L a considerable amount of compensation over the course of 
the arrangement on her loan. I understand that to be a reflection of the considerable number 
of mistakes it has previously made in managing this loan. 
Im not clear why TSB thinks that the compensation Ive said it should pay now also covers 
these earlier issues. But for the avoidance of doubt, it doesnt. The compensation Ive 
suggested reflects both my understanding of Ms Ls current complaint, and from the 
additional things that have gone wrong since Ms L complained. 
Finally, TSB said that whilst it acknowledged Ms Ls situation, she was still employed and 
could have made payments whilst the complaint was ongoing. This would have mitigated the 
position and the debt would have been cleared as she expected. 
I addressed this point in my provisional decision, and explained that I didnt think TSB had 
taken into account the effect that its considerable number of mistakes had on Ms L. I said 
then that I had listened to the latest call we have, and noted how distressed she was just by 
contact with TSB. So I felt TSB bore some responsibility for Ms L not having proactively 
contacted it again to pay this debt, before our service was able to intervene. I havent 
changed my mind about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc must make the changes to Ms Ls credit file that I 
have set out in my decision above, and to pay Ms L £350 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman