DRN-2304702
The complaint
Mr M complains that J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services Limited (JPM) sold his 
investment trust below the market price.
What happened
Mr M held an investment trust in an investment account with JPM. In 2019 JPM told Mr M it 
would no longer be offering the investment account service and that it was being transferred 
to another provider. Mr M had the option to transfer his account to another provider or to sell 
his investments. JPM received Mr Ms instructions to sell his investment trust on 13 July (a 
Saturday).
The investment trust was sold on Monday 15 July and dealt at 853p. Mr M says the closing 
price on Friday 12 July was 857.5p and the closing price on Monday 15 July was 857.5p. 
And he says that there were two on-market trades on 15th July at 864.55p and 862.5p. He 
says he didnt agree to his shares being sold off market.
J P Morgan said it placed the deal in line with its terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the shares had been sold in line with the agreed terms and conditions. He said the terms 
explained deals would be aggregated and that a lower price might be achieved than trading 
through a regulated market.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He reasonably expected his sale to take place at the market price, whether it was 
aggregated with other deals or not.
JPM failed to highlight to him  either through its Key Changes document or in its letter 
asking for instructions - that it would trade off market. 
When he complained, JPM told him that deals are placed at a calculated valuation point 
each day, as laid out in our terms and conditions. But he says this applies to funds, not 
investment trusts.
JPMs order execution policy says that it will get him the best possible result. But it failed 
to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont conclude that this complaint should be upheld. And Ill explain my 
reasons why. 
But firstly I want to address JPMs comments about the sale being carried out at a valuation 
point, because I think this has led to some confusion. As Mr M rightly points out, valuation 
points apply for trades in unit trusts. This complaint is about the sale of an investment trust, 
so valuation points dont apply. 
JPM has explained that, for investment trusts, dealing instructions are aggregated and there 
is an approximate time each day for placing the aggregated deals. It referred to this as a 
valuation point which it accepts isnt technically correct and it has apologised for the 
confusion caused.
Likewise there has been some confusion about whether this was an on or off market 
transaction. JPM has clarified that it instructed its chosen broker to sell Mr Ms shares as 
part of an aggregated order and that this was not an off market transaction.
I find Mr Ms instruction was carried out in accordance with JPMs terms and conditions and 
that it has treated Mr M fairly. I say this because:
JPM received Mr Ms instructions on 13 July. Its terms and conditions explain when orders 
will be dealt:
Instructions to deal in Investment Trust shares received before 12.00 noon are placed by 
the end of the same Business Day. Instructions received after 12.00 noon will be dealt on 
the following Business Day. (11.18)
Mr Ms instructions were received before 12.00 noon on 15 July and the order was placed at 
3.07pm the same day. So I dont find there was any delay in placing the deal, bearing in 
mind it was aggregated.
Mr Ms sale was aggregated with other sale instructions and itss possible that a lower price 
was achieved than if his sale had been carried out separately.
The terms and conditions say that all sale instructions for investment trusts will be 
aggregated. And they say:
You should be aware that on some occasions aggregation may result in a more or less 
favourable price than would have been achieved had the instructions been carried out 
separately. (11.17)
JPMs order execution policy sets out that its procedures have been put in place ..to ensure 
we get the best possible result for you. And it has told us that it regularly reviews trades to 
ensure best execution is being obtained. Im not persuaded, based on the information that 
Ive seen, that best execution wasnt obtained on this occasion.
Finally I note that all dealing charges were waived for this transaction because of JPMs 
decision to end its investment account service. I consider this to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman