DRN-4172849
The complaint
Mr S complains Assurant General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under his 
gadget insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
 Mr S has a gadget insurance policy to cover his mobile phone for, amongst other 
things, theft. The policy is underwritten by Assurant.
 He made a claim on the policy when his phone was taken from his jacket pocket 
whilst in a coffee shop. He said hed left his jacket  with his phone inside it  on his 
chair when he went to use the bathroom.
 Assurant declined the claim. It said Mr S had left his phone unattended. And so, he 
hadnt taken reasonable care of it  as required under the policy.
 Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said hed taken reasonable care by concealing his 
phone in his pocket out of sight, as many people do at the coffee shop. He goes 
there regularly and this has never happened before.
 Our investigator said Assurant had acted fairly. She thought leaving the jacket and 
phone unattended in a public place amounted to a lack of reasonable care.
 The policy term Assurant has relied on says:
If you dont take care of your gadget then we may not pay your claim. Taking 
care of your gadget means  
Not knowingly leaving your gadget somewhere it is likely to be lost, 
stolen or damaged []
If you need to leave your gadget somewhere then we expect you to 
lock it away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away 
then you must leave it with someone you trust or concealed out of 
sight in a safe place [] 
If we believe you have not taken care of your gadget, and have 
knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline your claim.
 In other words, Assurant is entitled to decline a claim if Mr S hasnt taken reasonable 
care, bearing in mind the points noted above.
 Ive listened to the call Mr S had with Assurant about the circumstances of the loss. 
When asked what happened Mr S says he left his phone in his jacket on his seat 
whilst he visited the coffee shops bathroom.
 The call handler asks if anyone else was sat at the table whilst Mr S went to the 
bathroom. Mr S confirms there wasnt. He also reiterated this in later testimony to this 
Service. So, Im in no doubt Mr Ss phone was left unattended inside his jacket.
 Even if the phone wasnt visible, it was easily accessible given it was in Mr Ss jacket 
pocket, unattended and in a public place. So, Im not persuaded it was concealed in a 
safe place as required by policy.
 Overall, I consider Mr S knowingly took a risk by leaving his phone unattended. So 
Im satisfied that Assurants decision to decline his claim is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman