DRN-2742074
The complaint
Mr K complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited recorded adverse information on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with BMWFS. In 
September 2019 Mr Ks car was stolen and later written off.
Mr Ks insurance company paid a settlement but this left a shortfall under the agreement. Mr 
K contacted BMWFS to set up a payment arrangement to clear the balance.
Mr K says that he agreed with BMWFS that it would call him every month to take a payment.
BMWFS says it tried to contact Mr K in November 2019 but was unbale to reach him. Later 
in November 2019 Mr K contacted BMWFS and said he would make payments in December 
and January, which BMWFS agreed.
No payments were made in December or January, so BMWFS recorded missed payments 
on Mr Ks credit file and wrote to him with a notice of arrears.
Mr K says he didnt receive the letter, but he made a payment to BMWFS in February 2020.
Mr K complained to BMWFS in August 2020. He was unhappy that the missed payments 
had been recorder on his credit file and said BMWFS should have contacted him first so he 
could make the payments.
In response, BMWFS said that Mr K hadnt made payments under the payment arrangement 
and that the arrears had been reported correctly.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
whether BMWFS had agreed to call Mr K to take a payment. The investigator said he was 
satisfied that Mr K was aware that he needed to make payments in December and January, 
and that BMWFS hadnt acted incorrectly in reporting these missed payments when they 
werent made.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that BMWFS had agreed to call him to take payments and that it 
had failed to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr K feels very strongly about what he says was agreed with BMWFS. He 
says that following his partial payment in September 2019, he contacted BMWFS on 2 
October 2019 and agreed a payment plan. He says it was agreed that BMWFS would call 
him to take payment each month.
BMWFS hasnt been able to provide a call recording of this call. So, Im unable to say 
exactly what was discussed and agreed. Ive taken what Mr K has said into account but 
ultimately, and whether or not BMWFS agreed to call Mr K to take payment, Im satisfied that 
Mr K was aware that he needed to make these payments. So, even if BMWFS had agreed to 
call Mr K, I would still have expected Mr K to take steps to make the payment.
I can see that BMWFS tried to call Mr K in November 2019. It also emailed him. It says that it 
did this because Mr k hadnt made a payment in October 2019 as he had agreed to do. Ive 
thought about whether the call supports Mr Ks point that BMWFS had agreed to call him to 
take payments. But even if thats right, BMWFS wasnt able to make contact with Mr K when 
it called, so it wouldnt have made a difference to whether Mr K made a payment or not.
I can see that Mr K contacted BMWFS in late November 2019. Theres a recording of this 
call which Ive listened to. During the call, Mr K explains why he hasnt made any payments, 
and he asks for a new payment arrangement, which BMWFS agreed to. Theres nothing in 
the call to suggest that BMWFS agreed to call Mr K to take payments going forwards. 
Further, its clear from the call that Mr K was aware that he needed to make payments in 
December and January.
Mr K didnt make any payments in December or January. Because of this, Im satisfied that 
BMWFS acted fairly in reporting missed payments and sending a notice of arrears.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that Mr K 
was aware that he needed to make payments in line with the payment arrangement and 
because these payments werent made, I cant say that BMWFS acted unfairly in reporting 
the missed payments.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman