DRN-4103480
The complaint
Miss N and Mr S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed their account without notice 
and they had to incur costs to try to get their money transferred. they say Barclays didnt 
provide the service it should have while they were trying to resolve this issue.
What happened
Miss N and Mr S had a joint bank account with Barclays. In September 2019, they moved 
overseas and informed Barclays of their new contact details. They say they have received 
new debit cards to their new address and continued to use Barclays banking services. They 
say the last time they made a payment through their account was in September 2022 and 
then on 31 October 2022, after an unsuccessful attempt to reach online banking, they called 
Barclays and were told their account had been closed. They were told the only way to 
reclaim their funds was to write to the banks dormancy team which they did. As they didnt 
receive a timely response, they raised a complaint. They then called the bank several times 
about their complaint but got different answers. They were then told that writing to the 
dormancy team wasnt the correct route to get their money and instead they needed to 
complete an online form. They say there were further delays and they had to incur costs 
getting documents verified. 
Barclays issued a final response letter dated 17January 2023. It apologised for the time 
taken to reach a resolution in regard to the funds in the account and said the money would 
be transferred to the account that Miss N and Mr S had provided details for. Because of the 
delay it said it would also pay £200 compensation into the designated account. In response 
to comments that notification of account closure wasnt provided, Barclays said it wrote to 
Mr S on 10 March 2022 to say that as his address was outside of the European Economic 
Area it was no longer able to service the account. On 8 June 2022, it wrote to request he 
withdraw the funds in the account by 24 September 2022 then a further letter was sent 
asking for action to be taken and that the account would close on 2 October 2022. It said the 
letters were sent through its online portal in line with the preferences on the account. 
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He said that Barclays was within its rights to 
close the account and needed documents to confirm the money was being sent to the 
correct place. He thought adequate notice had been given of the closure but though the time 
involved in the reclaim of funds was too long. Because of this he recommended a further 
£100 compensation be paid (bringing the total compensation to £300).
Barclays accepted out investigators view. Miss N and Mr S didnt. They said they hadnt 
complained that the bank had closed their account incorrectly but instead that it didnt inform 
them of its intention to close the account. It said this meant they had to incur considerable 
costs to resolve the situation. They noted the comments about letters being sent but said 
these werent received. They said Barclays had their address and contact details and so 
when a response wasnt received to the letters on the online portal it should have contacted 
them through another route. They said the complaint wasnt that documents were needed to 
verify their detail but that they had to make several calls, were given wrong advice and not 
given the service they should have received when trying to resolve the issues. They didnt 
think the compensation recommended was enough and wanted all their costs refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss N and Mr S are frustrated by the experience they have had in regard 
to their account closure. They have explained that they werent aware their joint account was 
being closed until after this had happened. And this meant they couldnt take action to move 
their money before the account closure and instead had to go through the process of 
resolving this after the account closure.
Barclays has explained the reason for the account closure, and this hasnt been disputed as 
part of this complaint. In regard to the notice given, Barclays has provided a copy of the 
letter dated 10 March 2022, which explains why the account was being closed and the 
actions that needed to be taken. The letter explains that the account balance will need to be 
brought to zero by 24 September 2022. A reminder notice was sent dated 8 June 2022 and 
a final reminder sent dated 7 September 2022. 
I have looked at the dispatch details for these letters and they were uploaded to the secure 
online banking facility. I understand that Mr S has said they didnt know these documents 
were there and didnt open them so werent aware of the contents. While I do not dispute 
this, as the customer preferences for both Miss N and Mr S were set to receive letters 
through the online portal, I cannot say that Barclays did anything wrong by dispatching the 
letters in this way. Barclays has explained that automated emails are sent to customers 
when a letter has been delivered to the online secure portal and if a bounce back notification 
is received then the letter will be sent by post. While I note Mr Ss comment that they didnt 
receive emails or other notifications, based on the information provided I find, on balance, 
that that Barclays did provide adequate notice of the account closure.
Mr S contacted Barclays on 31 October 2022 and say it took three calls before he was told 
the account had been closed. He was then given the account dormancy address which he 
was told he would need to write to. He confirmed this on a further call. After writing this letter 
and sending to the relevant team he discovered that the correct route to reclaim funds when 
an account has been closed was to use an online form. I can understand why Miss N and 
Mr S were annoyed at being given incorrect advice and that they had to spend time writing 
the letter and on calls. 
Mr S then submitted his claim and while I understand he isnt complaining about the 
documents needed for verification, but that he incurred costs through this process as he 
wasnt able to transfer the funds before the account was closed, as I find that Barclays 
provided adequate notice of the account closure, I do not find it is responsible for the costs 
Mr S incurred.
I do agree that there were delays in the refund being processed. Part of the delay was due to 
the account that was closed being a joint account for Miss N and Mr S and Barclays 
therefore needing the joint parties to complete the form. This issue was resolved. But part of 
the delay was due to the incorrect information Mr S had been provided with when he started 
the process. The reclaim was completed successfully on 20 January 2023.
Overall, I do not find that Barclays did anything wrong in regard to the closure of the account. 
But there were then issues with the service provided. In respect to this, Barclays paid £200 
compensation and has agreed to our investigators recommendation of a further £100. 
Having considered all aspects of this complaint I find this a reasonable resolution.Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should, as it has agreed, pay a further £100 compensation 
(additional to the £200 already paid) for the delay and issues involved in Miss N and Mr S 
receiving their money from their closed account. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the action set out above in resolution of hits complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman