DRN-3919815
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly declined her motor 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs Ss car was damaged outside her home. The car was insured through Admiral who 
arranged for it to be taken in for repair. The repairs were completed, but Admiral refused to 
pay for the wrap which was on the vehicle. It said that wrapping of vehicles isnt covered by 
the policy terms.
Unhappy with outcome, Mrs S complained to Admiral. They wouldnt change their stance, so 
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt 
uphold the complaint. She found that the policy terms didnt provide cover for modifications 
to a vehicle unless they were manufacturers optional extras which had been declared and 
accepted by Admiral. Even though Mrs S had said she had declared her wrap when she took 
out the policy, our investigator said as this is not a manufacturers optional extra it wasnt 
covered.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
On 3 January 2023 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint.
Admiral says it wont pay for the wrap on the car as the policy doesnt provide cover for
modifications to a vehicle. It has referred to the following policy term:
12.Standard parts replacement
Your policy does not cover modifications.
If you make a claim for loss or damage to your vehicle, provided it is economical to
do so, we will only pay the cost of replacing parts needed for your vehicle to meet the
manufacturers specification along with any optional extras and/or disability
adaptations you have declared.
Manufacturers optional extras and disability adaptations are only covered if they
have been declared and we agreed to cover them.
The term modification is also defined in the policy as:
Any changes to your vehicles standard specification, including accessories and
additional parts, optional extras and aftermarket alterations, trade related changes
and parts.
From reviewing these terms, I dont think that Admiral has made it sufficiently clear that
modifications arent covered. While the policy says there isnt cover for modifications, it then
states that it will provide cover for certain changes to the vehicle if these are declared 
which contradicts the first sentence. I think this term means exactly what is covered by the
policy is unclear.
Mrs S has said that when she took out the policy, she told Admiral that her car was wrapped.
And when looking at the policy schedule, I can see that it states her car has been resprayed
to a different colour. And Mrs S says this is what was put down by the advisor when taking
out the policy - so Im persuaded she did tell Admiral about the wrap on the vehicle.
Based on the fact the wrap has been detailed on the policy schedule as a declared
modification, and the policy states that it will provide cover for some modifications that are
declared, I think Admiral has given Mrs S a reasonable expectation that the wrap would be
covered, should something happen to her vehicle. In view of this, I think it would be fair and
reasonable for Admiral to cover the claim for the wrap as part of the repair cost.
Mrs S didnt provide a response to the provisional decision. Admiral did reply and stated it 
disagreed with the outcome. Ive summarised the reasons given below:
Admiral doesnt agree that there is any contradiction in the wording as it says only 
manufacturers optional extras are covered if declared and accepted.
While Mrs S did declare the wrap on the vehicle, this modification question is a 
standard question used to calculate the insurance risk only. 
As the wrap isnt a manufacturers optional extra it is therefore not covered. 
The ombudsman has quoted the definition of modification, but this isnt a policy term 
and condition but a definition to assist customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the comments made by Admiral and Ive considered the matter very carefully. 
However, these dont persuade me to alter the outcome of my decision. Ill explain why.
The policy states it doesnt cover modifications under the general policy condition which has 
been quoted. However, it goes on to say it will pay for the repairs to the vehicle to meet the 
manufacturers specification along [emphasis added] with any optional extras and/or 
disability adaptations you have declared. As an optional extra is included in the definition of 
modification (a definition put in place by the insurer to provide clear meaning for the word 
when used throughout the policy - so by its very nature it is linked to the policy terms and 
conditions), Im still of the opinion that this causes confusion and therefore the term is 
unclear. 
It is important to note that this policy condition includes a completely separate sentence 
which refers to manufacturers [emphasis added] optional extras and disability adaptations, 
so there does appear to be a distinction. 
In addition to this, the wrap was included as a declared modification on the policy schedule. 
Admiral says this is a standard question to work out the insurance risk for premium rating 
purposes. This may be the case, but I havent seen anything in the paperwork provided that shows Mrs S was informed that declaring the modification was purely for those purposes  
so I still think she had a reasonable expectation that the wrap would be covered for the 
reasons previously mentioned. So, Im persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral 
to cover the cost of the wrap as part of the repair cost to her vehicle.
Putting things right
Admiral needs to arrange for Mrs Ss vehicle to be re-wrapped to complete a lasting and 
effective repair to it.
If this has already been completed by Mrs S, she should provide the invoice to Admiral for it
to settle the cost. Admiral should include 8% interest from the date the invoice was paid by
Mrs S to the date it settles this aspect of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Im upholding this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited need to do what Ive set out in the Putting things right 
section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman