DRN-2966966
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct bank, wont refund the 
money she lost when she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
I sent Mrs A and HSBC a provisional decision on 9 July 2021 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Its not in dispute that Mrs A authorised the payment herself using her online banking. So 
while I recognise she didnt intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law 
is that HSBC was obliged to follow her instruction and process the payment. And so Mrs M 
isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having looked at evidence of the previous activity on the account, I think this payment of 
£9,950 was unusual and not in line with Mrs As previous spending. The payment was for a 
large amount of money and was significantly larger than almost all other payments out of the 
account in the previous six months. The only larger payments out of the account were to 
another bank Mrs A had an existing relationship with, but this payment was to a new payee 
Mrs A hadnt sent money to before. There were other large transactions, but these were 
payments coming in to the account, rather than going out. And Mrs A hadnt made payments 
using her online banking, apart from the payments to the other bank. So I think this payment 
of £9,950 was unusual enough that HSBC should have identified Mrs A was potentially at 
risk of fraud and carried out additional checks before processing it.
But, even if HSBC had carried out further checks, I dont think the scam would have become 
apparent and I think Mrs A would have still gone ahead with the payment and still lost the 
£9,950.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. 
HSBC should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial harm. 
And, in these circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to expect these checks to include 
questions about the purpose of the payment, whether the customer had seen the car they 
were buying in person, whether they had done any checks into the cars history and whether 
they had done any checks into the company they were sending the money to.
Mrs A has said the car was more than 500 miles away from her address, so she couldnt 
reasonably have gone to see it. But she thought the consignment company wouldve allowed 
her to return the car for a full refund if she wasnt happy with it within a week, so this wasnt a 
problem. She said shed been sent the V5C and MOT certificate for the car, as well as 
several photos of it. And she says she visited the consignment companys website several 
times, checked its address, phone number and listing on Companies House and read 
reviews of it. So she believed it was a safe and reliable business.
So, even if HSBC had carried out further checks and asked questions like these, I think it 
would have been satisfied by Mrs As answers. I dont think theres anything further HSBC 
could reasonably have asked or suggested Mrs A do that would have uncovered the scam. 
And I dont think any warnings HSBC could reasonably have given wouldve stopped Mrs A 
from believing the consignment company was safe and going ahead with the payment.
I appreciate how Mrs A feels about this case and that this will come as a disappointment to 
her. And Im also not suggesting that she did anything wrong herself. She appears to have 
been the victim of a very sophisticated scam. But I dont think it would be fair to say any 
further action HSBC could reasonably have taken would have prevented the scam. And so I 
dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the £9,950 payment she lost.
Ive also looked at whether HSBC took reasonable steps to try to recover the money from 
the bank the payment was sent to, once it was told about the scam. But the bank the 
payment was sent to has shown us that the money was removed from the account before 
Mrs A reported the scam to HSBC. So I dont think HSBC could have done anything further 
to get the money back.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs A and HSBC sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC didnt send anything further to be considered. Mrs A made several further points, 
which I will address below.
Firstly I should explain that, where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must 
make a decision on what I think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mrs A said HSBC has been involved in and notified of this kind of fraud more often than 
other banks. Shes provided a list of accounts with HSBC she says have been used for 
similar kinds of fraud. And she says this means HSBC knew more about this kind of fraud 
and the risks to its customers than any other UK bank and that the additional checks it would 
have carried out would have been inadequate and ineffective. But I already said in my 
provisional decision that banks are generally more familiar with these types of sophisticated 
scams than the average customer. And I said I thought HSBC should have carried out 
additional checks before processing Mrs As payment.When deciding what would have happened if HSBC had carried out these further checks, 
Ive considered what would have happened if HSBC had carried out the standard of checks 
wed expect. So it doesnt matter whether the checks HSBC does in practice are inadequate 
or ineffective, as Im considering what would have happened if it had carried out adequate 
and effective checks, as wed expect it to do.
Mrs A also said, if HSBC had contacted her and asked her probing questions about the 
payment, she wouldnt have gone ahead with it. She said if HSBC had advised her to only 
pay a small deposit and withhold the full payment until shed received the car, she would 
have done this. But I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in not giving her this advice.
I said in my provisional decision I thought HSBC should have asked Mrs A further questions 
about the payment. But I said I thought that, if HSBC had asked the types of questions it 
would be reasonable to expect, it would have been satisfied by Mrs As answers. Mrs A said 
shed done significant checks on the consignment company and been sent several pieces of 
paperwork for the car. So I dont think HSBCs questions wouldve raised significant 
concerns, changed Mrs As belief that she was dealing with a safe and reliable business or 
that it would have become apparent she was the victim of a scam. And so I think Mrs A 
wouldve still gone ahead with the payment and I wouldnt have expected HSBC to give her 
any further advice.
While there likely is action HSBC could have suggested Mrs A take that could have 
prevented or uncovered the scam, I think it would only be fair to require HSBC to refund the 
payment Mrs A lost if that action was something HSBC would have acted unreasonably in 
not doing. And, as Ive explained above, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in not 
advising Mrs A to withhold the full payment until shed received the car.
Mrs A said she knows of other cases referred to our service with similar circumstances to 
hers, where the case has been upheld and the bank has been required to refund the money 
lost. But we look at each complaint separately, on its individual circumstances. And, for the 
reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to require HSBC to refund the 
money Mrs A lost in this particular case.
So, overall, I still think the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct and I 
dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the money Mrs A lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman