DRN-4145175
The complaint
Mr S complains about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) handled a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged in an incident, and he made a claim on his policy. NFU allocated 
the repairs to one of its approved repairers, but Mr S didnt want to use it. NFU said that if he 
used his own repairer, then he wouldnt be provided with a courtesy car. So Mr S chose 
another repairer from NFUs list of approved repairers. 
Due to an error, the repairs were allocated back to the previous repairer. The repairer 
chosen by Mr S couldnt undertake the work. There was then a delay in NFU authorising the 
repairs by a further approved repairer. 
NFU had provided Mr S with a courtesy car, but this didnt have a user manual and the key 
fob didnt work correctly. So NFU changed this car. But Mr S was unhappy that NFU hadnt 
provide him with a courtesy car on the day his car was recovered. NFU agreed that it had 
caused avoidable delays in the claim and there had been problems with the courtesy car. It 
paid Mr S £325 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought NFU 
had provided Mr S with a courtesy car earlier than the policy required. He thought NFU had 
acted to minimise Mr Ss distress. He thought that NFU had ensured that Mr S was still 
covered to drive the courtesy car after his policy lapsed. And he thought NFUs payment of 
compensation was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused.  
Mr S asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr S wanted a speedy response from NFU after his accident. I can see 
that there were initial delays in his recovery. Then there were issues about the garage that 
he wanted to carry out the repairs. And then he had to chase NFU to get it to authorise the 
repairs so the work could be done. I can understand that this must have been stressful and 
frustrating for him. 
NFU agreed that the claim hadnt been handled smoothly. When a business makes a 
mistake, as NFU accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, 
as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
Mr S was unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car when his car was recovered 
by a roadside recovery agent. NFU said Mr S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car until his car 
had been recovered to a garage, which happened the next day. But it thought it should have 
given Mr S more information about this. To put things right, it provided Mr S with hire and 
offered him taxis in the interim. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Ive looked at Mr Ss policys 
terms and conditions. I can see that the relevant policy term is on page 73 of Mr Ss policy 
booklet:
YOU will receive a courtesy CAR to keep YOU mobile while YOUR CAR is being repaired
NFU provided the courtesy car earlier as there was a delay in locating a suitable repairer. 
And it provided contingency cover so that Mr S was still covered to drive the courtesy car 
after his policy had lapsed. So I think NFU provided Mr S with a courtesy car outside the 
policys terms and conditions in order to accommodate his needs and to make up for its 
delays. I think that restored Mr Ss position and was a fair and reasonable response. 
Mr S was unhappy that the courtesy cars key fob didnt work correctly, and he hadnt been 
provided with a user manual so he could resolve this himself. I can see that when Mr S 
brought this to NFUs attention, it arranged a different hire car that same day. So I think it 
responded promptly to Mr Ss issue. But I can see that this caused Mr S some frustration.  
Mr S was unhappy that NFU had sent his car to a repairer that he didnt want to use rather 
than to his own choice of approved repairers. NFU agreed the car had been allocated back 
to the first approved repairer by mistake. The garage chosen by Mr S couldnt undertake the 
work as the car was unroadworthy. So a third repairer was allocated the repairs. So I think a 
mistake was made, but NFU put this right. 
But there was an avoidable delay of about a month in NFU authorising the repairs by the 
third repairer. Mr S was kept mobile during this time as he had a courtesy car. But I can see 
that Mr S was caused further frustration by this delay. 
To recognise the impact of this and the issues with the courtesy car, NFU paid Mr S £325 
compensation. This is more than we would recommend in keeping with our published 
guidance. So I cant say this was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require NFU to do 
anything further. 
Mr S has raised further concerns about how his claim was handled. But, as our Investigator 
has already explained, these concerns were raised after NFU responded to his earlier 
complaints. So Mr S will firstly have to raise these concerns with NFU to give it a chance to 
respond. If he remains unhappy then he can bring his complaint to us. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman