DRN-3339850
The complaint
Mr J complains that despite obtaining a PPI refund from HSBC UK Bank Plc hes still being 
pursued for an outstanding debt.
What happened
Mr J has told us he had various accounts with HSBC including business accounts, a credit 
card, loan and overdraft. HSBC says the business accounts were closed and sold to a third 
party debt collector (C) in 2013. Mr Js other accounts were also closed with balances sold to 
third parties.
In July 2015 Mr J accepted a PPI refund in relation to the closed credit card and it was used 
to reduce the outstanding balance. HSBC says it took the decision to write off the remaining 
balance. 
More recently, Mr J complained that despite accepting a PPI refund hed been contacted by 
C and asked to make payments. HSBC sent Mr J a final response but didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
confirmed the debts sold to C by HSBC in 2013 related to business accounts that Mr J was 
connected with. The investigator said the PPI refund had been used to reduce the credit 
card debt in Mr Js name and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr J asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a limited amount of evidence and documents available in this case due to the 
passage of time. But Im satisfied weve got enough information to reach a fair decision 
concerning Mr Js complaint. Mr Js response to the investigator says the PPI refund he 
received in July 2015 related to a personal loan and overdraft facility. But Mr J hasnt 
provided any evidence to support that claim. And HSBCs systems information contain 
reference numbers that tally with Mr Js credit card debt. Ive looked at Mr Js settlement 
form from July 2015 and Im satisfied HSBC processed it correctly and used the PPI refund 
to reduce the outstanding balance of Mr Js credit card. 
I think its reasonable to note that HSBC has confirmed it didnt sell personal accounts in Mr 
Js name to C. HSBC says it sold two accounts to C in 2013 but both related to Mr Js 
business  they werent personal accounts. So whilst C may be asking Mr J for payment, the 
evidence on file doesnt show thats in relation to the personal loan, overdraft or credit card 
in his name. Cs recovery work relates to business accounts HSBC sold in 2013. 
I havent seen anything in the information on file that shows HSBC agreed that the business 
debts it sold to C in 2013 were included in the PPI refund processed in July 2015. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr J, but I havent found any evidence that shows HSBC incorrectly applied the 
PPI refund in July 2015 or that its treated him unfairly. As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr 
Js complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman