DRN-3150203
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram) wont reimburse her
for funds she lost after she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
On 25 October 2019 Mrs S instructed MoneyGram to make £2,310.01 available to a third
party. She paid a £69.99 fee for this service. This was after shed received a call from
someone claiming to be from a telephone provider in connection with Mrs Ss router being
highjacked. Mrs S has explained shed been in touch with her internet provider earlier that
week to ask about her router. Because of this, Mrs S assumed the call was follow up call.
The caller wanted access to Mrs Ss computer as they wanted to install protection onto it in
connection to her two-bank accounts and, to do so she says she was transferred to a 
colleague of the callers at Microsoft.
Mrs S has explained the person at Microsoft sent their details  name, employee ID, email
address, address and phone number. Having seen this, Mrs S felt this confirmed the person
was genuine. He wanted access to her computer which she has told us she refused. But
said he tricked her into something on the belief it would install the protection when it had in
fact given him access. After installing the protection Mrs S was told there was a small cost
and so he extracted money from her account.
He then told Mrs S hed accidentally taken £1,619.90 and that hed paid her back but due to
reasons relating to foreign transactions he could only pay back £4,000. Mrs S received an
email to show £4,000 had been paid. She also added that she saw the £4,000 appear in her
account and it said it showed to have come from Microsoft  but she has now realised that
this was edited to show her what they wanted her to see. She was told she needed to go to
her local Post Office to pay back £2,380.
At this point Mrs S says she felt worn down and that shed tried replacing the phone, but the
person called back. He had changed Mrs Ss password, so she was unable to access her
computer but was told shed get the password once everything was completed.
The person looked up local Post Offices and opening times and told Mrs S where to go.
Mrs S told us she provided a reason why she couldnt go but was told theyd organise a taxi
to come and take her. Mrs S felt scared and so she went to her local Post Office. However,
she was unable to make a MoneyGram transfer due to the time  near closing time.
When Mrs S explained this and that itd have to wait until the next day, the person told her to
attend another Post Office which she was given the details for. Mrs S says the first 
transaction wouldnt work on the card shed tried to use  she tried this twice. Again, she told
the person she was speaking with that shed have to do this the next day but was told the
transaction had to be done that day. Mrs S used another card and the transfer was made.
Mrs S told us she was on the phone to the person when making the transfer though shes
said she had laid her phone on the desk while it happened. Unknown to Mrs S at the time,
the payment she made was to fraudsters.
Mrs S has told us when she got home, she switched off her computer and router. The next
day she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted her banks to report this.
Mrs S complained to MoneyGram but wasnt satisfied with its response  that it wasnt going
to reimburse her. MoneyGram have said to send a transfer, the sender must complete a
MoneyGram send form, outlining the senders information, receivers information and the
amount to be transferred. Fraud warnings are provided on the top the form and have to be
acknowledged by the consumer before the transaction is completed. MoneyGram have said
the customer is required to sign the send form, acknowledging that they have reviewed the
fraud warnings, agree to them and the terms and conditions of the transfer and still wish to
proceed. It said Mrs S did this. That the funds were paid out to the receiver and that the
transaction cannot be refunded back to Mrs S.
As she remained dissatisfied Mrs S complained to this service. One of our investigators
looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought MoneyGram
ought to have been concerned about the payment. This was on the basis that Mrs S was
new to MoneyGram and had never used it before, she was making a payment of £2,310.10
to a country she had no obvious connection and that she was on the phone to the scammer
while she was in the Post Office making the MoneyGram transfer which ought to have
caused some concern to MoneyGram.
The investigator said MoneyGram didnt ask Mrs S any questions about the payment and felt
had it done so she was persuaded the scam wouldve unravelled. She considered
MoneyGram hadnt gone far enough, and an opportunity was missed to discuss the payment
with Mrs S. Had it asked questions our investigator thought Mrs S wouldnt have lost this
money. She also thought about the warnings provided within the form and did recognise
Mrs S had confirmed shed seen these but as she wasnt aware she was being scammed at
the time and given how she was feeling at the time  tired and worn down, she didnt think it
was fair for MoneyGram to rely on these written warnings alone.
MoneyGram disagreed with the investigators view. It said Mrs S authorised the payment. It
says she ignored the fraud warnings that were provided which warn customers against
sending funds to strangers. It added the warnings are provided to deter customers from
falling victim to scams such as this one. Its told us that MoneyGram is regularly used for
customers to make large payments internationally, so the transaction would not have been
viewed as unusual or suspicious.
MoneyGram reiterated that it was sorry to learn Mrs S was fraudulently induced into sending
funds but that it doesnt agree it should be held liable to compensate Mrs S for the acts of
the receiver who defrauded her.
As MoneyGram didnt accept the investigators view, it asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
So, the complaint is now with me to reach a decision.My provisional findings 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
19 October 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Id first like to express my sympathy to Mrs S for what she has been through. This is a horrible thing to 
happen to anyone, and I can completely understand how this has affected her. However, it is my job 
to make decisions based not on my sympathy for a situation, but rather on what is fair to all involved, 
based on an assessment of whether a business did something wrong.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the transaction. And I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But I am also mindful that when Mrs S made the payment, MoneyGram should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And there are  
circumstances where a payment service provider should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether MoneyGram acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs S, when she made the payment to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Having thought very carefully about MoneyGrams actions, I cant safely say it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in allowing the payment to be made. I dont currently think MoneyGram should 
reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss.
I say this because Im mindful Mrs S didnt have an existing relationship with MoneyGram and that this 
was a one-off payment. Ive thought carefully about Mrs S not having used MoneyGram before asking 
to make the scam payment. But I dont think the fact Mrs S was making a payment for the first time in 
itself ought to have caused MoneyGram concern that she might be at risk of financial harm  after all 
there is a first time for everything. And I also need to keep in mind that it is not untypical for 
consumers to make one-off payments from time to time.
Here Mrs S made a payment of £2,310.10 via MoneyGram. I dont think this payment was large 
enough to have caused MoneyGram concern. It follows that Im not persuaded the amount of the 
payment was so unusual or suspicious that MoneyGram ought to have intervened and asked 
questions about the payment in the particular circumstances of this case before the payment was 
processed. And while I recognise Mrs S was making an international payment, Im not persuaded this 
would have caused MoneyGram any additional concern (in the way it might if it was a bank) when 
considering MoneyGram is primarily used to send funds internationally.
MoneyGram has referred to fraud warnings which it says were printed at the top of each form 
discouraging customers from sending money to strangers. MoneyGram said a form was completed by 
Mrs S at the time of making the payment, although I have not been provided with a copy of the actual 
form Mrs S completed at the time. Our investigator confirmed with Mrs S that she completed a form at 
the Post Office. Mrs S has told us she didnt require help when completing the form as shed been 
given instructions by the fraudster. Shes further explained that she probably did see the scam 
warnings on the form but that she just wanted it all to go away by this time. Ive thought carefully 
about this point and given what Mrs S has told us, Im persuaded the form Mrs S is likely to have 
completed contained warnings about fraud and scams. And while I recognise what Mrs S has told us
about wanting it to all go away by that time, in view of what Ive said above- considering the value of 
the transaction I dont think MoneyGram shouldve done any more in this particular case.Ive also considered what Mrs S has told us about being on the phone to the fraudster at the time of 
making the transaction and whether I think this ought to have caused MoneyGram concern. But Mrs S 
has told us shed laid the phone down on the desk, so I cant safely say that MoneyGram ought to 
have picked up on this and in turn that it ought to have caused concern. Because of this, Im afraid 
this point doesnt change my conclusions in this particular case.
It is very unfortunate Mrs S has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and as Ive 
said above, I do understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and very upsetting for 
her. But when considering all of the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say MoneyGram should 
have done more to prevent her losing this money. So, I dont currently think it would be fair for me to 
ask MoneyGram to refund the loss.
MoneyGram responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs S responded and reiterated her personal circumstances. I can see in the main what she 
has clarified was made clear to the investigator. She also reiterated her concerns about the 
level of experience of the agent at the Post Office. These were arguments that Id already 
considered when issuing my provisional findings, but Ive still taken the opportunity to 
reconsider everything thats been submitted before coming to a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains unchanged. Ive reached the same conclusions as set 
out in my provisional decision which Ive copied above. 
Id firstly like to assure Mrs S that I have carefully considered everything she has provided 
and told us. Along with all the information provided by MoneyGram. I also accepted that my 
findings will have come as a disappointment to her. Again, Id like to reiterate that I 
sympathise with what Mrs S has been through and that this is a horrible thing to happen to 
anyone. 
And while I do understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling about what has happened, on 
reviewing the points she has reiterated in response to my provisional decision, Im afraid my 
position remains the same for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision  which are 
copied above. 
To summarise, Im not persuaded the amount of the payment was so unusual or suspicious 
that MoneyGram ought to have intervened and asked questions about the payment in the 
particular circumstances of this case before the payment was processed. 
It is very unfortunate Mrs S has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam,
and as Ive said above, I do understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and
very upsetting for her. But when considering all of the circumstances, for the reasons Ive 
explained above and set out in my provisional findings, my decision remains unchanged. It 
follows that I dont think I can fairly say MoneyGram should have done more to prevent her 
losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask MoneyGram to refund the 
loss.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman