DRN-3396072
The complaint
Miss L complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Miss L says she missed her Sainsburys credit card payments due to a change in 
circumstances. She says the required payments were relatively small and later found out 
that Sainsburys registered a default on her credit file which is having a significant affect on 
her. Miss L says she had no idea a default was registered and says she wasnt told that one 
may be imposed or its implications. She would like the default removed from her credit file 
and says the full account balance was paid off in January 2020.
Sainsburys says it registered the default in December 2019 after Miss Ls account had been 
in arrears for a number of months. It says it sent a Notice of Default to her and says the 
account terms and conditions explain how a missed payment may affect future credit. It also 
says it doesnt accept making a mistake and doesnt have a record of Miss L contacting it 
about any financial difficulties.
Miss L brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the account statements made clear there were missed payments and 
the implications for them. And that Sainsburys has written to Miss L about the arrears and 
sent her a Notice of Default. The investigator thought the default was correctly registered.
Miss L doesnt accept that view and says she should have been told in Sainsburys letters 
what the implications for missed payments were and not told in a separate fact sheet. She 
says the information was vague and the amount involved small.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss L will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the letters Sainsburys sent Miss L and at her account statements. 
I have also looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss L would have 
agreed to when the account was opened.
The terms and conditions make clear that missed payments have severe consequences, 
including making credit more difficult. They also make clear that monthly required payments 
must be made and that the contract could be breached if not made. So, I dont think there 
can be any doubt that Sainsburys made clear to Miss L at the outset of the agreement that 
she needed to make required payments and if not, there would be an impact on her ability to 
obtain future credit.
Im satisfied that between June 2019 and December 2019 Miss L missed a number of 
payments and failed to make required minimum payments. I can see that Miss L was sent 
monthly statements and they made clear in a prominent position what would happen if 
payments were continued to be missed and the impact on future credit. 
Im also satisfied that Sainsburys wrote to Miss L on a number of occasions and told her she 
was in breach of the agreement and that it may take legal action. I can see that it complied 
with its regulatory duties by sending her a Notice of Default and included a fact sheet about 
its implications. I would have expected Miss L to have read the notices and fact sheet
So, I dont think Sainsburys could have done anything else in the circumstances of this 
complaint to make Miss L aware how serious the failure to make payments was or its 
implications. I find it made clear via a number of different methods that payments were 
required and what would happen if payments were not made. I dont think Miss L ought 
reasonably to have been in any doubt that Sainsburys regarded the arrears as serious as it 
suggested it may take legal action against her, and I dont think it mattered how much the 
arrears were.
Overall, Im satisfied this was Miss Ls account and her responsibility to manage it. I would 
have expected her to have told Sainsburys about any financial difficulties at the time. I also 
think that Sainsburys has a regulatory duty to accurately report the account position of its 
customers to the Credit Reference Agencies which I think it has done here. It follows that I 
cant fairly order Sainsburys remove the default when Im satisfied that the relationship 
between it and Miss L had clearly broken down following about six months of arrears and or 
missed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman