DRN-3196352
The complaint
As the complainants both have the same last name, I will refer to them in this decision as Mr 
W1 and Mr W2 to avoid confusion. 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 (Mr W1s father) complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax 
(BoS) in 1988.
What happened
Mr W1 and Mr W2s mortgage started in January 1989, and the PPI started at the same 
time. So I think its reasonable to take it that the PPI was sold when they applied for the 
mortgage, which BoS said was in October 1988. Mr W1 and Mr W2 raised a number of 
complaint points, including not having been given a choice about taking the PPI.
BoS initially said the policy was in the sole name of Mr W1. But Mr W1 sent in a certificate 
of insurance from 1989, showing the insurance as being in joint names, in which case the 
benefit would have been split equally between Mr W1 and Mr W2 (as noted on the 
certificate). The monthly benefit was £300, and the monthly cost was £12.00. In the event 
of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, the certificate of insurance 
showed that the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W1 and Mr W2 disagreed, 
and asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. BoS replied to say it had accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W1 and Mr W2s case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr W1 and Mr W2s complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as there is very little evidence about what happened in 
1988. BoS couldnt provide any documentation, or any sample copies, from the point of 
sale. However, it did send in copies of some computer records of Mr W1 and Mr W2s 
mortgage account and PPI policy. Mr W1, in particular, has provided his recollections of 
what happened, along with a PPI certificate of insurance from 1989.
Mr W1 said that he and Mr W2 were not given a choice about taking the PPI. However, in a 
questionnaire he sent to BoS, he also said he thought the premiums were charged as a 
lump sum at the start of the mortgage. From the limited evidence I have, I can see that the 
premiums were paid from a deposit account every month (as were the mortgage 
payments), so I think Mr W1 may have been recalling what is now called a higher lending 
charge, which was charged to the mortgage as a lump sum (and paid) in 1989, and would 
have been a condition of the lending. However, the higher lending charge is unrelated to 
PPI and is not the subject of this complaint, so I shall not refer to it further.
In the absence of any documentary evidence about the sale of PPI to Mr W1 and Mr W2, 
Ive also considered what we know about other BoS mortgage PPI sales at about the same 
time, and I havent seen wider problems in terms of PPI being presented as compulsory. 
So, overall, I dont think I can fairly say that its more likely than not that Mr W1 and Mr W2 
werent given a choice about the PPI, which is what Id have to do to uphold the complaint 
on this point  there simply isnt enough evidence that thats what happened.
However, BoS said it advised Mr W1 and Mr W2 to take out the PPI  so it should 
have made sure that it was suitable for them. Im not satisfied it was.
Firstly we have had differing information about who was covered. BoS initially said that the 
policy was in the sole name of Mr W1. However, the certificate of insurance that Mr W1 
sent in showed the cover as being in the joint names of Mr W1 and Mr W2. I dont have the 
PPI application form which is referred to in the terms and conditions on the reverse of the 
certificate, but I have no reason to think the certificate  the only contemporaneous 
document - would be incorrect.
I also note the terms and conditions state that where only one of the borrowers was named 
in the application form, the benefits would apply to that insured borrower provided that they 
were the main income earner at the time of the mortgage application. The mortgage 
amount was £60,000 (as shown on the computer records provided by BoS) and BoS said 
its records showed Mr W1 as having a salary of just over £9,000 (Mr W1 remembered it as 
being less than this and has not mentioned any other source of income). Unfortunately we 
have not been able to confirm Mr W2s income at the point of sale but my experience of 
general lending criteria at the time suggests to me that Mr W2 would most likely have been 
the main income earner of the two for a mortgage of that amount to be granted. So it 
doesnt seem likely that Mr W1 couldve been the sole insured person.
Therefore, on the basis that this was a joint policy, I have considered what we know about 
Mr W1 and Mr W2s circumstances. Both said they were in good health at the time, so, 
from the policy information I have, wouldnt have been affected by any exclusions relating 
to pre-existing medical conditions.
However, Mr W2 told us he was self-employed at the point of sale, and had been for some 
eight years. As I mentioned above, the certificate of insurance contains terms and 
conditions on the reverse side. But Bos couldnt provide the full policy document from when 
cover started in 1989, and its not clear whether the information on the certificate is a 
summary of cover, rather than the full terms and conditions, or indeed whether it is 
complete. BoS based its decision on its earliest available policy document (from 1993), 
although I note the underwriter was different to that shown on the certificate of insurance.
The policy details on the certificate are silent on the subject of self-employed claimants  it 
is not stated what conditions wouldve needed to be met to make a successful claim. But as 
Ive explained, I dont know whether those details are complete. The policy document that 
BoS referred us to contains the following condition in relation to unemployment claims:
..the Insured Customer's business has ceased to trade and has been or is in the 
process of being wound up or put into the hands of a liquidator or the partnership has been or is in the process of being dissolved and as a result the Insured 
Customer is unemployed.
If this condition applied to Mr W1 and Mr W2s policy, it wouldve made it more difficult for 
Mr W2, as a self-employed person, to claim on the policy for unemployment than if he had 
been employed.
I have a further concern in that the certificate of insurance refers to a monthly benefit of 
£300. On the basis that the cover was split equally between Mr W1 and Mr W2 (and based 
on the terms and conditions on the certificate of insurance, I think it was), in the event of a 
successful claim by one of them the amount paid out each month wouldve been £150. 
However, the computer records that BoS sent in show a monthly mortgage payment of 
nearly £600, and that the mortgage was on an interest-only basis with a linked endowment 
assurance policy, on which a monthly premium wouldve been payable.
I accept that in some cases consumers choose a monthly benefit that is lower than the 
mortgage payment. But in this case, Mr W1 said he wouldve expected the overall 
monthly benefit under the PPI to be equivalent to the full monthly payment rather than 
half of it, and Ive no reason to doubt that. I say that for the following reasons.
From the limited information I have, it seems likely that both Mr W1 and Mr W2 would have 
been contributing to the mortgage payments  at least at the outset. I accept that Mr W1 
said he was primarily responsible for the mortgage payments, but based on the salary 
figure I have for him, and in the absence of information about any other income, it seems 
unlikely that Mr W1s monthly income alone would have covered the mortgage repayments 
and the other associated costs as well as his living expenses.
While Mr W1 said he wouldve been entitled to 12 months full sick pay from his employer 
(although this does seem generous given Mr W1s length of service with his employer), Mr 
W2, being self-employed, had no sick pay entitlement and indeed said he had other 
mortgage commitments. So it seems to me that the loss of his income, in particular, 
couldve put the joint financial arrangements under strain quite quickly. So it seems 
unusual for the total monthly benefit amount to be only half of the mortgage payment (and 
its not clear that Mr W2 could easily have claimed for unemployment as I have stated 
above).
We asked BoS for any information it could provide about why it might have recommended 
a policy with a benefit that was around half of the overall monthly payment, but it did not 
send in anything further.
As I noted above, this is a difficult case to decide as there is so little information about 
what actually happened at the point of sale. But in summary, the uncertainty about the 
policy terms means Im not satisfied its most likely Mr W2, as a self-employed person, 
wouldnt have been affected by onerous terms in relation to unemployment claims. I also 
have concerns about the monthly benefit as I explained above. And I have no evidence 
about the information that might have been provided to Mr W1 and Mr W2 to enable them 
to make an informed decision about the PPI.
I said in my provisional decision that, from the evidence before me, I wasnt satisfied that 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 wouldve taken out the PPI if they had been properly advised and 
informed. As a result my conclusion was that Mr W1 and Mr W2s complaint should be 
upheld. No new evidence has been provided by any of the parties, and BoS accepted my 
conclusion. So I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things rightBoS should put Mr W1 and Mr W2 in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out the PPI. The policy has been cancelled, so BoS should:
Pay Mr W1 and Mr W2 the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W1 and Mr W2 made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. Bos can also deduct the amount it 
has already paid to Mr W1 and Mr W2 in relation to commission on the PPI policy.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mr W1 
and Mr W2 a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr W1 and Mr W2s complaint. Bank 
of Scotland plc should pay them the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman