DRN-2582671
The complaint
Ms C complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited gave her the wrong information about 
how long she could extend the cover for on her level term assurance plan. This has meant 
that her plan has now expired as she has had to take out cover elsewhere which is more 
expensive.
What happened
Ms C took out a life insurance plan with Standard Life in 2000. The plan was originally held 
jointly with her former husband. The plan provided cover of £30,000 over 12 years. In 2007, 
they increased the amount of life cover to £60,000 and Ms C recalls asking for the plan to be 
over the longest possible term. It was extended until 2020.
In early 2020, Standard Life wrote to Ms C to tell her that her plan was coming to an end. 
When Ms C contacted Standard Life about this, she found out that she could have extended 
it by a further 15 years, meaning she could have had cover in place until 2035. But by this 
time, it was too late as the option to extend it had expired. Standard Life said that, in 2013, it 
had stopped allowing sum assured increases or term extensions for customers who dont 
have the extension option on their plan. Although Ms C did originally have the extension 
option on her plan, this had expired in 2005.
Ms C complained. She said shed been told the wrong information in 2007 about the length 
of time she could extend the cover for. She said shed been told the maximum term she 
could have was until 2020. She said that her original plan didnt mention anything about a 
possible extension to 2035, other than if she extended it before 2005. 
Standard Life said Ms Cs plan had an option to extend the term which expired in April 2005. 
It said its records showed that she had contacted it in 2007 to ask to increase the sum 
assured and extend the term to 2020. It allowed this on the basis of health evidence at the 
time, and quotes were issued to Ms C. New policy documents were then sent to her when 
the alternations were accepted. Standard Life said it had no evidence that Ms C had asked 
for her plan to be extended to the maximum term.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Standard Life had written to Ms C in 2005 to remind her that the extension option 
on her plan was ending. However, before 2013 its process was to allow extensions even if 
there was no contractual option, subject to medical evidence being provided. He said this 
was why it hadnt written to customers to let them know, as it was a change in Standard 
Lifes internal processes rather than a change to the term and conditions of the plan.
The investigator said that, when Ms C was looking at making alternations to her plan, an 
illustration to extend the term to 2022 was produced which he felt demonstrated that it was 
possible to extend her plan beyond 2020. So he said it seemed unlikely that Ms C had been 
told that she couldnt extend the term longer than 2020. He said that no advice had been 
given to Ms C about the extension of her plan. He was satisfied that Standard Life hadnt 
made any errors in the plan administration and hadnt treated Ms C unfairly. 
Ms C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed. 
She questioned the logic of why she would have asked to extend the plan to 2020  a date 
that holds no meaning for her  when she could have had the cover to 2035.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Ms C has questioned why she would have only accepted a policy to 
2020, if she had been told she could have extended her plan to 2035. 
I am mindful that she took out this policy to provide cover until a time that she considered her 
son would no longer be financially reliant upon her and her former husband. This was why 
the original term was for 12 years. However, I do appreciate that her future plans may have 
changed over time. 
Because of the passing of time, Standard Life no longer has a recording of the call from 
2007 where the alternations to the plan were discussed. But I think this is understandable as 
theres no requirement for it to keep such records indefinitely. 
However, Ive considered the information from Standard Lifes records of when Ms C 
contacted it about making changes to her policy. These show that she called Standard Life 
towards the end of 2006, and a quotation was produced for her which included critical illness 
cover of £30,000 for her and extended the term of the plan to 2022. This quote gave a time 
until November 2006 to accept it. 
The notes of Ms Cs later contact with Standard Life in April 2007 say that at that time she 
asked to increase the life cover to £60,000 for both her and Mr C and extend the plans term 
to 2020. An illustration of the costs of this was sent to her, and then the changes were 
accepted by her and Mr C.
So while I appreciate Ms Cs point about asking why she wouldnt have taken her plan to 
2035 if this was available to her, I havent seen anything to indicate that Standard Life gave 
her the wrong information about the options for her plan. I say this because the records 
indicate that it provided her with the illustrations that she requested. The earlier illustration to 
include the critical illness cover was to 2022, which would show that a longer term than to 
2020 was possible. Standard Life has said that Ms C could have requested a plan extension 
to 2035 at that time, so its not clear why it wouldnt have let her know this if she had asked 
for the maximum term, rather than to 2020.
 
The original policy documents set out the extension option that was included in the first five 
years to April 2005, and the circumstances when this could be provided without the need to 
supply further medical evidence. And this says that the extension should be to a term more 
than three years after the request, and no longer than to April 2035.
 
Ms C made her request to extend her policy in 2007, which Standard Life agreed to subject 
to further medical evidence. It has explained that at that time it allowed alternations to a plan 
with further evidence of health, and this is what Ms C and Mr C provided. But it was still the 
situation that the maximum term available for this plan was 35 years, so to 2035 from when it 
was first started in 2000.
Overall, whilst I can fully understand Ms Cs strength of feeling about having to now take out 
alternative, more expensive cover to provide her with the life insurance she now wants, I dont think that Standard Life has made an error with the information it has given her about 
her plan and the cover it provided her with. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman