DRN-3280502
The complaint
Mr H complains that MoneyGram International Limited wont refund money he lost following 
him falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr H has told us that in early 2018 he fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mr H has told us that in January 2018 he got in contact with somebody, via Facebook. Hes 
said over the coming weeks he built an online relationship with the individual, communicating 
with them over the telephone, but never meeting in person. The individual told Mr H that they 
lived in the United States, but travelled internationally through their work, which included 
travelling to Dubai.
A few months into the relationship, Mr H has said the individual started to ask for money. He 
was told money was needed to pay taxes and that the individual wouldnt be permitted to 
leave Dubai until they had paid them. Further requests were made for money to pay for food, 
travel and medical supplies.
Believing the person to be genuine, Mr H went ahead and made several international 
payments via a MoneyGram account, to the individual and various other people who they 
told Mr H were connected to them. The individual told Mr H that he would get all of the 
money back, and hes told us this is why he didnt question giving the financial support. Mr H 
has said he trusted the person, as they had made a number of promises to visit him. But 
unknown to him at the time he was making payments to a fraudster. Between February 2018 
and April 2018, Mr H made the following payments through his MoneyGram account;
- £1,199.04
- £808.81
- £597.20
- £1,185.51
- £1,000
- £1,046
- £1,000
Mr H became suspicious after hed purchased tickets for the individual to visit him, but they 
didnt arrive.
Mr H contacted MoneyGram who looked into his complaint, but didnt uphold it. In summary, 
it didnt agree that it should refund Mr H the money he had lost. It said that if MoneyGram is 
asked to pay someone and it turns out somebody has been defrauded, then MoneyGram will 
not be liable.
Unhappy with MoneyGrams response, Mr H brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into his complaint and thought it should be upheld. In summary she 
considered MoneyGram should have intervened when he was making the payments, as he 
was making a number of high value, international, payments. She went on to say that had it 
of intervened and spoken to Mr H about scams such as these, she thinks it would have 
made a difference and stopped Mr H going ahead with the payments.
MoneyGram didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it was sorry to hear Mr H was 
fraudulently induced to send funds, but it didnt agree that it should refund the transfers Mr H 
had made. It said fraud warnings were provided at the top of the forms used to send the 
funds, warning against sending money to strangers. And it re-iterated if a customer asks 
MoneyGram to pay someone who turns out to have defrauded them or who fails to meet 
their obligations to them, that it didnt think it should be liable as a result. It said it has no 
control over what the receiver does with the money the sender wires them, and no way of
regulating any agreement between the sender and receiver. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. I 
reviewed the case and sent my initial thoughts to Mr H on 5 November 2021, which I have 
shared with MoneyGram, explaining that I was minded to reach a different outcome to our 
investigator. In summary, I didnt think the payments Mr H would have appeared so 
remarkable to MoneyGram that I could fairly and reasonably have expected it to intervene 
before allowing his payments to be progressed. In the circumstances, I didnt think I could 
fairly say that MoneyGram should have done more to prevent him losing this money.
Mr H didnt agree with my initial thoughts. In summary, he said the payments were made as 
part of a sophisticated scam, where a lot of money has been lost. Mr H says that money lost 
has been returned by other financial institutions from the same scam, so he questioned why 
MoneyGram is any different.
As Mr H didnt agree with my initial thoughts I have now set out my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I know Mr H has mentioned that funds have been returned, as part of the same scam, from 
other financial institutions. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may 
seem quite similar and indeed may relate to the same/or very similar scams, each complaint 
is determined by its own individual circumstances. And it is worth noting that MoneyGram 
isnt a bank and so has different obligations. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked solely at 
the individual circumstances of Mr Hs complaint about the payments he made through his 
MoneyGram account. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at thetime.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened and I can understand entirely why Mr Hs feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
MoneyGrams actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transactions to 
be made and so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask MoneyGram to refund the money 
he lost. Ill explain why;
In recent years there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams  this, in part,
has led to there being greater expectations of firms  banks and building societies in
particular - in their role in helping to protect customers from financial harm from fraud. Its not
uncommon that we find that firms ought to have done more to protect customers from
financial harm from fraud but in deciding that a firm ought to have done more, we have to
think about whether it met the expectations of it at the time.
Theres no dispute that Mr H instructed MoneyGram to make these payments. So, the
starting presumption is that he is responsible for any loss thats happened as a result. But I 
also need to consider whether MoneyGram, taking into account the relevant law,
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been
good industry practice at the time, ought to have reasonably done more to prevent Mr Hs  
loss.
There are situations where we may expect a firm to intervene before allowing a payment(s) 
to be progressed. But this would depend on the character of the payments being made and 
when the fraud took place and what obligations there were on the firm at the time. Some 
examples of expectations that have been placed on firms are;
- Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Businesses (PRIN)  which set out 
(among other things) that a business must conduct its business with due care, skill 
and diligence (principle 2) and must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly (principle 6). But before 2019 MoneyGram were not subject to 
these principles.
- PAS 17271:2017  Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or 
financial abuse, published in 2017, gave recommendations to firms for protecting 
customers from financial harm and guidance on how to recognise customers who 
might be at risk. It recommended that firms should have systems and tools in place 
for the prevention and detection of financial abuse and said that any suspicious 
transaction should be flagged, and a member of staff notified.
- The Banking Protocol, first introduced in 2016, is an initiative between banks, Trading 
Standards and the police to encourage bank staff to be proactive in spotting scams 
before money is handed over and enables staff to alert the police in certain 
circumstances.
While some of these obligations werent in place at the time Mr H made the payments, its 
nevertheless apparent that MoneyGram did have systems in place and take certain steps to 
try and prevent Mr H from suffering financial harm. I can see from looking at MoneyGrams 
send forms, that would have been in place at the time Mr H made his transactions there is a 
banner near the top headed Fraud Warnings! Stop!. This details steps a customer can take 
to protect themselves from becoming the victim of a scam and covers the scenario of making 
payments to somebody who you may have met on line.
But, Im mindful that this warning in itself isnt enough to say that MoneyGram has met its 
obligations. And as Ive said there are situations where we might reasonably expect a firm to intervene before allowing a payment(s) to be progressed. Ive thought about this point 
carefully and considered the payments Mr H made through MoneyGram (which consisted of 
seven payments ranging from between c £600 up to c £1,200). 
Having done so, overall, I dont consider the payments would have appeared so remarkable 
to MoneyGram that I can fairly and reasonably have expected it to intervene before allowing 
the transactions to be progressed.  When considering the service that MoneyGram provides, 
a person to person money transfer service, I dont think these payments would have stood 
out as being particularly unusual.  
Im mindful Mr H didnt have an existing relationship with MoneyGram when he started to 
make these payments. But I dont think the fact Mr H was making a payment through 
MoneyGram for the first time in itself ought to have caused MoneyGram concern that he 
might be at risk of financial harm. It follows that Im not persuaded the that the payments 
being made were so unusual or suspicious that MoneyGram ought to have intervened and 
asked questions about the payments before allowing them to be progressed. 
I also recognise that these appeared to be international payments, but Im not persuaded 
this would have caused MoneyGram any additional concern (in the way it might if it was a 
bank) when considering the service MoneyGram provides is quite typically aimed at sending 
funds to family and friends abroad. 
Its very unfortunate that Mr H has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand the whole experience will have been hugely upsetting for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that MoneyGram should have done more to 
prevent him losing this money. I cant hold MoneyGram responsible for Mr H having fallen 
victim to a scam and overall Ive found that it has met its obligations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against MoneyGram International 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Rachael Deterville
Ombudsman