DRN-2930626
The complaint
Mr S complains about how U K Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy for damage to his property.
What happened
Mr S has a buildings and contents insurance policy, which is underwritten by U K Insurance 
Limited (UKIL). This policy was purchased online and, when it was taken out, Mr S declined 
to take out additional cover for accidental damage to his buildings and contents.
In February 2021, Mr S became aware of water ingress within his property and he noticed 
that his bay window frame was being squashed by the weight of masonry above it. He also 
observed cracks in the masonry surrounding the window. So, he contacted UKIL to make a 
claim under his buildings insurance policy for damage to his property.
In order to support his claim, Mr S sent UKIL photographs of the damage hed observed. 
After UKIL reviewed the photographs, and the information that Mr S had provided about his 
claim, it decided to repudiate the claim. 
UKIL said it didnt think an insured peril had caused the damage that Mr S had reported. It 
explained that it had shared the photographs hed provided with its technical claims team to 
explore whether the cracks in the property masonry might be due to subsidence. But the 
opinion of that team was that, because the photographs didnt show any cracks below the 
window, subsidence was unlikely. UKIL informed Mr S that it thought the damage may have 
been caused as a result of a lintel failure, which was excluded under his policy.
Mr S was unhappy that UKIL had repudiated his claim without sending a buildings inspector 
to evaluate the damage to his property. But UKIL explained that it would only instruct a 
buildings inspector to attend a property if it thought it was possible that an insured peril could 
have happened. And it said, based on what it had seen, it wasnt persuaded this was the 
case. So, it didnt think sending an inspector would have led to a change in the outcome of 
the claim. UKIL did, however, inform Mr S that it would reconsider his claim if he provided it 
with a cause of damage report.
On 16 March 2021 Mr S instructed a company, which Ill refer to as H within this decision to 
attend his property to inspect the damage to his bay window. H attended Mr S property on 
23 March 2021; it took photographs and produced a structural report. Within this report, H 
highlighted issues with the way in which the front gable return roof was being supported by 
the bay window and it provided guidance on the remedial action required. UKIL didnt have 
sight of this report until after Mr S had referred his complaint to our service. 
On 20 April 2021, Mr S referred his complaint to our service as he stated he needed to 
undertake remedial work urgently due to the condition of his property. Our investigator asked 
Mr S if he would consent to our service providing a copy of Hs report to UKIL, which he did. 
After UKIL considered Hs report it maintained its repudiation decision. It thought Hs report 
showed that the damage had been caused by a combination of gradually occurring damage 
and faulty workmanship in relation to how the bay window had been installed. It confirmed 
that these factors were excluded under the terms of Mr S policy. So, Mr S asked our service 
to continue with our investigation into his complaint.
After our investigator had assessed Mr S complaint, they didnt recommend upholding it. 
They were persuaded that the damage Mr S had reported had most likely been caused by 
the incorrect installation of the way window. And they thought UKIL had acted fairly in 
declining to meet Mr S claim. But Mr S disagreed with our investigators view of his 
complaint and requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was damage to Mr S property and I can see that he notified 
UKIL promptly on becoming aware of the damage. But theres a disagreement between Mr S 
and UKIL about the cause of the damage and the correct outcome of this claim. 
The crux of this complaint is whether UKIL acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill 
explain why I think it has.
Mr S insurance policy with UKIL provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. In order for 
a claim to be successful, a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy. The onus is therefore on Mr 
S to show that an identifiable peril was the cause of the damage he reported. 
Ive seen evidence showing that, when Mr S notified UKIL of the damage hed observed, it 
considered the photographs and information hed provided about what had happened 
against the perils listed in his policy. UKIL shared Mr S photographs with its technical claims 
team to explore whether the cracks in the property masonry might be due to subsidence. 
Having taken that action, UKIL stated that the opinion of that team was that subsidence was 
unlikely because the photographs didnt show any cracks below the window as it would have 
been expected. This all persuades me that UKIL thoroughly considered whether the damage 
had been caused by any of the perils listed in Mr S policy before repudiating his claim.
UKIL wasnt able to consider meeting Mr S claim as accidental damage because he didnt 
take out this level of cover when he incepted his policy. I therefore cant fairly conclude that 
UKIL acted unreasonably in declining to cover Mr S claim as accidental damage.
I can see that Mr S raised concerns about UKIL repudiating his claim without instructing a 
building inspector to attend his property to assess the damage he reported. Ive therefore 
considered whether this was unreasonable.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, UKIL explained to Mr S that it would only 
instruct a buildings inspector to attend a property if it thought it was possible that an event 
covered under the policy could have happened. By this stage of the claim, UKIL had already 
been provided with photographs of the damage, an account from Mr S about the damage 
and an opinion from its technical claims team. 
Im not persuaded that instructing a buildings inspector would have led to a change in the 
outcome of Mr S claim. Had UKIL sent a buildings inspector to Mr S property Im persuaded 
the most likely focus of the inspection would have been to ascertain whether there was 
evidence of subsidence or structural movement. And I think that the technical team was able 
to reasonably rule that out based on the photographs it had already seen for the reasons it gave. I also think its most likely that, had a buildings inspector attended Mr S property, they 
would have reached the conclusions that H expressed in its structural report. Im therefore 
not persuaded that UKIL acted unreasonably in declining to instruct a buildings inspector.
In the background to this complaint I referred to UKILs offer that it would reconsider Mr S 
claim if it received a cause of damage report. Mr S obtained a structural report. But UKIL 
didnt have sight of that report until after Mr S referred his complaint to our service. I think it 
was helpful of our investigator to provide this report to UKIL for its opinion.
Ive carefully considered Mr S views of his claim, UKILs claim notes and the structural 
report in reaching a decision on what is the fairest way to resolve this complaint. Having 
done so, Im persuaded that Hs report supports UKILs decision to repudiate Mr S claim on 
the basis of gradually occurring damage and poor workmanship. Ill explain why.
Hs cause of damage report is very comprehensive and detailed. It states the following:
The gable frame support beam is showing signs of decay. In addition, the outriggers on 
either side have deflected downwards. They do not appear to extend very far back into the 
main building structure but seem to be built simply into the front wall at their supported end.
As such, this arrangement and timber beam decay has led to the gable frame roof loading 
bearing down directly onto the bay window frame, which it may or may not have been 
intended to support. These loads pass down into the ground floor dado brickwork wall. We 
understand that the bay window frame was fitted in circa 2000
Like our investigator, Ive interpreted this report to mean that the damage was caused by 
age-related wear and tear of the support beam and the incorrect installation of the window. 
Mr S has questioned how the damage could have been caused by the way in which the 
window was fitted as this window was installed in around 2000 and hadnt presented a 
problem until this year. But, as H indicated in its report, there is also decay to the gable 
frame support beam, which is damage that has occurred gradually over the years. And the 
decay of the supporting beam, together with the incorrect installation of the windows, 
ultimately caused the damage Mr S observed earlier this year.
H provided detailed guidance to Mr S regarding how he ought to repair the damage to his 
property. This included replacing the window frames support structure with one that extends 
further into the main roof area to offer more support. This further supports the view that 
gradual damage and a workmanship fault in how the bay window was installed led to the 
damage. So, I dont think UKIL made an error in reaching a conclusion that these were the 
causes of the damage Mr S reported.
As Ive already mentioned Mr S policy covers damage caused by certain events. Damage 
that happens gradually or as a result of faulty workmanship, design or materials are 
specifically excluded, which is in common with most home insurance policies. This is 
because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen, and something wearing out or 
requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As the gradually occurring damage and poor workmanship it isnt covered under the terms 
and conditions of Mr S insurance policy, Im satisfied that UKIL acted fairly in declining this 
claim. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman