DRN-4384293
Complaint
Mr T has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly calculated that he wasnt 
entitled to a refund of any interest when he asked to settle his loan early. 
Background
In October 2019, Mr T successfully applied for a loan for £7,700.00 from HSBC. The loan 
had an APR of 11.9% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £8,876.27, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,176.27, was due to be 
repaid in a first monthly instalment of £296.04 followed by 29 monthly instalments of 
£295.87.
Mr T contacted HSBC about settling his loan early in June 2021. However, he was unhappy 
at the settlement figure he was quoted as he was told that he wouldnt receive an interest 
rebate. Mr T didnt settle his loan at this stage and asked for further settlement quotes in 
August 2021, September 2021 and April 2022. On each occasion, Mr T was told he wasnt 
entitled to an interest rebate and decided against settling his loan. He eventually complained 
about the amount he was being asked to repay.
HSBC investigated Mr Ts complaint and didnt think it had done anything wrong when 
providing Mr T with his settlement figures. In its view, it had calculated the amount Mr T was 
asked to pay in line with the appropriate regulations. Mr T remained dissatisfied and referred 
his complaint to our service.
Mr Ts complaint was looked at by one of our investigators and in his view, Mr T hadnt paid 
any extra interest as a result of any error in calculating the settlement figure for his loan as 
he didnt repay the loan early. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T believes that at the time he requested his early settlement figures he should have had 
an interest rebate, as it is illogical to have to pay all of the interest on a loan when it is repaid 
early. On the other hand HSBC said that Mr T wasnt entitled to an interest refund. And while 
it said that the settlement amount complied with the regulations in place, it hasnt really been 
able to demonstrate how this is the case. 
Ive carefully thought about what both Mr T and HSBC have said.  
In truth, as Mr T didnt settle his loan in June 2021, August 2021, September 2021 or              
April 2022 and there remains an outstanding balance, the amount HSBC asked him to pay is 
no longer of critical relevance to this complaint. Nonetheless, given its clear that Mr T still 
feels strongly about this matter, Ive looked into the amount HSBC asked Mr T to pay in 
order to settle his loan early and whether this was worked out in accordance with the 
applicable early settlement provisions.
The rules regarding early settlement
I think that it would help for me to start by explaining that Section 94 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 allows a borrower to settle a regulated credit agreement  such as Mr Ts 
agreement with HSBC - and discharge their indebtedness early. And where a consumer 
requests to settle a credit agreement early, like Mr T requested to do here, the Consumer 
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regulations) set out how a lender should 
work out what the customer needs to pay in order to settle the amount outstanding.
Section 5 of the regulations allows a lender to calculate a settlement for (and valid until) a 
date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was made. And interest would be 
charged for this 28-day period. Furthermore, if the agreement in question has a term for 
longer than a year, like Mr Ts two and a half year agreement did, section 6 of the 
regulations allows the lender to defer the settlement date, for the purposes of calculating an 
interest rebate, by a further 30 days. 
Therefore, as Mr Ts request was a request to settle an agreement which had an original 
term of longer than one year early, the regulations permitted HSBC to charge interest for a 
period of 58 days from the date of the settlement request. 
Amortisation - how loan repayments are applied to outstanding balances
Its important to note that all loans  irrespective of whether interest is added upfront or on a 
daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each instalment is made up of 
some of the interest and charges and some of the capital advanced. And this usually means 
that even though a monthly payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the 
amount borrowed - a much smaller proportion of this payment goes to repaying the capital in 
the early stages.
So many consumers in Mr Ts position may believe that theyve paid off more of their loan 
than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments made, because theyre 
unaware of the way that their loan would be amortised and a larger proportion of the early 
payments were going towards the interest. 
In Mr Ts case, only £219.77 of his approximately £296 initial monthly repayment went 
towards repaying the capital balance. And £76.27 of his first monthly payment went towards 
the interest that had accrued. The proportion of Mr Ts second payment that went towards 
interest was £67.12 as the capital balance owing was £7,480.23, which is £219.77 less than 
it was at the start. 
As the amount Mr T owed reduced with each payment he made, the proportion of his 
payments that went towards repaying interest also reduced. I appreciate that Mr T says that 
he wasnt notified about any of this or provided with a breakdown of he the interest would be 
apportioned when he took out his loan. 
However, the loan agreement Mr T signed does state that interest would be added upfront. 
And as the method used to amortise Mr Ts loan was in line with how most loans of this type 
operate, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to take any additional steps to highlight the 
schedule or breakdown what proportion of each of Mr Ts payments were going to capital 
and what proportion were going to interest.Equally, having looked at the amortisation schedule used, Im satisfied that there were no 
issues with HSBCs calculations up until March 2020. The situation changed when Mr T had 
pandemic payment deferrals and Ill now explain how and why this happened.
Mr Ts three-month payment deferrals in April 2020 and September 2020 the effect it had on 
the outstanding balance going forward
As I understand it, Mr T successfully applied for pandemic payment deferrals in April 2020. 
As a result he, with HSBCs agreement, didnt make loan repayments in April 2020,           
May 2020, June 2020, September 2020 (the payment made in September 2020 was   
August 2020s payment taken on the first available working day), October 2020 and 
November 2020. Its worth noting that the regulators guidance did permit lenders to charge 
interest during any pandemic payment deferrals. 
Although this wouldnt have made any difference to the total amount Mr T had to pay had the 
loan run to term because HSBC simply added six extra payments at the end of the term to 
account for the six deferred payments. Nonetheless by the time Mr T resumed his loan 
repayments in July 2020, the amortisation schedule was thrown out of kilter by the fact that 
interest would have accrued on a balance that hadnt reduced in line with the initially 
proposed schedule. 
From what I can see, HSBC appears to have tried to correct this by apportioning £251.29 of 
Mr Ts July 2020 payment towards interest. And it attempted a similar solution with 
December 2020s payment when it apportioned £238.71 of this payment towards interest. 
This may well have been what the total interest amount for Mr Ts combined April 2020,        
May 2020, June 2020 and September 2020, October 2020 and November 2020 payments 
would have been. And I can to some extent understand why HSBC did this.
However, this served to apportion a much smaller amount of Mr Ts payment to the 
outstanding balance. And I dont think that things were ever readjusted in a way that brought 
the balance back in line with the initial schedule  particularly as the amount going towards 
interest was even more than what it was right at the start of the loan when the capital owing 
was at its highest. 
I think that this resulted in higher proportion of Mr Ts monthly repayment being allocated 
towards interest rather than reducing the capital going forward.            
The position when Mr T asked to settle his loan early in June 2021, August 2021,  
September 2021 or April 2022
As Ive explained, the fixed-sum nature of Mr Ts loan, which meant that no further interest 
could be added, meant that the failure to return to the initial amortisation wouldnt have been 
a problem or cost Mr T more had he repaid his loan in 30 monthly instalments  - albeit 
repaying his final instalment in October 2022. But Mr T asked to settle his loan early in. And 
when he did so he was faced with 58 days worth of interest being added to an unexpectedly 
larger outstanding capital balance. 
HSBCs calculations dont appear to have corrected for this. And while, for reasons Ive 
already explained, I dont agree that Mr T was entitled to an interest rebate of 50%, I dont 
think that HSBCs settlement figure is correct either. 
I fail to see how outstanding balances of £5,029.79 (in June 2021), £4,438.05 (in             
August 2021) and £2,366.96 (in April 2022) on a loan on an amortisation schedule and being 
settled early wasnt eligible for an interest rebate when the loan had an APR of 11.9%. Indeed HSBCs early settlement calculations show that Mr T had no more interest to pay 
from August 2021, despite having only made 13 payments and still having a further 17 to 
make and the loan having an APR of 11.9%. Im afraid that HSBCs numbers simply dont 
add up here.
Why what Mr Ts settlement figure should have been in June 2021, August 2021,  
September 2021 or April 2022 isnt critical to the outcome of his complaint 
Mr T didnt pay an increased amount to settle his loan. He declined to do so when told how 
much HSBC thought he needed to pay to settle his loan in June 2021, August 2021, 
September 2021 and April 2022. Mr T says that he had the funds to settle his loan early and 
would have done so had he been provided with a correct settlement figure.
However, for reasons Ive already explained, Mr T incorrectly believed that his settlement 
amount should have been lower than what it should have been. So I cant reasonably reach 
the conclusion that Mr T would have settled his loan had he been provided with a correct 
settlement figure, given he was always likely to disagree with the amount he would have 
been asked to repay even if the amount had been calculated correctly.
In any event, and perhaps even more importantly its only fair and reasonable for me to ask 
a respondent firm to compensate a consumer for financial loss that they actually suffered, 
rather than a loss that they could have but did not end up suffering. Mr T is effectively asking 
us to place him in the position that he would have been had he settled his loan in June 2021, 
August 2021, September 2021 or April 2022. 
But the fact remains that Mr T didnt settle his loan early and therefore didnt overpay  
notwithstanding the fact that he may have had the funds at this time. For the sake of 
completeness, Id add that Mr T hasnt provided me with anything that clearly demonstrates 
that he did have the funds to repay the loan at the time. 
So Im therefore satisfied that Mr T didnt suffer a financial loss as a result of HSBCs failure 
to provide him with correct early settlement figures June 2021, August 2021,               
September 2021 and April 2022. 
In these circumstances, I see no value to asking HSBC to retrospectively calculate this 
amount at this stage and I make no direction in regard to this matter.  
Furthermore, as an alternative, Mr T has argued that his loan should be closed as completed 
and settled. However, I understand that Mr Ts loan was closed to recoveries with an unpaid 
balance of £1,183.48 in April 2023. Its important to note that this means that given the total 
interest on the loan was £1,176.27 and the remaining balance is greater than this, Mr T still 
hasnt repaid the capital balance. 
As this is the case, I cant reasonably say that this represents Mr Ts loss for HSBC providing 
an incorrect settlement figure either. And Im satisfied that requiring HSBC to write off the 
outstanding balance and record the loan as settled wouldnt be fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances here  in my view this would place Mr T in a far more advantageous position 
than he would be in had things gone as they should have done. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im therefore satisfied that Mr T hasnt lost out 
because HSBC didnt provide him with correct settlement figures June 2021, August 2021,               
September 2021 and April 2022. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr T  as he clearly feels strongly about 
this matter. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel her concerns have been listened to  particularly as he has now had an explanation of how 
early settlement calculations work and how his settlement amounts should have been 
calculated at the respective times.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman