DRN-3850177
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Monzo Bank has shown that it received a report that funds paid into Mr Js account in June 
2021 had been fraudulently obtained. These had been withdrawn from the account. So, it 
added the marker and closed Mr Js account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He had discussed the 
payment with Mr J. Hed first told him that as the specific day was his birthday this money 
was from family. But the adjudicator said that this didnt tie up with the name of the sender 
and the reference on the payment for Apple TV. Mr J had provided screenshots of two 
online chats relating to the sale of TV related items. But one was dated 10 June 2021, 
indicated that someone was then coming to collect an item and was a number of days before 
this payment. And the other was several days after and was an enquiry only. So, our 
adjudicator thought that Monzo Bank had met the standard for adding a marker and had 
grounds to close the account.
Mr J didnt agree. He said that he didnt know that this money was fraudulent. And he didnt 
have any more proof but is an honest person and has shown someone came to his house to 
collect an item. Mr J said its unfair that hes been unsuccessful in opening a bank account 
elsewhere and can only have a pre-paid account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive noted that Monzo Bank has a record of an online chat with Mr J on 24 June 2021 and 
told him his account had been frozen. I dont see it gave him the opportunity to explain this 
payment. But our adjudicator has asked him about this now and told him the name of the 
sender and the reference number. Mr J has some information about trying to sell what 
seems to be more than one item at around this time and to still have an item available after 
the receipt of this payment. But he cant evidence receiving the specific funds of £50 in 
question here legitimately.
I can see from the information provided that after receipt the money was moved to a 
savings pot at Monzo Bank and then later moved back the same day when it was 
withdrawn. Theres no information that anyone other than Mr J had access to the account to 
do this. So, I think he was reasonably aware of this money and the nature of the payment. 
And I find he was most likely complicit in what happened.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr J received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the 
police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe 
fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Js account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr J received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr J had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Given my findings about the marker I consider that Monzo Bank closed the account under 
the terms and conditions. I appreciate what Mr J says about the impact of the marker and his 
need for an account, but I dont have a reasonable basis to require Monzo Bank to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman