DRN-4402718
The complaint
Mr D complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Limited provided a poor standard of 
service when he made a claim under his policy about a leaking tap and didnt replace his 
tap.  
 
What happened
Mr D held an add on policy to his house insurance to cover home emergency repairs. The 
policy was underwritten by DAS.  
On 5 April 2023 he discovered a tap in his downstairs toilet was broken and water was 
flooding out and onto the floor. He rang DAS as he didnt know how to turn off the water and 
was advised an engineer would contact him. 
Mr D then opened the front door and swept the water that was still flowing out of the front 
door. He had no contact from DAS that day but he managed to contact the previous owner 
of the house who was a plumber and they came round and isolated the water supply to the 
tap 
The next day DASs engineer arrived and said the tap was broken and that he would need 
authorisation for a replacement tap so he went away again without repairing the tap.
Mr D rang DAS the following day and was told that he would need to buy a tap and they 
would come back and fit it. Mr D was then called back and advised that he would also have 
to pay for the fitting because he was only covered for emergencies  which was to isolate 
the leak, not for any subsequent repairs. 
Mr D logged a complaint. DAS explained that the policy didnt cover Mr D for any repairs, but 
offered £40 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
attending and the incorrect advice given on the phone. Mr D was unhappy with this and 
brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ds complaint. While she was investigating, DAS 
increased their offer to £100 as they had been unaware of health issues related to the 
occupants of the property.  Our investigator thought that DAS should go further and repair 
the tap as well as pay the £100 they have offered.  
DAS disagreed with our investigators view and so the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Im minded to uphold Mr Ds because I think that DAS should pay the compensation they 
have offered, but I dont agree with the investigator that they need to repair the tap, and I will 
explain why.  
I have to think about whether DAS have properly fulfilled their obligations under the terms of 
the policy in this case and whether the service they provided was in line with what we would 
expect  and if it wasnt, what is appropriate to put things right for Mr D.  
Mr D has said that he purchased the add on policy so that he was covered if an emergency 
situation arose, and he didnt expect that this wouldnt cover a repair. I can understand why 
he was then disappointed when he came to make a claim and found out that in fact the 
policy didnt cover everything that he thought it would. 
So Ive looked at the terms of the policy to see exactly what it does cover. 
It says that plumbing is covered for:
Damage to blockage, breakage or leaking of drains or plumbing system that you are 
responsible for in your home.
Under How well handle your claim it says that they will either:
Carry out a temporary repair (or a permanent repair if this is no more expensive)
Take other action, such as isolating a leaking component or gaining access to your 
home.
In this case that means that if DAS had attended Mr Ds home on the day of the leak, as they 
should have, under the terms of the policy it would have been sufficient for them to isolate 
the leak and leave it for Mr D to arrange his own permanent repair of replacing the tap in due 
course. Mr D was never covered for a permanent repair to the problem.  
Mr D had thankfully managed to arrange the isolation of the supply himself and so when the 
DAS engineer turned up the following day, there was no ongoing emergency for him to 
deal with. 
Emergency is defined in the policy as an event that is:
sudden, unexpected and requires immediate corrective action to:
Prevent damage or further damage to your home
Make your home secure
Relieve unreasonable discomfort, risk to health or difficulty to an insured person
And so Im satisfied that DAS have complied with the terms of the policy in respect of any 
action they were required to take to deal with the emergency  and Im satisfied that they 
werent required to replace the tap in this situation.
Although Mr D and his wife had lost use of the downstairs bathroom tap, there was an 
alternative in the kitchen. This wasnt as convenient, but it would have been sufficient for a 
short period while they arranged a permanent repair  and so I dont think it presented any 
risk or unreasonable difficulty to them.  
So Ive then gone on to think about the service provided and whether it was as I would have 
expected. DAS have accepted that it wasnt, and they have offered a total of £100 
compensation. The investigator thinks they should also fit the new tap. 
Many people, including Mr D, take out these policies because they are elderly, or have 
disabilities which make it more difficult for them to deal with emergency situations when they 
arise. So I can appreciate how distressing it is when an emergency occurs and that help and 
assistance doesnt arrive as quickly as you would expect it to. Mr D has described the water 
as pouring out, which led to large amounts of water leaking into his hall and having to sweep 
it out of the front door. When he reported the issue to DAS at 3.15pm, they were made 
aware that both he and his wife were vulnerable. I can see that DAS tried to get a plumber straight away but were unable to, and that they 
rang Mr D at 3.52pm to offer an appointment for the next day. Mr D has told us that by the 
time DAS rang and made that offer, the tap had been isolated by the previous owner.  
I appreciate that had Mr D not been able to get assistance from the previous owner a next 
day appointment wouldnt have been satisfactory and the house would have been subject to 
further damage. However, the emergency situation was thankfully short lived  around half 
an hour - and I can only consider what did happen, not what might have happened when Im 
considering compensation. Its very unlikely that DAS would have been able to get anyone 
out quicker than Mr D was able to, and so Im not sure that there was any additional 
inconvenience caused by DAS here.  
 I can then see that Mr D was given incorrect information the following day when the 
engineer suggested that firstly they might replace the tap and then secondly when he called 
and was told that they would fit it for him if he got his own tap. This advice was corrected 
later that day. 
I appreciate that Mr D wasnt happy that he was told that his tap wouldnt be replaced 
without charge, and he was upset on finding out that the policy didnt provide the cover what 
he thought it did. However, the advice that it wasnt covered was right, and so I can only 
consider the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect advice given by the 
engineer and in the first call, the impact of which was again short lived. 
Having considered the impact of both these errors, Im satisfied that the £100 offered by 
DAS is sufficient compensation for the customer service failings.  I dont think that DAS also 
need to replace the tap. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both DAS and Mr D have responded. 
DAS have accepted my decision but Mr D disagrees. Mr D has pointed to the calls with DAS 
in which they said they would replace the tap if he provided it. I dont disagree that Mr D was 
given incorrect information, and that is why I think the award of £100 is appropriate. 
Unfortunately, this doesnt change the fact that he wasnt covered for repairs once the 
emergency was isolated. 
And so whilst I appreciate Mr Ds view, it doesnt change my decision, and I think the offer 
made by DAS is fair in the circumstances. 
In light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings.
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right DAS should pay Mr D £100 they have offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and directing DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Limited to put things right as above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman