DRN-3665809
The complaint
Ms H and Mr T are unhappy with what Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc did after they 
made a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H and Mr T have home insurance with Ecclesiastical which includes legal expenses 
insurance. In April 2017 Ms H contacted it about a trespass claim relating to a neighbour 
who had moved in the previous year. Ecclesiastical said it would need to assess whether the 
claim had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). 
Ms H didnt contact Ecclesiastical again until June 2018. Matters had progressed and she 
wanted to know if she could use her own solicitor to pursue the claim. An update was 
provided from those solicitors. Ecclesiastical didnt respond until the end of October when it 
requested the completion of a claims management report (CMR) which included an 
assessment of whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success. It emailed the 
relevant form. It sent this again in January 2019 though initially to an incorrect address. 
In July 2019 Ms H said shed secured an injunction against her neighbour in March and 
wanted to know what assistance Ecclesiastical could provide with the next steps. 
Ecclesiastical said it was still waiting for the CMR to be returned and queried what the 
outstanding issues were. At the end of September Ms Hs solicitors returned the CMR which 
said the claim did have reasonable prospects of success and that a trial date was set for 
December. Ecclesiastical sent terms of appointment to those solicitors and chased for the 
return of these in December. 
The next contact from Ms H was in August 2020. Matters had again moved on and 
settlement of her costs had been agreed of £115,000 (less the amount shed paid for these 
to be negotiated plus interest). Charging orders were being applied for on the neighbours 
property. Her solicitors queried whether cover was available for this enforcement action. 
After further discussion Ecclesiastical agreed to backdate cover to when the claim was first 
reported (April 2017). It also agreed an hourly rate with Ms Hs solicitors (with her topping up 
the outstanding amount). The following year Ms H said her neighbours had left their property 
which was subsequently sold. Her solicitors confirmed in June the case had concluded on 31 
March 2021 when the costs and interest were paid by the defendants; they apologised for 
not reporting this to Ecclesiastical earlier. 
Ms H was unhappy she remained out of pocket for legal costs shed incurred which she 
hadnt recovered from the other side (for example the amount paid for the costs 
assessment). Ecclesiastical said she wasnt covered for any shortfall in costs recovered from 
the other side. And in addition the policy only covered reasonable and necessary costs. It 
didnt think any costs Ms H hadnt recovered would meet that definition. 
Following discussion with both sides I set out my initial thoughts on the complaint last month. 
In summary I said:
In line with other legal expenses policies Mrs Hs only covers reasonable and necessary 
costs. In this case a costs assessment had been carried out and it was agreed £115,000 
was the amount that could be recovered. That suggested to me this was the amount 
considered reasonable and necessary.
But there were other costs that Mrs H had highlighted (for example relating to the costs 
assessment itself and subsequent enforcement action). If these were reasonably and 
necessarily incurred (and couldnt have been recovered from the other side) its possible 
they were ones the policy should also cover. 
In order to resolve matters Ecclesiastical agreed to instruct an external costs draftsman 
to review these elements of the claim and see whether they were ones the policy could 
cover. That process will include considering whether these costs were reasonable and 
necessary and havent (and couldnt) have been recovered from the other side. It 
wouldnt cover the top up costs Mrs H paid to her solicitor which its agreed arent 
covered by the policy.
I also considered whether Ecclesiastical should make a payment for distress and 
inconvenience. I acknowledged the problems with her neighbour had been extremely 
upsetting for Mrs H and had a significant impact on her enjoyment of her home. And I 
accepted there were occasions where Ecclesiastical could have responded more quickly. 
I also acknowledged the frustration Mrs H was caused by having to contact different 
people to chase for a response while dealing with a difficult and at times fast moving 
legal situation.  
However, I also took into account that there were some significant gaps in contact 
between Mrs Hs representatives and Ecclesiastical. For example although the claim was 
logged in April 2017 there doesnt appear to have been significant further contact with 
Ecclesiastical until June the following year. And while Ecclesiastical sent a Claims 
Management Report to Mrs Hs solicitors in November 2018 (and a further copy at the 
end of January 2019) this wasnt returned until September 2019. 
Terms of appointment werent then signed by Mrs Hs solicitors until October 2020. I 
recognised there might well have been very good reasons for all of that but I thought that 
would have made it more difficult for Ecclesiastical to respond when further contact was 
made.
Ecclesiastical subsequently agreed to backdate cover to the date Mrs H notified it of the 
claim (April 2017) and has now agreed to appoint (and pay) for a costs draftsman to 
review the elements of the claim Ive referenced . Given that I didnt think there was more 
Ecclesiastical needed to do to put things right here. 
Ecclesiastical confirmed its agreement to what Id said. Mrs H didnt agree. She reiterated 
the original complaint points shed made and in summary said: 
The amount she recovered from the other side was the settlement amount she was 
recommended to accept. She did so because of the stress she was under and as a 
result of other health problems. And that meant she didnt go back to court to seek a 
higher payment. 

She didnt accept that any issues with her solicitors providing information to 
Ecclesiastical would have made it more difficult for it to respond as she always quoted a 
claim reference number. And she drew attention to an email from her solicitors flagging 
the difficulties they were having in communicating with Ecclesiastical. She acknowledged that appointing a costs draftsman would be helpful but this didnt 
provide any recompense for the customer care failings she believed Ecclesiastical was 
responsible for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mrs H has given some further background to the case and the impact on her of what 
happened. I dont doubt the difficulties she faced and Im very sorry to hear about them. 
Shes also suggested I review the 1000 pages of court papers relating to her case. But I 
dont think thats something I need to do. The issue I need to consider isnt her underlying 
legal case but what Ecclesiastical did in relation to it. And Im satisfied I have enough 
information to reach a decision on that.  
Turning first to the amount she was able to recover from the other side I appreciate the 
reasons why Mrs H decided to accept that figure. But I understand that amount was 
recommended by the professional advisers who assessed her costs. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen to date I think its reasonable to say if they thought a higher figure could have been 
recovered (which reflected the reasonable and necessary costs incurred) thats what would 
have been recommended. However, if Mrs H has evidence to show that isnt the case thats 
something she should provide to Ecclesiastical so it can be considered as part of the review 
its already agreed to carry out. 
In relation to the customer service issues shes highlighted I agree there were points where 
Ecclesiastical should have done more to respond to her. I think the email shes flagged from 
her solicitor (which Id already seen) is an example of that. But I continue to feel that, even 
with the inclusion of a claim reference number, the significant gaps in contact from Mrs H 
and her representatives will have made it more difficult for Ecclesiastical to respond promptly 
to the points she was raising. 
However, as Ive said there were times when it could nevertheless have responded more 
quickly and Im sure that not getting earlier responses will have added to Mrs Hs distress at 
what was already a difficult time. The question is whether theres more Ecclesiastical now 
needs to do to put things right. And I think its reasonable to consider in that context the 
steps its already agreed to take which, as Ive said, are to backdate cover to the date Mrs H 
notified it of the claim (April 2017) and to appoint (and pay) for a costs draftsman to review 
the elements of the claim Ive referenced . Taking that into account, and on balance, I dont 
think there is more it needs to do here. 
Putting things right
Ecclesiastical will need to appoint and pay for a costs draftsman to assess fees Mrs H 
incurred in relation to the costs assessment along with costs associated with the subsequent 
enforcement action. It should then review whether these are costs that are payable in line 
with the terms and conditions of her policy. If shes also able to provide further evidence 
showing she hasnt recovered all of her reasonable and necessary costs from the other side 
Ecclesiastical should also consider whether her policy would cover these. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc will need to put 
things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 November 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman