DRN-3331461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim theyve made 
on their new build warranty.
What happened
Mr S brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout. 
References I make to Mr S and Amtrust include Mrs S and its agents respectively.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively detailed by our Investigator so Ill provide a summary here.
Mr S owns a property which has the benefit of a Premier Guarantee for Self Builders 
building warranty underwritten by Amtrust. 
In 2020, there was a problem with the waste treatment plant (WTP) flooding after the 
connected soak away failed. Mr S made a claim on the warranty.
Following investigations, Amtrust declined the claim. It said the plant had been 
installed in 2006 and had been in situ  albeit with some adaptation - some years 
before the insured property was constructed in or around 2014. It wasnt therefore 
newly constructed by the builder in connection with the insured property and was 
excluded under the policy terms.
Mr S provided further evidence. Amtrust reconsidered its decision and agreed to 
reconsider part of the claim relating to a drainage pipe which was found to be of 
insufficient length for the size of the property. But the rest of the claim remained 
declined.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his claim to this Service. Our Investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said the evidence showed the treatment plant had been installed prior 
to the construction of Mr Ss property and therefore wasnt covered by the warranty. 
Mr S disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how a complaint should be resolved 
quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint and may not comment on all the arguments put forward by the parties unless I 
consider theyre relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything the parties have said even where I dont reference this specifically. 
When a policyholder wishes to make a claim on an insurance policy or building warranty, the 
onus is on them to show the damage being claimed for is covered by the policy. When an 
insurer relies on a policy exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on them to show the 
exclusion applies. Ill be considering this complaint in light of this principle, while keeping in 
mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The Waste Treatment Plant
Ive started by considering the terms of the policy. These explain there is cover for:
The cost of making good any defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components in the drainage system which was newly constructed by the Builder in 
connection with the Housing Unit and for which the Policyholder is responsible.
So, for the claim to be covered by the policy Id have to be persuaded the drainage system 
was newly constructed in connection with the housing unit covered by the warranty. So, the 
first point Ive considered is the likely date of the installation of the WTP. 
Amtrust says the WTP was installed in 2006, some years before the property was 
constructed and therefore doesnt meet the definition above. Mr S disagrees and says it was 
installed sometime later but even if it was installed in 2006, it was done with the intention of 
servicing a property in the future and so the claim should be covered.
During its investigations, Amtrust spoke to the original builder and previous owner of the 
property - Mr P  who had originally taken out the warranty. The warranty and the remaining 
term were passed to Mr S when he purchased the house in 2017.
Mr P said the WTP was installed in 2006 as a replacement for the original plant. When the 
previous property on the site burned down, Mr P converted the garage into temporary living 
accommodation and the WTP served this and would ultimately serve the property he 
planned to build sometime later. He originally put the plot up for sale but eventually built the 
property himself around 2014 and the WTP then serviced this. Mr P obtained the warranty 
from Amtrust. He confirmed the warranty covered the house only, not the garage or WTP.
I note the Law Society property facts form from the time the property was purchased also 
confirmed the WTP was installed in 2006. I acknowledge here Mr S initially strongly believed 
the 2006 date on the legal forms was a typo and should have said 2016 but Ive not seen 
any evidence to persuade me this was an error.
Later, Mr S pointed out this date would have been provided by Mr P during the course of the 
property transaction and therefore shouldnt be seen as independent verification of the 
installation being undertaken in 2006. He called into question the reliability of Mr Ps 
statement and his general integrity. It seems to me though, Mr Ps testimony remained 
consistent over time, and Ive seen nothing which persuades me his version of events  that 
the plant was installed in 2006  is incorrect, nor have I been given any substantiated reason 
as to why he might have provided false testimony. 
Mr S provided commentary and some documentation which he says supports his view the 
WTP wasnt installed in 2006. This included, but wasnt limited to, the following examples. 
Mr S said he had obtained information from a builders merchant which suggested the plant 
had been purchased in 2015, and while he said hed provide evidence to support this, Ive 
not been given anything to consider. So this argument hasnt persuaded me.
Mr S also says the specialist company he uses to undertake work on the plant has no 
records of maintaining or emptying it prior to 2015. But, the absence of maintenance records from this specific company doesnt persuade me this means the plant was only installed 
around this time. It seems a reasonable possibility the maintenance was just undertaken by 
a different company before this or simply wasnt undertaken at all.
He also pointed to information from previous planning permission applications one of which 
shows the proposed house wont use the existing drainage system. But Im not persuaded 
that means some of the components of the drainage system  of which the WTP is part  
werent in situ at the time.
Having very carefully considered the evidence presented by the parties I find the evidence 
from the builder and previous owner to be more persuasive and I think its more likely than 
not the WTP was installed in 2006. And as construction of the property which is the subject 
of the warranty didnt start until 2011, it seems to me the WTP pre-dated this  and the 
inception of the warranty - by around six years. I dont think this could be described as 
having been newly constructed by the builder in connection with the Housing Unit even if it 
was installed with the ultimate intention of being used for a property that would be built at 
some point in the future.
Mr S points out the definition of Housing Unit in the policy includes the drainage system 
within the perimeter of such property. It seems broadly accepted the WTP was damaged as 
a result of a defect rather than because it was defective in itself. So for completeness, Ive 
considered whether the WTP might be covered under the part of the policy relating to Major 
Damage to the Housing Unit. 
This shows theres cover for the destruction or physical damage to any portion of the 
Housing Unit caused by a defect in design to the Structure or Waterproof Envelope, both of 
which are defined terms and have been previously detailed by our Investigator. Having 
looked carefully at the terms of the policy, Im satisfied the drainage system doesnt meet the 
definition of either the Structure or Waterproof Envelope of the property and so the WTP 
claim isnt covered under this part of the policy either.
Im therefore satisfied Amtrust acted fairly in declining the part of the claim relating to the 
damage to the WTP. 
The discharge pipe from the treatment plant
Following the investigations by one of its experts, Amtrust agreed the perforated discharge 
pipe from the treatment plant was too short and didnt meet building regulations. It accepted 
the pipe was newly constructed for the property and should have been 40 metres long but 
was only 32 metres. It agreed to cover this aspect of the claim and pay for a replacement 
discharge pipe so this part of the claim is no longer in dispute.
Mr S also argues that as this part of the drainage system was accepted as defective, the 
WTP - as part of that system - should be covered too. But I dont agree, for the reasons Ive 
explained above. I think Amtrusts decision here was fair.
Manufacturers Instructions
There seems to be some disagreement over whether the plant was maintained in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions. Mr S says it was. In the original claim 
decline letter, Amtrust said it didnt think it had been.
Significantly though, Amtrust didnt refer to this in its claim declination letters as the reason 
for the claim being declined. So, I dont need to reach a conclusion on this disagreement as 
it didnt affect the outcome of the claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman