DRN-3877960
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that ARAG Allgemeine Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft has 
declined two claims they have made on their legal expenses insurance (LEI).
All references to ARAG include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out LEI with ARAG in August 2021. Since taking out the policy they have 
made two claims.
The first claim relates to the purchase of a kitchen. Mrs B purchased a kitchen by credit card 
in 2018 from a company Ill call K. It was installed in 2019 and later that year they 
experienced problems with the kitchen and made a complaint to K. Mr and Mrs B werent 
satisfied with the offer made by K and so Mrs B raised a claim with her credit card supplier 
(who I will call C) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Mrs B wasnt happy with Cs 
response to her claim, so she came to this service. This service upheld her complaint in 
2021. The ombudsman directed that C arrange with K various works. For various reasons 
this didnt happen. So, Mr and Mrs B approached ARAG for assistance under their LEI 
policy. It declined their claim saying that they had not approached it within 90 days of the 
date of occurrence  as required under the policy. And that the agreement which led to the 
claim was entered into in 2018 which was prior to the commencement of the insurance. 
Mr and Mrs B said that the date of occurrence regarding the claim against C should be when 
C said it wasnt going to follow this services decision.
The second claim relates to a neighbour dispute. The extension to Mr and Mrs Bs house 
receives limited light due to their neighbours hedge blocking the light. Mrs B approached 
ARAG in June 2022 to support them to take legal action against their neighbour to require 
their neighbour to maintain the hedge.
ARAG said that the event that gave rise to the claim occurred in 2018  so before the start of 
the LEI policy. It also said that they should have notified it of their claim within 90 days of the 
claim first arising  which it said was in 2018  but they didnt notify it until 2022.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed they said the dispute did not first occur in 2018, Although the 
neighbours did not cut the hedge, they did not ask them to until 2018, when their neighbour 
agreed to sell them the land where the hedge falls, the sale fell through as their neighbour 
decided not to move, the neighbour cut the hedge from then and throughout this period until 
the summer of 2022. Their neighbours refused to cut the hedge then because they had 
erected a fence.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed with ARAG that in 
both claims the date of occurrence occurred prior to the policy starting. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree. They do not see how any claim could be covered because they 
would have to anticipate every problem in advance that could result in a legal issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all legal disputes are covered under Mr and Mrs Bs policy. The policy covers consumer 
contract disputes, domestic property protection, employment, professional negligence, legal 
defence, HM Revenue & Customs, attendance expenses and personal injury. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs claim relating to K the most relevant section would appear to be 
consumer contract disputes. These are defined as: Disputes arising out of a contract for the 
purchase or hire of goods or services for private use or the sale or supply of privately owned 
goods provided that the insured person has entered into the agreement or alleged 
agreement after the commencement of the first period of insurance. 
This heading of cover clearly wont help Mr and Mrs B as the contract which gave rise to the 
dispute was entered into before the commencement of the first period of insurance that is 
they bought the kitchen before they took out their insurance.
It is possible that they might be covered under domestic property protection, so I have 
looked at that part of the policy. Domestic property protection is defined as: Disputes arising 
out of:
a) A third party's alleged or actual negligent act or omission, nuisance, trespass or criminal 
damage relating to an insured person's material property (including your home but not any 
other buildings or land) which causes or could cause physical damage or pecuniary loss.
b) Infringement of your legal rights originating from the ownership of your home.
c) A contract in your name and relating to your home for construction, conversion or 
extension, sale or purchase including the leasehold and rental (but only as a tenant) 
provided that the insured person has entered into the agreement or alleged agreement after 
the commencement of the first period of insurance.
d) The landlord's failure to maintain your home
The only relevant part of the above is clause c which again refers to a contract having to be 
entered into after the commencement of the first period of insurance which is not the case 
here.
I cant find anything else in the contract which would cover Mr and Mrs B for their claim 
against K. Therefore, I do not think ARAG was wrong to decline their claim. It does not 
matter that at the time of them taking out their cover that Mr and Mrs B did not anticipate 
how K would respond to a decision of this service. 
Turning to Mr and Mrs Bs dispute with their neighbour, this might be covered under the 
policy as the policy covers a dispute arising out of the Infringement of your legal rights 
originating from the ownership of your home. Mr and Mrs Bs policy says ARAG will pay for 
legal expenses which arise from legal proceedings brought by them provided amongst other 
things that the date of occurrence is within the period of insurance. The date of occurrence is 
defined as: The date of one or more events arising at the same time or from the same 
cause, which give(s) rise to a claim under this insurance.
In Mr and Mrs Bs claim form they say: We have consistently requested [their neighbour] to 
cut [the hedge] as it makes our kitchen and dining room very dark. Sometimes he has it cut 
but other times he weaponises the cutting to elicit compromises from us. We were led to 
believe that we had to prove that we had tried to solve the problem directly with the neighbour before the local council would get involved. We have kept email correspondence 
over the past 2/3 years asking for the hedge to be cut and for a cutting schedule. We spoke 
to the council 2 weeks ago regarding this matter, but this route does not look very 
promising.
They have also said that for seven years their neighbours didnt cut their hedge and then 
they asked their neighbours to cut the hedge which they did do. They say that it was only 
after they put up a fence that their neighbours were so angry that they would no longer cut 
the hedge.
I asked Mr and Mrs B to provide me with more information, in particular the emails between 
them and their neighbours. I also asked them to explain what they meant when they said he 
weaponises the cutting to elicit compromises from us. Mr and Mrs B said that they thought I 
had made my mind up and saw no point in providing any further information. 
In these circumstances I need to make a decision based on the information I do have. I think 
it is most likely that Mr and Mrs B have been in dispute with their neighbours regarding the 
hedge for some time and that this dispute arose prior to them taking out their insurance. The 
reason I think that the dispute has been running for some time is from what Mr and Mrs B 
have said. Their use of the words consistently requested and weaponises together with 
keeping a kind of evidence log all suggest to me that this is not a dispute that arose after the 
policy was taken out in 2021. I therefore dont think ARAG was wrong to decline their claim 
as the policy does not cover pre-existing disputes.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman