DRN-3045590
The complaint
Mrs C complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services 
(FCA) mis-sold her a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In May 2016, Mrs C acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement through FCA, 
known as a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP). The PCP comprised of a hire purchase 
agreement for the car, and a fixed-sum loan agreement for some additional products Mrs C 
had opted to take  a warranty for the car, a paint protection policy and a car service plan. 
They are known as Value Added Products (VAPS). Mrs C made an advance payment of 
£215, and the total repayable under the agreement was £17,183. Mrs C was required to 
make 46 monthly repayments of £215 and she had the option to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement with a final repayment of £7,078.
The agreement set out that Mrs C had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing so, FCA would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total amount payable for the car under the agreement. The 
agreement set out that this was £8,131.44.
In August 2019, Mrs C decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. As she had paid at 
least half of the total amount payable for the car, she wasnt asked to pay any more to 
voluntary terminate the agreement and she returned the car. But a while later, FCA sent her 
an invoice for £832.07. They said Mrs C had exceeded the mileage allowance at the point of 
voluntary termination and charged her £269.82 for this. They also confirmed to Mrs C that 
the VAPS fixed-sum loan had to be paid in full, and FCA charged her £562.25 to settle this 
aspect. 
Mrs C settled the excess mileage charge, but she wasnt happy about the request to pay the 
VAPS loan in full. She complained to the dealership (who Ill call A). At the same time, she 
complained to FCA about this too. She said that she concerns with three aspects. They 
were:
The PCP agreement. She said she wasnt told the VAPS were a separate loan and 
that she would still be liable for these if she voluntary terminated the agreement;
The Autocare Warranty. Mrs C said she wasnt aware the warranty provided started 
in May 2019, at the end of her three-year car manufacturers warranty. She said she 
would have paid for this when it was needed, if she had made the decision to 
continue with the agreement at that point;
The paint protection policy. Mrs C felt this wasnt a service, but an addition to the 
value of the car and therefore should have been included in the total repayable for 
the car.
A said they were satisfied the agreement had been explained to Mrs C, and she had signed 
the hire purchase agreement confirming she accepted the terms of it. FCA essentially said 
the same thing to Mrs C. They told her the VAPS were under a separate loan, and the terms 
and conditions of the PCP explained this and that the loan for the VAPS would have to be 
settled in full if the hire purchase agreement for the car was voluntary terminated. They 
continued to ask Mrs C to make payment. 
Mrs C remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said the documentation Mrs C was provided with at the time the PCP was 
entered into confirm the hire purchase agreement for the car and the fixed-sum loan 
agreement for the VAPS are separate. She said the terms and conditions of the PCP confirm 
that too. So, she didnt think FCA had acted unfairly by asking Mrs C to settle the 
outstanding amount for the VAPS. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She continued to say she wasnt made aware the VAPS were a separate 
loan. She felt the loan should be cancelled and she should receive her payments back. 
As Mrs C didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service can consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding FCA responsible for 
any antecedent negotiations between Mrs C and A, who acted as FCAs agent when setting 
up the hire purchase agreement. What this means is that anything A said or did when 
arranging the hire purchase agreement, I can consider against FCA.
Where there is conflicting or missing evidence, such as in this case, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is most likely 
to have happened. And, in this case, I dont think Mrs C was mis-sold the agreement 
complained about here. Ill explain why.
The PCP Agreement
Mrs C has said that the PCP agreement she entered into wasnt explained clearly to her and 
she wasnt aware it was made up of two separate agreements, a hire purchase agreement 
for the car and a fixed-sum loan agreement for the VAPS. In order to decide on this, Ive 
looked at the agreement and all the pre-contract information Mrs C was provided with, from 
A and from FCA. Having done so, Im satisfied its clear that the VAPS are separate to the 
hire purchase agreement for the car. 
The pre-contract information that Mrs C confirms shes seen by signing the PCP agreement, 
explains exactly what type of credit agreements she is accepting. It clearly shows the hire 
purchase agreement for the car, with the total amount to pay over the duration of the 
agreement showing as £16,262.87. It also clearly explains the monthly repayments for this 
part of the PCP  47 monthly repayments of £200.80 and a Final Repayment of £6,610.41 if 
Mrs C wanted to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
Similarly, the pre-contract information also clearly shows the fixed-sum loan agreement for 
the VAPS, confirming the total amount of credit for this fixed-sum loan as £1,135.13. Again, 
it confirms the monthly repayments for this loan agreement  47 monthly repayments of 
£14.20 and a Final Repayment of £467.59 at the end of the agreement if the car was kept by 
Mrs C.The information in the pre-contract information is replicated on the PCP agreement. Im 
satisfied that it clearly shows the two agreements, one being for Goods  in Mrs Cs case, 
the car  and one being for Insurance/Warranty/GAP/Other loan, or in other words the 
VAPS that Mrs C had agreed to. The PCP agreement also breaks down the total amount 
payable for the car and for the VAPS, with a total amount payable of £16,262.87 for the car 
and £1,135.13 for the VAPS. This corresponds exactly with the information contained in the 
pre-contract information, which Mrs C has confirmed shes been provided with. The PCP 
agreement also shows the two monthly repayments that will be taken for each agreement  
again, these figures are the same as on the pre-contract information.
The PCP agreement also confirms how much Mrs C has to have paid if she wants to 
voluntary terminate the agreement and return the car early. It states that she must have paid 
at least half of the total amount payable and confirms this to be £8,131.44. The Termination: 
your rights section of the agreement explains that FCA are entitled to the return of the 
Goods once half the total amount payable has been paid. So, Im satisfied that this only 
applies to half the total amount payable for the car and FCA are entitled to ask Mrs C to 
settle the outstanding amount for the VAPS. 
Mrs C has told our service that she never received the full terms and conditions until she 
complained to FCA. And it was only at that point that she was aware of clause 14, which 
confirms she has taken out separate agreements, and that the loan for any VAPS would 
have to be settled in full if the hire purchase agreement was voluntary terminated. Im not 
able to make a decision on that, as A havent confirmed if the full terms and conditions were 
made available to Mrs C in May 2016. But, even if Mrs C hadnt seen them, Im still 
persuaded that the pre-contract information and the corresponding PCP agreement are clear 
and show there are two separate agreements, and that the requirement for Mrs C to pay at 
least half the total amount payable in the event of voluntary termination only applies to the 
car, and doesnt apply to the VAPS. 
Warranty
Mrs C is unhappy as she says she wasnt told that the warranty shed accepted from A didnt 
start until May 2019, although she began paying for it from the start of the PCP. Shes said 
that it was always her intention to return the car after three years, and not to finish the 
agreement, so she was never going to need the warranty A sold to her. I havent seen 
anything from A to confirm Mrs C made them aware of her intention so I cant say the 
warranty was mis-sold to her. 
The warranty paperwork explains that it will begin on the same day any car manufacturer 
warranty expires. So, I think Mrs C would have been reasonably aware of this when 
agreeing to add it to her agreement. The paperwork also confirms the start date of the 
warranty as 12 May 2019, exactly three years from the date Mrs C acquired the car. This 
has been agreed and signed by Mrs C, so I cant conclude she wasnt aware of the terms of 
the warranty. 
Mrs C voluntary terminated the hire purchase agreement in August 2019, so has had some 
benefit of the warranty too. I dont think shes been treated unreasonably here. Paint protection
Mrs C has said she doesnt believe the paint protection policy is a service, as she feels it 
adds value to the car and should therefore be included in the total price payable. Shes also 
said the paint protection wasnt included on the vehicle order form from A so shouldnt have 
been included in the PCP.
I disagree that the policy adds value to the car. The paint protection policy is in place to help 
rectify or re-treat the car free of charge if it shows signs of general colour fading or the finish 
to the car noticeably deteriorates, so its a service that Mrs C has agreed to. Because of that, 
it follows that Im satisfied it should be included in the VAPS loan agreement and not in the 
hire purchase agreement. 
Having looked at the vehicle order form, Im satisfied the paint protection policy is there. It is 
shown as <A> protect and included some car mats as part of the price. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that FCA havent been unfair or 
unreasonable to Mrs C by asking her to pay the VAPS fixed-sum loan agreement in full 
following voluntary termination.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman