DRN-2519543
The complaint
Mr T complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
From at least May 2018, Mr T had a British Gas Homecare agreement. We categorise that 
as a home emergency insurance policy although it isnt just for emergencies.
The agreement covered repairs to central heating and plumbing and drains (as well as home 
electrics). Each claim was subject to an excess or fixed fee of £60.00.
British Gas Insurance Limited was the insurance company responsible for dealing with 
claims. Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to that insurance company and I include its 
plumbing and drains company and others insofar as I hold that insurance company 
responsible for their actions.
British Gas visited Mr Ts home in March 2019. The agreement was renewed in May 2019.
In November 2019, Mr T reported a water leak. British Gas visited again and replaced a 
combi valve. Mr T complained that British Gas had failed to see the leak on the earlier visit, 
resulting in high water bills.
After Mr T chased up his complaint, British Gas wrote a final response in about May 2020.
British Gas paid Mr T about £132.00 compensation for wasted water and £30.00 for the 
inconvenience caused. 
In June 2020, Mr T again reported a leak. On 10 June 2020 a British Gas plumber visited 
and said the leak was from the central heating system. So a British Gas heating engineer 
visited and did a repair. Mr T paid £60.00
But the next day 11 June 2020, Mr T reported that the leak was still showing. Mr T 
complained that the engineer on 10 June had been unprofessional and careless. Another 
British Gas engineer visited and replaced different parts.
Mr T complained that there had been unproductive visits, causing him anxiety about Covid 
and  on 11 June  a loss of earnings.
On 10 July British Gas wrote another final response. It offered £50.00 towards ceiling 
damage and £80.00 for inconvenience. It said it was sending Mr T a cheque for £130.00.
Unhappy with the British Gas final responses of May and July 2020, Mr T brought his 
complaints to us in early August 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaints should be upheld. She thought that 
British Gas had offered a fair outcome for the distress, inconvenience and frustration 
caused. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He suffered a loss of earnings.
British Gas should pay more compensation for inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British Gas policy terms included the following:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks
So British Gas excluded responsibility for water leaks unless they were caused by British 
Gas. 
From what Mr T and British Gas have each said, his tank had a leak in 2019. I find it 
inevitable that this was going to cause Mr T some inconvenience. Theres not enough 
evidence for me to say that British Gas shouldve found the leak when it visited in March 
2019. Also, I havent seen any water bills.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay any more than it has already 
paid for wasted water and inconvenience up to the British Gas visits in November 2019.
I havent seen enough evidence to say that British Gas shouldve done anything more or 
differently in November 2019.
I accept that on 10 June 2020 there was one unproductive visit by a British Gas plumber. 
And I accept that this caused Mr T some concern about Covid.
But I accept that on the same day the British Gas heating engineer saw a water leak from 
the automatic air vent (AAV) in Mr Ts airing cupboard. Im satisfied that he replaced the AAV 
(including using PTFE tape).
I dont doubt Mr T was disappointed to find wetness the next day. He had to arrange another 
visit from British Gas. A British Gas engineer replaced a hot water valve. 
Theres not enough evidence to say that the engineer couldve or shouldve replaced that 
valve the day before. And theres not enough evidence to say that British Gas caused water 
damage.
I find that Mr T only paid one fixed fee or excess of £60.00 for the visits in June 2020. I dont 
find that unfair or unreasonable.
From an email, I accept that Mr T had cancelled an eight -hour shift for which he wouldve 
earned £640.00 on 11 June 2020. But Mr T has said he works as a locum. So I find it likely 
that he has an element of choice about when he works  and he was able to make up the time and money later. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to 
compensate him for loss of earnings.
I accept that British Gas was responsible for shortcomings in its service and that these 
caused Mr T some extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. Overall, Im 
satisfied that British Gas has paid Mr T enough to compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman