DRN-2394422
The complaint
 Mr C and Mrs M complain about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a theft 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
 Mrs Ms designer watch was stolen from a hotel room she was staying in. So she made a 
claim on her home insurance policy. She provided AXA with photo of herself wearing the 
watch, together with a bank statement showing the payment shed made for it to the online 
seller and a record of the sale.
AXA told Mrs M it didnt have enough information to decide if her claim should be paid. It 
asked her to provide the box the watch had come in, together with its serial number. This 
was so it could verify if the watch was authentic and so it could update the Art Loss Register. 
Mrs M told AXA she didnt have the box or the serial number. So AXA said it couldnt 
progress her claim any further, although it told her it hadnt decided to turn it down.
Mrs M wasnt happy with the way AXA had handled the claim. So she and Mr C asked us to 
look into their complaint. Mrs M told us the watch had come with a box, but shed thrown 
away all the packaging. And she felt that if AXA wanted to know a watchs serial number, it 
ought to have made this clear.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mrs Ms claim fairly. He noted AXA didnt have 
any concerns about whether or not Mrs M had owned the watch. Its concerns focused on 
whether it could authenticate it as a genuine designer model. He felt AXA couldve asked a 
brand specialist to look at the evidence Mrs M had provided to consider whether the watch 
could be authenticated. He was satisfied Mrs M had shown, on the face of things, that shed 
owned the designer watch and it was for AXA to show why the claim wasnt valid. And he 
also felt the policy didnt suggest that AXA required policyholders who owned expensive 
items to provide additional documentation to support their claim. So he recommended that 
AXA should consider Mrs Ms claim.
AXA disagreed. It said the photos didnt show this was a genuine designer watch. There was 
no benefit in sending them onto a brand specialist, as they werent close-up. This would also 
take several months and further delay the claim. It stated the onus was on a policyholder to 
substantiate their claim. It added that buying items from the internet could pose a higher risk 
of fake or counterfeit items being sold. It has a responsibility to update the Art Loss Register 
and the watch brand itself to prevent fraudulent claims. It said that if Mrs M provided further 
evidence to show the watch was authentic, it could proceed with the claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I think AXA now needs to assess this 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the policy terms 
and the available evidence to decide whether AXA has handled Mr C and Mrs Ms claim 
fairly.
Generally, its for a policyholder to show a loss thats covered by their policy happened. 
Once theyve done this, the onus switches to an insurer to either deal with a claim, or show 
its specifically excluded by the policy terms.
In this case, AXA seems to accept that Mrs Ms watch was stolen from a hotel room. She 
obtained a crime reference number and it appears the theft was reported to the hotel. Mr C 
and Mrs Ms policy covers theft claims and if a policyholders specifically paid for the cover, 
loss of personal possessions. So Im satisfied Mrs Ms shown, on the face of things, that 
shes suffered a loss due to something her policy covers. 
Ive turned to consider what evidence the terms of Mr C and Mrs Ms policy say a 
policyholder must provide to AXA in the event of a claim. The policy includes the following 
Claims Condition:
To help prove your claim your insurer may require you to provide original purchase receipts, 
invoices, bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets, photographs, utility bills, pre-
purchase surveys or plans and deeds of your property.
Mrs Ms been able to provide some evidence that she owned the watch that was stolen 
Shes provided photos of herself wearing the watch; evidence of the online purchase of it 
and the subsequent payment to the online seller. I appreciate AXA maintains it cant 
progress the claim without the box the watch came in and its serial number. It says without 
this evidence, it cant authenticate whether the watch is a genuine designer model. I can 
understand why it considers it needs this information and understand the claim couldve 
been progressed sooner if Mrs M had been able to provide it. Its unfortunate that Mrs M 
threw away the box and was never sent the relevant paperwork.
But having considered everything, I do think Mrs M has sought to provide AXA with all of the 
information she had available. And shes consistently explained that she cant provide the 
box or serial number. So Ive looked at the evidence AXA does have available. The online 
purchase took place on 12 October 2016. Mrs M was named as the purchaser and the item 
description is for the type of watch Mrs M is claiming for. Shes also provided a bank 
statement showing a payment for the amount shown on the purchase information on 13 
October 2016, to the seller named on the purchase confirmation. Mrs M has also provided 
photos which show her wearing a watch. And Ive noted that while AXAs jewellery specialist 
couldnt confirm whether or not the watch was authentic, it did say: 
We can confirm that the photos' properties where applicable show that they were taken pre-
loss, and do match the model of the watch listed.
AXAs aware of our longstanding approach to proof of ownership. We wont necessarily 
require a policyholder to provide strict proof of ownership of their claim. Photos or evidence 
of payment may often be sufficient evidence to show proof of ownership. I think Mrs M has 
now provided all of the evidence that she can and has shown, on the face of things, that she 
owned and paid for the watch shed claimed for. It doesnt seem shell be able to provide anything more.
Id also add that it was open to AXA to undertake further investigations about the watch if it 
considered this was necessary, including with the manufacturer to try and determine if the 
watch was authentic. But it chose not to do so. I also dont think the policy makes it clear 
enough that policyholders claiming for this type of item might need to keep more detailed or 
complete documentation in the event of a claim.
So overall, in these particular circumstances, I agree with the investigator that this claim now 
needs to be progressed. Its important I stress Im not telling AXA to pay Mrs Ms claim 
though - my role isnt to make AXAs decision for it. I think it now needs to weigh up all of the 
information and evidence it does have and consider the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. If it decides the claim isnt covered, it will need to tell Mr C and 
Mrs M which term in the policy its relied on to make this decision and why. If theyre 
unhappy with AXAs decision about the claim, it will be open to them to make a separate 
complaint to AXA about this. We may then be able to look into any further complaint for 
them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr C and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to now consider Mr C and Mrs Ms claim, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of their policy, based on the information it currently holds 
and to communicate its decision to them.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman