DRN-2884863
The complaint
Miss W complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) have declined her building 
warranty claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss W has said the cladding on her property is deteriorating in an area she says is 
housing what she believed to be a type of motor. She has provided photos of the 
area concerned
NHBC declined Miss Ws claim. They said the area of concern, in the photos Miss W 
provided, was an external vent cover and wasnt covered under the warranty. NHBC 
said this would be a maintenance issue that would fall to the homeowner to resolve
Ive looked at the relevant part of the warranty and what it covers and I can see it 
includes roof coverings
Ive looked at photos Miss W provided. The photo shows a structure with grill holes, 
which does appear to be of a different material to its surrounding area. The structure 
itself is showing signs of deterioration but from reviewing the information available Im 
more persuaded by what NHBC have said  that it is an external vent cover  and 
not roof covering. So Im not intending to interfere with their decision to decline 
Miss Ws claim
Miss W is also unhappy NHBC relied on the photos she provided to assess the claim 
and havent investigated by attending the property. Its not unusual in some 
circumstances for an insurer to decide claims in this way. And considering the 
information available, I dont think it was unreasonable for NHBC to do so in these 
circumstances
Miss W raised other issues relating to how NHBC have handled her complaint. She 
has also raised concerns about NHBC not responding to further points following their 
final response 
NHBC accepted they referenced something that wasnt related to her claim in their 
correspondence. However, I can see NHBC managed Miss Ws expectation early in 
the claim that it wouldnt be covered and pointed to the section of the policy that was 
relevant. NHBC also reiterated their stance in further communication, including in 
their final response.  So, although I appreciate Miss Ws comments and why she is 
frustrated, I dont think this affected the outcome of her claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman