DRN-3209365
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr Bs complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage they previously held with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They believe that Barclays unfairly charged them an early 
repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid the mortgage. They have said they were misled 
about porting the mortgage when it was sold to them, and this, along with Barclays current 
lending policies, caused them to incur the charge. 
What happened
In 2018 Mrs K and Mr B took out two mortgages with Barclays to purchase two BTL 
properties. They attached an interest rate product to each of the mortgages, which would 
expire both in 2023. An ERC was payable if either of the mortgages were paid off during the 
term. However, the interest rate products could be ported to a new mortgage in some 
circumstances.  This complaint relates to just one of those mortgages.
Mrs K and Mr B have told us that they recollect being told by the mortgage adviser that the 
mortgage would be easily portable and they would have up to six months between selling 
the property and completing on a new one to do so. They have said the adviser told them a 
mortgage application wouldnt be needed, as long as the new property was mortgageable 
and had the same value 
The relevant mortgage illustration Mrs K and Mr B were given before they decided to take 
out the mortgage confirmed that they were not given advice to take out the mortgage in 
question. The document also said:
What happens if you change property?
If you buy another Buy To Let property to replace this property, you can transfer (port) the 
mortgage interest rate to a new Buy To Let mortgage for the purchased property in relation 
to an amount no greater than your outstanding Buy To Let mortgage balance provided that 
you meet the lending criteria in force at the time that you ask to transfer the mortgage rate to 
your new property. Please note that Barclays reserves the right to amend its lending criteria 
from time to time without notice to you. A Mortgage Exit fee will be payable and an early 
repayment charge may be payable in respect of the Buy To Let mortgage that is being 
redeemed.
The mortgage offer subsequently sent to Mrs K and Mr B said the same thing. 
Mrs K and Mr B have told us they decided to sell the property in 2020 to release equity to 
assist with their finances. They paid an ERC when the mortgage was paid off, but they 
expected it to be refunded when they bought their replacement property. Mrs K and Mr B 
told us that two months after theyd sold the property, theyd found another identical one for 
which they needed the same size mortgage. At that point, Barclays informed them they 
would have to make a new mortgage application and were required to have an income of at 
least £25,000 (and their rental income couldnt be included in that amount). Due to the 
income requirements, they were unable to apply for a new mortgage with Barclays and the 
ERC wasnt refunded. They complained.
Barclays responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that any mortgage on a 
new property required an application process to be gone through. In addition, it was satisfied 
that the ERC had been correctly applied. 
Mrs K and Mr B werent happy with Barclays response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They mentioned that the same adviser had made a mistake with the other buy-to-let 
mortgage theyd taken out in 2018. They put forward that the adviser hadnt classed them as 
professional landlords, which once this error was corrected, meant they had to pay an 
arrangement fee for an interest rate product. They said that if they had known they would 
have to pay the ERC they wouldnt have sold the property. Mrs K also explained the amount 
of additional stress this matter caused to her and the family.
Barclays provided a copy of the complaint information relating to the mistake made in 2018. 
It showed that the mistake at that time was to do with the interest rate product. Sometime 
had elapsed between the start of the application process and the application being 
submitted. By the time the application was submitted, the rate Mrs K and Mr B had wanted 
was no longer available. However, that was not picked up by its member of staff as it should 
have been. Barclays offered compensation for that mistake. Mrs K and Mr B then had to 
select a different interest rate product from the range then currently available to those with a 
portfolio of properties. The product they chose had a fee attached to it, but the interest rate 
was lower than the one they had previously selected.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He highlighted that Barclays hadnt recommended the mortgage to them; that it 
hadnt provided advice before they applied. Rather Mrs K and Mr B had been given factual 
information and made their own assessment of whether the mortgage was the right one for 
them. He was also satisfied that the illustration and mortgage offer made it clear that porting 
depended on whether they met the lending criteria at the time they applied to do so. While 
he didnt doubt their recollection of the discussions that took place at the time, there was no 
further evidence that supported the recollection and the circumstances of the sale didnt 
either. 
Mrs K and Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They reiterated their comments 
about the mistake that had happened with the second mortgage they took out in 2018 and 
their recollections of what theyd been told about porting at that time. They also repeated 
their unhappiness about not being able to apply for the new mortgage with Barclays because 
it wouldnt take account of their rental income. Mrs K said that despite what Barclays had 
told us, she did contact it before they sold the property to check the requirements for porting. 
She has said she was told that as long as the property price was the same and their 
incomes were £25,000 each, the port would be agreed. They said they believe that Barclays 
had been changing the rules throughout so that it could apply charges and make more 
money out of the transactions. 
The investigator considered the further comments, but they didnt change his mind. He again 
highlighted that the information provided at the time of the sale of the mortgage said that 
Mrs K and Mr B would need to meet the lending criteria in place at the time. It wasnt 
unreasonable that Barclays would apply its current lending criteria to any new application.  
Mrs K and Mr B asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and whyAs our investigator explained, due to Barclays response to Mrs K and Mr Bs 2018 
complaint, I wont be commenting on that complaint. However, I have summarised the final 
response letter above, and it would appear that the compensation payment they remember 
being paid was due to a slightly different reason from the one they recollect. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator highlighted, the mortgage in question wasnt recommended to Mrs K and 
Mr B by Barclays. That means that they had the responsibility to ensure they correctly 
understood the mortgage they were applying for and that it was suitable for their needs and 
future plans.
I would firstly explain that Mrs K and Mr B were not able to port their mortgage. As the 
documentation they were given before they applied for the mortgage and accepted the offer 
in 2018 explained, the item being ported was the fixed interest rate product that sat on top of 
the mortgage, not the mortgage itself. It was made clear that porting of the interest rate 
product was subject to Barclays lending criteria being met for the new property.
While Mrs K and Mr B recall being told they wouldnt have to apply for a mortgage on the 
new property, and I dont doubt this is their understanding from the time, I find it unlikely they 
would have been told that by Barclays. As I have said above, it was not the mortgage that 
was portable, but only the interest rate product, so an application for a new mortgage would 
always be needed. This enables the lender to assess whether the new property is suitable 
security and whether the applicants also fit with the criteria the lender has in place at the 
time. That said, Mrs K and Mr B wouldnt have had to submit any form of separate 
application to port the interest rate product, this would be done by them simply asking for it 
to be, if a new mortgage application was accepted. 
I note that Mrs K and Mr B are unhappy about their understanding that their rental income 
couldnt be taken into account if they had submitted a new mortgage application. A lender 
will set its lending criteria to reflect the risks it is willing to take at a particular point. That 
criteria will usually change over time and those changes are a matter of the lenders 
commercial discretion. The fact that Barclays may have decided that a small landlord needs 
to have the income to support a mortgage in the situation where the property isnt generating 
an income, would be considered a matter of its commercial discretion. As long as a lender is 
applying its criteria consistently to customers with the same circumstances, this isnt 
something we would interfere with. So, I am satisfied that Barclays would have been entitled 
to apply its current lending criteria to any application they might have made.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Mrs K and Mr B were misled by Barclays in 2018 regarding 
porting their interest rate product to a new mortgage on a different property. As such, I dont 
consider it needs to refund the ERC charged when the mortgage was paid off in 2020.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs K and Mr B to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 February 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman