DRN-2370503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are complaining that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont allow 
them to reduce the term on their mortgage following a capital repayment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G arranged a buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest through a financial intermediary. 
The mortgage terms and conditions allow Mr and Mrs G to overpay their mortgage by 10% 
annually without incurring any fees.
Mr and Mrs G paid 10% off the capital of their loan, and NatWest reduced their monthly 
payments to reflect the lower amount of interest theyd pay going forwards. Mr and Mrs G 
would prefer to keep their payments at the original higher rate and reduce the term of their 
borrowing instead. NatWest says this isnt something it offers, and this is made clear in the 
terms and conditions for the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs G complained, saying they asked their intermediary for a mortgage they could 
pay off as soon as possible, but NatWest didnt change its stance.
We were asked to review the complaint. Our investigator noted that this mortgage had been 
provided by NatWest but any recommendation came from the intermediary. He thought 
NatWest was able to say, fairly, that it didnt allow term reductions following capital 
repayments and it had been for Mr and Mrs G and their intermediary to decide if this 
particular mortgage suited them.
Mr and Mrs G dont think the terms and conditions were clear and want NatWest to allow 
their request  or change the product to one that suits them better.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Its clear from the mortgage offer that the recommendation for this mortgage product 
came from the intermediary, not NatWest.
That means NatWest doesnt have to ensure the mortgage meets Mr and Mrs Gs 
needs  it just has to provide enough information for them to make an informed 
choice. 
NatWest set the mortgage up as requested by Mr and Mrs G through their 
intermediary.
The mortgage is one where the interest rate is fixed for a period of time. Such 
mortgages, which provide certainty of costs for budgeting, are often less flexible in 
other areas  at least until the fixed rate period ends, which in this case is 2023. Its 
not uncommon for them to restrict overpayments and/or changes to the term of the 
mortgage. 
The terms and conditions dont say specifically that a term reduction following a 
capital overpayment isnt available. But they do say clearly that NatWest can change 
the monthly repayment amount after an overpayment. I cant conclude that NatWest 
hasnt followed the terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs G do get the benefit of the capital reduction as interest is lowered 
immediately the payment clears. So they are paying less towards the overall cost of 
the mortgage.
I understand Mr and Mrs G previously had a mortgage with another lender who did 
allow a term reduction. But individual lenders including NatWest make commercial 
decisions about the conditions that apply to their own products. That isnt something 
it would be appropriate for me to challenge.
Mr and Mrs G say the paperwork they got when they took out the mortgage didnt 
alert them to the fact that the option of term reductions wasnt available. Id think if 
this was very important  as they say it was  it would be something theyd check 
with their financial intermediary. I dont know if they did that, but I cant comment 
further about this as this decision is about what NatWest did  not the intermediary.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman