DRN-3707379
The complaint
Miss P complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Ltd.
What happened
On 15 January 2022 Miss P took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse for a used 
car. The car was over five years old and had travelled approximately 51,574 miles. The cash 
price was £6,999.
Miss P says she soon noticed the car wasnt going into gear smoothly, and that a dashboard 
light had come on. She took the car back to the dealer on 29 January 2022. 
Miss P says the dealer told her there was nothing wrong with the car. But she says the 
dealer gave her a customer care report which confirmed theyd repaired a fault. 
On 3 February 2022 Miss P complained to Black Horse, saying she wanted to terminate the 
agreement. They responded, saying they hadnt upheld her complaint because no evidence 
had been provided to suggest the car wasnt fit for purpose. But they said that, if Miss P sent 
mechanical evidence of a fault, theyd consider it further. 
Miss P says she obtained a diagnostic report from a mobile mechanic  and that this showed 
there was still a fault with the car. She forwarded copies of the reports from the dealer and 
the mobile mechanic to Black Horse. They still didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint, so she 
asked us to look into it. 
Our investigator didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
But she thought the repair that had already taken place had fixed the issue, so she didnt 
think Black Horse should have to do anything more.
Miss P disagreed. She said Black Horse had breached the agreement by supplying a faulty 
car that needed repair, so she felt this gave her the right to reject it. She said the mobile 
mechanic had confirmed there was still a fault. She offered to send further evidence.
Our investigator asked Miss P to send in all the evidence shed got about the issues with the 
car, but we didnt receive anything more from her. As Miss P didnt agree with our 
investigators view, the case has come to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ps complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Miss Ps concerns about Black Horse.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, 
mileage, and history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car supplied to Miss P was over five years old and had 
covered around 51,574 miles. It cost £6,999, which represents a significant reduction on 
what the car wouldve cost new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same 
standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I think a buyer would probably expect parts of the car to have suffered some wear and tear - 
and wouldnt necessarily expect it to be in great condition. But I think theyd still expect the 
car to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be able to 
drive it for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Miss P says she should have the right to reject the car because she had problems with it 
within the first couple of weeks. I appreciate she feels very strongly about this. So, my 
starting point is to consider whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her. 
Ive seen a copy of the customer care report the dealer gave Miss P, dated 16 February 
2022. It records the cars mileage to have been 51,899 at the start of their inspection, so I 
can see the car had only travelled around 325 miles since it was supplied to Miss P. The 
report says she reported the following faults:
1) Its difficult to get the vehicle into 1st gear  intermittent issue
2) The EML light has appeared on the dashboard causing the vehicle to go into limp 
mode.
The next section of the report details work carried out. It says:
The technician removed the gear linkages and also removed the plastic selector off the 
top of the gear box. The plastic selector was stiff due to oxidation. Removed the oxidation 
and greased up the plastic selector we also greased up the cables. Put the vehicle back 
together and now works as it should.
Ive seen no supporting evidence to confirm that the engine management light (EML) was 
coming on, or that the car was going into limp mode. But I can see that Miss P told the 
dealer she sometimes found it difficult getting the car into first gear  and that the dealer did 
some work to resolve this. So, Im satisfied there was a fault. And bearing in mind how 
quickly Miss P reported it, I think this issue was most likely to have been present when she 
got the car. 
But I have to bear in mind that this car was over five years old and had travelled over 51,500 
miles when it was supplied to Miss P. As Ive explained, I think its reasonable to expect a car of that age and mileage to have some parts that may be showing some signs of wear. 
The dealers evidence shows the intermittent difficulty in selecting first gear was resolved 
simply by removing oxidation and applying lubrication. So, I dont consider this to have been 
a significant fault. And Im not persuaded that this fault meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss P.
As I dont think the fault with first gear selection meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, it 
follows that I dont think Miss P had the right to reject the car for this. Im pleased to see the 
dealer repaired this issue for her free of charge.
Miss P says the car still had a fault after the dealer returned it to her - and that the 
dashboard warning light was still on. Ive reviewed the diagnostic report shes shown us. I 
note that this document doesnt include any information about the mechanic who produced 
it. Miss P says it was provided by a mobile mechanic on 10 March 2022.
The diagnostic report says the car had covered 52,244 miles by this time, so I can see it had 
travelled around 670 miles since it was supplied to Miss P. It says:
There are 2 issues for:
1. Tire pressure warning
2. Function restriction  due to insufficient voltage.
It doesnt say whether the car was actually displaying a warning, or if these were stored fault 
codes. It gives no further information about these issues - such as whether there were any 
faults that needed to be repaired. 
In the absence of any further information, Id generally expect a tyre pressure warning to 
come on because the tyres need inflating to the correct pressure. Ensuring tyres are inflated 
to the correct pressure is a routine maintenance requirement, so I wouldnt consider this to 
be a fault. 
Ive seen no evidence to explain the function restriction issue the mobile mechanic 
mentioned. Im not persuaded that this comment shows there was a problem with the car 
that needed to be repaired. And I note that Miss P hasnt provided us with any more 
evidence about this. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss P. It follows that I dont intend to direct Black Horse to do anything more to 
resolve her complaint. 
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I invited both parties to send me any further 
information or comments theyd like me to consider before I made my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Black Horse made no further comment.
Miss P provided further information, which Ill summarise:
She knew this was a second-hand car and had done over 50,000 miles but she still 
expected it to run and perform satisfactorily  especially for the first six months.
She noticed the gears werent working properly the first time she drove the car, which 
was only a short distance. Within a week, after driving the car on longer journeys, the 
problems got worse. A dashboard light came on and the car went into limp mode a 
few times. After noticing the car was faulty Miss P took legal advice. She was told she had the 
right to reject the car as its not of satisfactory quality. She took the car back within 30 
days of purchase, but the company wouldnt uphold her complaint. 
Black Horse didnt acknowledge there was a fault. The garage mechanic failed to 
communicate that hed carried out a repair. So, Miss P provided a copy of the report 
shed been given by the dealer, evidencing the repair theyd carried out.
Black Horse refused to accept the report from the dealer, but they said theyd 
reconsider if she produced further evidence. So, Miss P had to collect the car and 
take it to a mobile mechanic for diagnosis. The dashboard light was still on, and the 
diagnosis showed faults. Miss P sent the mobile mechanics report and contact 
number to Black Horse, but they ignored her letters.
She returned the car to the dealer on 26 March 2022 and made a notification 
declaring the car to be off the road. 
Miss P concluded that Black Horse disregard normal customer service standards to 
make money. She feels standards and regulations should be reviewed periodically to 
ensure all companies comply. 
Miss P provided another copy of the mobile mechanics diagnostic report, together with 
copies of her letters of complaint to Black Horse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Miss P for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. I want to 
reassure her that Ive given careful thought to the comments and documents shes provided. 
But Ive seen no new evidence to persuade me that I should depart from my provisional 
findings. 
I appreciate Miss P feels she should have the right to reject the car. Shes told us it was 
going into limp mode soon after she got it. But as I explained in my provisional decision, Ive 
seen no supporting evidence to confirm that the EML was coming on, or that the car was 
going into limp mode. Although the dealers customer care report confirms Miss P reported 
this to have happened, it makes no reference to any fault being found that might cause this 
kind of problem. 
Similarly, Im not persuaded that the diagnostic report Miss P obtained from the mobile 
mechanic shows there was a problem with the car that needed to be repaired. My reasons 
for saying this are set out in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat that here. 
I can see that the dealers mechanic carried out a repair to resolve the intermittent difficulty 
Miss P had experienced when selecting first gear. As Ive explained, I dont consider this to 
have been a significant fault. And Im not persuaded that this fault meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss P.
Ive seen that Black Horse issued a final response to Miss Ps complaint on 11 February 
2022. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Black Horse needed to do anything more. 
So, I dont consider them to have done anything wrong by failing to respond to Miss Ps 
further correspondence about her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman