DRN-3155671
The complaint
Ms C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view of
this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The relevant 
legislation also says that when we consider whether a car is of satisfactory quality we should
consider whether it has proven to be durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms C. The car here was about
four years old but had completed less than average mileage. The mileage on the car was
about 16,889. I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear on a car of that
age and mileage, but I dont think theyd expect the car to experience intermittent power
loss.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Ms C first reported a loss of power with the car on the day she collected it. She explained
that the Engine Management Light (EML) and Electronic Stability Programme (ESP)
warnings had illuminated, the car had lost power and gear changes were sluggish. The
dealer identified a battery fault and carried out a repair. I think its likely that fault was present
when the car was supplied as Miss C had only just collected it and because neither
Moneybarn nor the dealership have disputed that.
When there is a fault with a car that is present at the point of supply and thats reported in
the first 30 days, the consumer can reject the car without giving the business an opportunity
to fix it. But here Ms C has explained she was happy to have it repaired.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at
the point of supply. If that repair fails they should allow a rejection of the vehicle and if a
further fault becomes apparent, that was present or developing when the car was supplied,
the business dont need to be given a chance to repair that fault.
When the car broke down again in December 2019, Ms C explained that the EML and ESP
lights had again illuminated and the car had again lost power. An injector was replaced but I
cant see that Ms C was given the option to reject the car at that point and, as this was a
subsequent failure that, given its proximity to the point of supply, was likely to have been
present or developing when the car was provided to Ms C, I think the business should have
allowed her to reject it.
So, I think Ms C should have been allowed to reject the car in December 2019.
In January 2020 there were further problems with the car which were again reported by
Ms C. She reported that the ESP and EML lights were on again and the car had gone into
limp mode. At this point Ms C also reported problems with the parking sensors.
A report Ms C obtained in January 2020 from a local garage showed there were numerous
fault codes. Some of those codes related to the crankshaft position sensor which was a fault
code the second independent inspector noted subsequently during his May 2020 inspection.
Ms C had only covered about 2,600 miles in the car when the garage provided that report in
January 2020, so I think its likely the fault codes were being generated by a fault that was
present at the beginning and that hadnt been diagnosed. The independent inspector noted it
four months later and I think that supports the suggestion that Ms C has been experiencing
problems, albeit intermittently, from the beginning.
Whilst I understand the fault codes werent present when the first independent inspection
was completed that may well have been because they were cleared by the garage who
completed the diagnostic. The fault codes are reported to be intermittent fault codes and as 
such I can understand that they may not have occurred in the 46-mile test drive completed
by the first independent inspector.
So, this is another reason why I think repairs have failed and Moneybarn should allow Ms C
to reject the car.
When Ms C reported issues to Moneybarn in January 2020 she also mentioned that there
was a fault with the parking sensors. The independent inspector also identified a fault with
the parking sensors when he examined the car in May 2020. It seems likely this is the same
fault, given the fact that Ms C identified it so early on. In isolation I may have considered it
disproportionate to reject the car just because the parking sensor wasnt working. But in
tandem with the other faults I think it is yet more evidence of the faults this car has had from
the beginning.
And, even if Im wrong about all of those matters, I dont think this car has been suitably
durable. It had completed less than 17,000 miles when Ms C took receipt of it and the faults
have led Ms C to take it off the road. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car ofthis age and mileage to experience significant issues with the engine and gearbox. I think
theyd consider the car not to be suitably durable and thats another reason I believe this car
has not been of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should collect the car at no cost to Ms C and they should end the finance
agreement.
The agreement doesnt list any deposit for Moneybarn to refund.
Moneybarn should refund all the finance instalments paid by Ms C and waive any that were
due but havent been paid up to the point this complaint is settled. But its only fair that Ms C
pays for the use she has had from the car and the relevant legislation allows the business to
retain a portion of the money paid by a consumer in respect of that.
Ms C took the car off the road; it was SORN in May 2020. I can see that Ms C was able to
use the car up to that point as the mileage Ms C completed was in excess of what would be
considered average mileage. So, Moneybarn can retain any instalments paid or due up to
May 2020 but should waive or refund any others. They should add 8% interest to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement as Ms C has been deprived of that
money.
But whilst Ms C was able to drive the car I think the issues she has experienced with it will
have impacted on her enjoyment of the vehicle. This car had completed less than 17,000
miles when it was supplied to Ms C and I think a reasonable person would have expected
relatively trouble-free driving. Theres evidence there have been consistent problems with
the car from the start of the agreement in November 2019 and those issues have led Ms C
to take the car off the road. I think its likely Ms C would never have felt comfortable that a
journey could be completed without incident. In those circumstances I think Moneybarn
should refund, or waive, 10% of the finance instalments Ive suggested its fair for them to
charge.
Ms C has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the
dealership on several occasions and has had to make arrangements to allow a couple of
independent inspections to take place. Shes broken down on the motorway and also when
away on holiday when she had to wait some time for the car to be recovered. And shes also
had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
In those circumstances I think Moneybarn should pay her £400 in compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms C has stopped paying for the car, but it wouldnt be fair for Moneybarn to make adverse
reports to her credit file here as Im persuaded this car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
1. end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Ms C;
2. refund all finances instalments paid or waive any that were due but havent been
paid, in respect of loss of use Ms C has experienced. Moneybarn can retain
instalments paid or due from the beginning of the agreement to the start of May 2020
when the car was taken off the road. This is to compensate them for the usage Ms C
has had from the car. They should add 8% simple interest per year to any refundfrom the date of payment to the date of settlement;
3. refund, or waive, 10% of any money retained (as detailed in 2.) in respect of the loss
of enjoyment Ms C has experienced;
4. pay Ms C £400 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
5. remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Cs credit file in relation to
this agreement;
6. agree a reasonable repayment plan with Ms C for any payments still outstanding
when this redress is completed.
Ms C said she should be compensated for being without the car since March 2020. She 
explained this had hindered her and her familys daily life as she relied on the car to 
transport her children, two of whom were disabled. She said that shed been unable to have 
holidays because she didnt have a car that worked. 
Moneybarn explained that Ms C hadnt made any payments towards her agreement and 
provided a calculation of how they thought I was asking them to apply the redress in my 
provisional decision. They wanted clarification that this was a correct interpretation of that 
redress.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded to ask Moneybarn to provide any more compensation than I had 
suggested in my provisional decision. Whilst I understand these issues were distressing and 
inconvenient for Ms C I think £400 is sufficient in the circumstances.
Ive reviewed Moneybarns calculations I think theyre in line with what I was suggesting in 
my provisional decision. In particular as I am asking them to ..retain instalments paid or due 
from the beginning of the agreement to the start of May 2020 if Ms C hasnt paid anything 
towards her agreement she may still have an amount to pay towards those months of usage 
although as Ive also mentioned, I would ask Moneybarn to establish and affordable for any 
payments still outstanding.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
1. end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Ms C;
2. refund all finance instalments paid or waive any that were due but havent been
paid, in respect of the loss of use Ms C has experienced. Moneybarn can retain
instalments paid or due from the beginning of the agreement to the start of May 2020
when the car was taken off the road. This is to compensate them for the usage Ms C
has had from the car. They should add 8% simple interest per year to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
3. refund, or waive, 10% of any money retained (as detailed in 2.) in respect of the lossof enjoyment Ms C has experienced;
4. pay Ms C £400 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
5. remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Cs credit file in relation to
this agreement;
6. agree a reasonable repayment plan with Ms C for any payments still outstanding
when this redress is completed.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman