DRN-3076372
The complaint
Mr N complains that a course he has been financing through an agreement with Caledonian 
Consumer Finance Ltd (Caledonian) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr N, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr N made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
If Mr N was provided with a false statement of fact and if that false statement led him to enter 
into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had 
been misrepresented to him and Id ask Caledonian to take some action.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence Mr N was provided with a false statement 
of fact.
Mr N says that he was told by the sales agent that the course could be completed in nine 
months and that there were numerous practical workshops available that he could book 
when he liked. He says none of that was true.
I dont have a record of what was said when Mr N signed up for the deal and the supplier 
disputes Mr Ns summary. So, Ive considered the paperwork as I think its reasonable to 
suggest that when Mr N signed it he was confirming hed read and agreed to it.
The terms explain that the course can be completed in 12 to 36 months and Im not therefore 
persuaded there is sufficient evidence Mr N was told he could complete the course more 
rapidly.
They also say:
the location and time of my practical sessions will be agreed and advised at the point in my 
self-study program where I become eligible and meet the appropriate requirements as 
highlighted in the Plan of the Course.
Its my understanding that Mr N has subsequently become eligible to book his practical 
workshops and that places have been made available. Caledonian have explained that Mr N 
has booked places on them but has not attended. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest 
that what was suggested in the contract was wrong. It seems that when eligible, and at a 
venue of the suppliers choice, the location and time of the practical courses was provided.
I understand that the courses werent close to Mr N. But I cant see that the business 
guaranteed the location and I think they were reasonable when they provided a little extra 
money to cover Mr Ns additional expenses. Had the course location been completely 
unreasonable I dont think Mr N would have registered for any of the practical courses.
Overall, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence this course, or the agreement, 
has been misrepresented to Mr N and I dont therefore think Caledonian were unreasonable 
to reject his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman