DRN-3352461
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to 
decline his claim for damage to the common parts of the building, within which his flat is 
located. 
What happened
This complaint was originally brought to our service by the company that owns the freehold 
reversionary interest in the building, who Ill refer to as GC. However, GC is not a 
policyholder. Rather, the owners of the flats in the building are the policyholders, as it is the 
owners who benefit from the warranties provided by NHBC.
Mr G is an owner of a flat within the building that is the subject of this complaint. Mr G is 
represented in his complaint by the managing agent for the building, who Ill refer to as 
Ms W. Ms W is also representing five other owners (who are also policyholders) of flats in 
the building, who have separate, but the same, complaints with our service.
All of the owners are aware that what I say here, in respect of Mr Gs complaint will apply to 
the same complaints brought by the other five owners who are also represented by Ms W.
Mr Gs flat benefitted from a building warranty provided by NHBC from February 2011. Later 
in 2011, the owners made a claim on the warranty in relation to stone / mortar failure and 
cracking to the stone windowsill. NHBC investigated the claim and issued a resolution report 
on 22 July 2011 requiring the builder to carry out works to repair that damage and bring the 
relevant parts of the building into compliance with the applicable NHBC technical standards. 
In November 2012 NHBC made a cash settlement to cover the cost of repairs for the failing 
mortar. 
In April 2018 mortar fell from the north elevation of the building, leading to a claim being 
made with NHBC on 2 May 2018. The owners believed this to be a result of poor-quality 
work, or work that wasnt undertaken to the pointing and masonry at the time the building 
was converted.
NHBC inspected the damage on 20 June 2018. They rejected the claim on the basis that the 
common parts minimum claim value hadnt been met. In September 2018, the owners 
reported further mortar falls to NHBC and said the damage should be combined with that 
reported in the May 2018 claim. However, NHBC disagreed. They said the mortar failing in 
the joints notified to them in September, would need to be a new claim item with its own 
minimum claim value. As the affected area was a minor part of the building, NHBC said the 
claim wouldnt be accepted as it the damage didnt impair the structural stability or weather-
tightness of the building, and the repairs wouldnt meet the minimum claim value for the 
common parts. 
Mr G disagreed with NHBCs response for a number of reasons. First, he said the quotes the 
owners had obtained were close to, or in excess of, the minimum claim amount. They 
couldnt see how the level of mortar falls experienced, and in particular, the deterioration of 
the pointing, could fail to affect the structural stability and weathertightness of the building. 
And, despite the mortar falls occurring on different dates, Mr G felt they should be 
considered part of the same claim because they stemmed from the same cause, namely, 
inadequate work at the time of construction. 
Mr G was also unhappy with the time taken by NHBC to respond to the owners 
communications and progress the claim; he explained that the way NHBC had handled the 
claim had caused a significant amount of stress and unease to all of the residents. Mr G said 
that the freeholder company, GC (of which all the owners of the flats are shareholders) had 
paid £5,370 to repair the damage. In addition to refunding those repair costs, Mr G asked 
that a compensation payment be awarded which recognised the time and amount of 
correspondence the owners have had to be involved with to resolve the matter.
Ms W also said the owners felt the masonry defects posed a danger to life and they believed 
the exposure of insulating material where masonry had fallen off could be categorised as 
making the building unstable and weakening its structure and weather tightness.
After carrying out an investigation into the complaint, NHBC issued their final response on 
25 October 2019, not upholding it. The complaint handler concluded that the decision to 
decline the claim had been made correctly. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and issued her view not upholding the complaint 
on 15 October 2021. She concluded that NHBC had acted in accordance with the Buildmark 
policy terms and conditions in declining the claim on the basis, among other things, that the 
cost to repair the damage hadnt met the common parts minimum claim value. 
Ms W advised our investigator that Mr G and the other owners didnt accept her view, and 
had the following comments to make:
They felt that NHBC should at least offer an ex-gratia payment towards the works 
which they had already funded on health and safety grounds, given the then 
impending risk of further masonry falls.
They said NHBC had only said the works didnt meet the minimum claim value. 
However, no comment was given by NHBC as to the poor condition of the mortar on 
the building as a whole following the conversion of the building to its current use as a 
high end residential building. Works the owners say were completed under the NHBC 
Stewardship.
Mr G strongly believes that some of the mortar detachment exposed the underlying 
insulation of the building and affected the weatherproofing of that area. 
Ms W said the problem was part of the general cladding / mortar issue and therefore 
is part of the problem for which NHBC had already accepted responsibility. She went 
on to say that Mr G and the owners shouldnt be penalised because they were able 
to get a contractor to carry out the repair work using a more limited amount of 
scaffolding than originally envisaged. 
Our investigator considered the further comments but said they hadnt changed her view on 
the outcome. In particular, she said that Mr G hadnt provided any professional evidence to 
support his argument about the current and previous claims being the same, and she noted 
the fallen mortar which was the subject of the current claim, was in a different part of the 
building. 
Mr G requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
Mr G has raised a number of concerns about NHBCs decision to decline his claim. Ill 
address those concerns under the following headings: Was the damage caused by a defect 
in the common parts? Should the claims be considered as one claim and so meet the 
common parts minimum claim value? Is NHBC required to accept the claim on the basis that 
falling mortar represents a potential danger to life? 
In coming to my decision on this complaint, Ive first considered whether the damage 
claimed for is covered by the Buildmark policy.
Was the damage caused by a defect in the common parts? 
Mr G has claimed for damage caused to the external walls of the building caused by poor 
workmanship. He says the poor workmanship has resulted in mortar fall, issues with the 
pointing, and cracked windowsills. He also says it has impacted the weathertightness of the 
building. In addition, his representative commented that NHBC should be responsible for the 
poor condition of the mortar on the building as a whole following the conversion because the 
works were completed under NHBCs stewardship. 
I have considered these comments, however, while NHBC agreed to provide a warranty for 
the building, following the completion of its conversion for residential use, that doesnt mean 
NHBC is responsible for all of the works carried out by the builder. The warranty 
underwritten by NHBC doesnt cover everything that might go wrong with the building. The 
Buildmark policy sets out the terms of the agreement between NHBC and Mr G and details 
what is and is not covered by the warranty. The policy separates the cover into sections.
Because the damage claimed for, on this occasion, was notified to NHBC in year nine of the 
policy, the claim falls under section three which provides as follows:
3. What NHBC will pay for
A. The full Cost, if is more than £1,000 indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the houseor its 
Common Parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non load-bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
External render and external vertical tile hanging
Load-bearing parts of the roof
Tile and slate coverings to pitched roofs
Ceilings
Load-bearing parts of the floors
Staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these fail to support 
normal loads
Retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, 
flat or maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuildingDouble or triple glazing panes to external windows and doors
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible
The list of common parts covered by the Buildmark policy does include external render. 
However, subject to the common parts minimum claim value being met (£9,780), it is only 
Damage caused by a Defect in that listed part, that will be covered by the warranty. 
So, Ive next considered whether the damage to the external render was caused by a 
Defect. The policy provides the following definition of Defect: A breach of any mandatory 
NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed by him or acting for him. Failure to 
follow the guidance supporting the NHBC Requirements does not in itself amount to a 
Defect, as there may be other ways that the required performance can be achieved.
Mr G has submitted that the falling mortar and problems with the buildings masonry would 
affect the weather-tightness of the building. And while that may be the case, I havent been 
provided with any evidence to show that damage has been caused to the building as a result 
of a breach of NHBCs technical requirements in relation to the building being constructed so 
as to be weathertight (for example: 6.1  D.4  External walls shall be suitable for their 
exposure and resist the passage of moisture to the inside of the dwelling; and 6.1  D15  
Rendering, in conjunction with the surface to which it is applied, shall satisfactorily resist the 
passage of moisture). 
However, the technical requirements also include standards relating to the mortar being of 
an appropriate mix, and elements of the masonry complying with performance standards (for 
example: 6.1  D5  Mortar shall be of the mix proportions necessary to achieve adequate 
strength and durability and be suitable for the type of masonry; and 6.1  D8  Elements 
constructed of natural or case stone masonry shall comply with the performance standards 
for brick and block masonry, where applicable). 
The June 2018 resolution report explained that the main area of significant damage was to 
the top of the upper central stairwell window where a length of mortar had fallen away from 
the stone surround. The report went on to say that the mortar found indicated the repairs 
carried out were undertaken using a general cement mortar background with thin veneer of 
stone colour matched mortar to the face, and the backing used was shredded paper.
So, the report did identify damage to the building that appears to have been caused by a 
defect. However, NHBC declined the claim on the basis that it didnt meet the common parts 
minimum claim value. I will address that next.
Should the claims be considered as one claim and so meet the common parts minimum 
claim value? 
Page 20 of the Buildmark policy sets out the financial limits that apply to a claim relating to 
common parts. In particular, it says: 
The most we will pay for any claim relating to Common Parts will be the amount that 
you are legally liable to contribute towards the Cost of repairs. 
Further down the page it says: 
For claims under section 3A. if your share of the cost of repair is less than £1000 
Indexed, NHBC will not pay your share. 
After considering the various estimates provided by the owners, NHBC concluded that the 
cost of repairs wouldnt meet the minimum claim value of £9,780, and on that basis, declined the claim. The owners went ahead and had the repairs done, at a cost of £5,370. In the 
course of her investigation, our investigator informed the owners that NHBC would have 
considered paying one of the estimates theyd provided, as it was within £100 of the 
minimum claim value. However, as the actual cost was significantly less, that offer was 
withdrawn.
Mr G is unhappy that NHBC withdrew their offer of settling the claim on the basis of the 
closest estimate to £9,780, and said that had that offer been made at the time of the claim 
(rather than several years later when the complaint was being considered) the owners would 
have proceeded with that estimate. However, as the claim had been declined, and the works 
needed to be done, the owners decide to engage a contractor who managed to do the repair 
works at a reduced cost, due to being able to manage with less scaffolding than originally 
envisaged.
While I can appreciate Mr Gs view on this, I agree with our investigators conclusion that 
NHBC acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions when they declined the 
claim on the basis that the common parts minimum claim value hadnt been met. I think the 
most persuasive evidence of what the repair works would have cost, is the invoice the 
owners paid for the completed works. An estimate is just an appraisal of what the likely cost 
of completing the work would be. But once the work has been done, a definite figure is 
established. In this case the cost of repair was approximately £4,000 less than the common 
parts minimum claim value. I therefore consider NHBCs decision to decline Mr Gs claim 
was in line with the policy terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr Gs representative has also submitted that the mortar falls which occurred after the 
May 2018 claim, ought to be combined into the same claim, as they resulted from the same 
cause, which she believed would increase the repair cost to a level that would exceed the 
common parts minimum claim value. However, I disagree. As Ive explained, the repair costs 
only came to £5,370, so Im not persuaded that combining the repair costs for the April and 
September damage would have brought the cost of settling the claim above the common 
parts minimum claim value. 
Is NHBC required to accept the claim on the basis that falling mortar represents a potential 
danger to life?
Mr G has also said that the falling mortar was a danger to life, and as a result the owners 
proceeded to have the repairs done at their own cost. While I understand the owners 
concern about the risks associated with falling mortar, unless NHBC had carried out a 
building control function under section four of the policy, they were under no obligation to 
carry out repairs where there is a present or imminent danger to the physical health and 
safety of the occupants of the home. The policy schedule confirms that section four wasnt 
applicable to this building, as NHBC didnt carry out building control. I therefore dont agree 
that NHBC ought to have accepted the claim on the basis that falling mortar represented a 
health and safety danger.
In conclusion, while I accept that the damage was caused by a defect, as the cost of repair 
didnt meet the common parts minimum claim value, Im satisfied that NHBC acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions when it declined the claim. I therefore do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman