DRN-4214566
The complaint
Ms C complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided her with loans without carrying out proportionate checks. 
What happened
Ms C was granted four loans and Ive outlined her borrowing history in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £700.00 02/08/2018 29/08/2018 6 £195.50
2 £800.00 31/12/2018 15/07/2019 6 £225.20
3 £550.00 22/08/2019 13/12/2019 4 £208.13
4 £600.00 30/01/2020 15/07/2020 4 £215.49
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Ms C 
could afford them. However, as a gesture of goodwill, MoneyBoat said it would refund the 
interest applied to loan 4 which came to £261.95.  Unhappy with this response and offer, 
Ms C referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Later MoneyBoat told the Financial Ombudsman the offer it made in the complaint response 
letter was no longer available. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who partly upheld it. She didnt think 
MoneyBoat had done anything wrong when loans 1  3 were granted. But she did uphold 
loan 4. The adjudicator explained given the loan history further checks ought to have been 
carried out. Had MoneyBoat carried out the further checks it wouldve likely discovered Ms C 
didnt have sufficient disposable income to afford her repayments, once her other 
commitments were taken into account. The complaint was partly upheld. 
MoneyBoat didnt fully agree with the outcome it said the number of loans and the pattern of 
lending was considered and there wasnt rapid uptake in borrowing as there are gaps 
between some of the loans. The final loan also not Ms Cs largest capital amount. It also 
said, Its (sic) also reasonable to say that the loan was taken over a shorter period than 
earlier ones as customer had no issues with the payments being higher than they would 
have been if taken over six months
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Ms C could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Ms Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Ms Cs complaint and I agree, given the loan terms and loan values. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms C was able to repay 
her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings that she made, which included not 
upholding loans 1  3 and MoneyBoat has only queried the outcome reached for loan 4. In 
my view, loans 1  3 are no longer in dispute so I wont be making a finding about them. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether MoneyBoat did all it ought to have done before it 
approved loan 4.  
Loan 4
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Ms C for details of her income, which she 
declared as being £2,500 per month. MoneyBoat says the income figure was verified 
through a third-party report.  
Ms C also declared monthly outgoings of £950. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit search and from the Common Finance Statement, which could 
be used to adjust the declared expenditure Ms C provided. As a result, of this check, Ms Cs 
monthly expenditure wasnt increased any further.  
Just from the income and expenditure checks, MoneyBoat wouldve been confident that 
Ms C wouldve likely been able to afford his loan. Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
The credit check results showed that Ms C had debts of nearly £11,000 excluding her 
mortgage spread across twelve accounts. She had opened eight new accounts within the 
preceding six months and her Balance to limit ratio was recorded as 101% - indicating that 
overall Ms C was slightly over her credit limit on one or more accounts. But there were zero 
accounts showing as having been defaulted or entering delinquency within the previous 3 
years. 
MoneyBoat was given details of her active accounts and it knew of one payday loan and a 
number of longer-term loans called Finance House. The total repayments just to Ms Cs 
loans came to £829 per month. 
On top of this MoneyBoat also knew that Ms C had a mortgage, a mail order account and 
two credit cards  one of which she was £34 over her credit limit. Although, at the time, there 
wasnt any other adverse payment information being recorded about the credit card account. 
So, in addition to the loan history, MoneyBoat ought to have realised the amount Ms C 
declared her credit commitments of £100 was clearly not correct and there were signs that 
perhaps, given she was over her credit limits that she was starting to struggle with managing 
her existing credit commitments. This only adds to what Ive seen about the loan history to 
make me think further checks ought to have been carried out.
So, I do think further checks ought to have been carried out before loan 4 was granted. This 
was now the fourth time Ms C had taken a loan (and was her third instalment loan within a 
year) and while it wasnt the largest capital loan the fact that the payment was due over four 
months meant that overall, Ms Cs monthly commitment remained broadly similar to her 
other loans. 
I accept what MoneyBoat has said about the rapid uptake of lending, indeed, there is a gap 
of around six weeks since the last loan had been repaid, but in saying that Ms C was once 
again returning for a loan with a similar monthly commitment and as Ive said above, there 
were some indications from the credit report that perhaps Ms C was starting to have 
repayment problems. 
So, I do think, like the adjudicator that MoneyBoat ought to have done further, more in-depth 
checks before it approved loan 4. These further checks couldve been done a number of 
ways, it couldve asked for evidence of Ms Cs income, verification of her outgoings such as 
through asking to see copies of any bills or MoneyBoat couldve requested copy bank 
statements.
Ms C has provided copy bank statements from the time when loan 4 was advanced and so I 
think its entirely reasonable to consider these statements in order to see what MoneyBoat 
may have discovered had it made better checks. 
Had MoneyBoat made better checks then it wouldve discovered what the adjudicator 
explained in her view. That the loan wasnt affordable for her. I say this because, Ms C had 
at least four outstanding payday loans at the time, costing just over £1,200 each month. The 
number of outstanding payday loans and the value of those payments is enough, in my view 
to solely uphold the complaint because it showed that Ms C was having problems managing her money to the extent that she needed to continue to borrow from other lenders, so the 
loan wasnt likely to be sustainable for her. 
I can also see the living costs that the adjudicator explained in her assessment, including 
mortgage, utilities, council tax, food and a number of different insurances. And so, adding up 
the costs that I can see Ms C had, I also think the loan wasnt affordable as well. 
It therefore follows that I am upholding Ms Cs complaint about loan 4 because further 
checks wouldve shown she couldnt afford the repayments and Ive outline below what 
MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 4 to Ms C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, I am satisfied that MoneyBoat shouldnt have granted loan 4. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything that has already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Ms C the total of A plus B. 
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file in 
relation to loan 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am partly upholding Ms Cs complaint. 
  
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Ms C as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman