DRN-3938699
The complaint
Mr E complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to apply a retrospective exclusion 
to his private medical insurance cover, and turn down his claim.
What happened
On 1 January 2022, Mr Es employer transferred their private medical insurance group policy 
to Aviva. Mr E was covered under the policy. 
Mr E later made a claim under the policy for treatment relating to back pain. Aviva thought 
Mr E had failed to make it aware he had back problems before the policy started. It applied a 
retrospective exclusion, and turned down the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr E brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Aviva to say a qualifying misrepresentation had occurred, and therefore turn 
down the claim. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A query has been raised as to whether this case should be considered under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), or the Insurance Act 2015. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract. The Insurance Act 2015 applies to non-consumer 
contracts and requires the insured to make a fair presentation of the risk. 
This is a group scheme, but CIDRA allows for it to be taken into account for group schemes, 
so long as the following criteria is met:
(a) a contract of insurance is entered into by a person (A) in order to provide cover for 
another person (C), or is varied or extended so as to do so,
(b) C is not a party to the contract,
(c) so far as the cover for C is concerned, the contract would have been a consumer 
insurance contract if entered into by C rather than by A, and
(d) C provided information directly or indirectly to the insurer before the contract was entered 
into, or before it was varied or extended to provide cover for C.
Im satisfied that the above has been met. Whilst I appreciate Mr E did not provide 
information directly to Aviva before the policy was taken out, the finance manager completed 
the application form on behalf of all persons to be insured. So I think its reasonable to say 
that Mr E provided information indirectly to Aviva. 
Ive therefore considered the matter in accordance with CIDRA.
Aviva says that the below question was answered incorrectly:
Are you aware of any person to be covered by this application who has received treatment 
or advice relating to any:

back problems 

in the last 6 months?
I think this was a clear question. The finance manager completed the form and answered 
no to the question.
The finance manager says he wasnt aware that Mr E had received treatment or advice 
relating to his back problems in the previous six months. But the application form also said:
The applicant must answer all questions and sign the declarations on behalf of the company 
and all persons to be insured.
and
You are signing this form on behalf of all persons to be covered
So Im satisfied that the finance manager acted on Mr Es behalf when completing the 
application. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr E had physiotherapy for his back in the six months 
before the policy started. Im therefore satisfied that there was misrepresentation, and the 
answer to the question should have been yes.
Avivas underwriters have said that, if the question had been answered correctly, they would 
have applied an exclusion to the policy for Mr Es back. This means the misrepresentation 
was qualifying, according to CIDRA. 
As Aviva has categorised the misrepresentation as careless, it is entitled to retrospectively 
apply the exclusion, which it has done. Mr Es claim falls under the exclusion, so I find it was 
reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim. 
For completeness though, even if I had considered the matter in accordance with the 
Insurance Act 2015, the outcome would be the same. Ill explain why. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015, the employer would be required to make a fair presentation 
of the risk to Aviva when taking out the policy. In other words, they needed to tell Aviva 
everything they knew, or ought to have known, that would influence it in deciding whether to 
accept the risk. 
The Insurance Act 2015 also says:
an insured ought to know what should reasonably have been revealed by a reasonable 
search of information available to the insured (whether the search is conducted by making 
enquiries or by any other means) information includes information held within the insureds organisation or by any other 
person (such as the insureds agent or a person for whom cover is provided by the contract 
of insurance).
Based on this I think the employer ought to have made enquiries of Mr E to establish 
whether he had received treatment or advice for his back in the previous six months. In other 
words, they ought to have known this information. It therefore follows that the employer 
didnt make a fair presentation of the risk to Aviva.
As Ive said, if Aviva had known of Mr Es treatment for his back in the six months before the 
policy was taken out, it would have applied an exclusion for his back. That means the breach 
is qualifying, according to the Insurance Act 2015. The remedy available to Aviva in such 
circumstances is that it can apply the exclusion retrospectively, which it has done.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman