DRN-2965714
The complaint
Mr A complains that TenetConnect Services Limited mis-sold him a level term assurance 
policy (LTA or policy). And he wasnt aware it had been sold to him.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in July 2021 explaining why I didnt think Mr As complaint 
should be upheld. Tenet said it had nothing further to add. Mr A responded disagreeing with 
my provisional findings. In summary, he said:
The main issue isnt the mis-sale of the policy but rather he wasnt aware the policy 
had been sold to him;
He says at no time was critical illness cover and/ or payment protection discussed;
He accepts life assurance is not compulsory but he was informed it was;
He already had an adequate endowment policy in place with another business to 
protect his family;
The rental income was sufficient cover and he owned his own home and other 
properties as well as a separate endowment policy;
He has a signed agreement with the joint owner of the property (his business 
partner), that if one part wished to sell for any reason the other would comply;
He has another buy-to-let property and at no time was it recommended to purchase a 
policy such as the one Tenet recommended to him. 
So the matter has been passed back to me to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr A for the further comments hes made in response to my provisional findings. 
However, having reconsidered everything, Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision. The relevant extract from my provisional decision which 
now forms part of my final decision is as follows:
The first thing to note is that Tenet hasnt been able to provide this service with a copy of 
the suitability letter and/ or fact find. However, Im satisfied Ive sufficient information to 
reach a decision based on a balance of probabilities with the available evidence which 
includes the policy and mortgage offer documents, as well as Mr As and Tenets 
submissions.
From the evidence Ive seen, there was clear information at the time of the advice showing 
the policy wasnt a compulsory part of the lending. The mortgage offer makes this clear. 
So I cant fairly say Mr A was led to believe it was a mandatory part of the lending. I also 
think its more likely than not that Mr A was given sufficient information at the time of sale 
to understand what the policy covered. The details of the cover were clearly set out in the 
policy schedule and other policy documents. All in all, I think there was sufficient 
information provided to Mr A about the policy, its terms and what it covered.
In respect of Mr As main complaint  that the policy was mis-sold because he didnt want 
or need it  on balance, I dont think this was the case. Ill explain why.
The policy sold to Mr A would pay a lump sum, or a series of payments, in the event of him 
becoming critically ill or suffering a permanent disability. The total amount payable would 
cover the amount Mr A was liable to pay for his share of the mortgage loan. The policy also 
included payment protection. This latter benefit would provide cover for the policy 
payments in the event that Mr A became too ill to work for a period of time.
Given Mr As business interests at the time of the advice, I think the recommendation to 
take out an LTA to cover the mortgage debt, was a reasonable one to make. Mr A has 
confirmed that both he and his business partner had taken out similar policies at the same 
time. I think its likely that this was something both parties wanted in order to protect the 
others interest in the event of either party becoming seriously ill. Further, Mr A had a young 
family, so I think the LTA also offered his family protection at a time when they would most 
need it. Under all these circumstances, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable.
Mr A says because he had his own (residential) property and had suitable protection for 
this, he couldve sold the buy-to-let property to cover the mortgage debt in the event that he 
became seriously ill. However, if Mr A had become seriously ill, then selling the property 
may not have been a desirable outcome, particularly as the property was jointly owned with 
his business partner who may not have wanted to sell it at any particular time.
Im also not persuaded that the rental income provided suitable protection for Mr As 
borrowings. Whilst it wouldve helped meet the monthly mortgage payments, he still would 
have had a substantial debt at the end the mortgage term. The LTA provided a guaranteed 
payment that would help cover this debt if he were to become seriously ill. In any event, 
having any source of income doesnt make a recommendation to take out critical illness 
cover, unsuitable. The mortgage meant that Mr A and his business partner had a 
significant liability  the policy provided Mr A with the ability to cover his share of this if the 
worst was to happen.
All in all, Im satisfied the recommendation to take out the LTA policy was a reasonable one 
to make as it met with both Mr As business and personal wants and needs.
Ill now consider the further submissions made by Mr A in response to what I said above. 
Mr A says his main complaint is that he didnt realise hed actually been sold an LTA 
policy. Mr A says he didnt notice the premiums relating to the policy being taken from his 
account each month and it was only when checking some paperwork that he became 
aware of its existence. Shortly after this he made his complaint. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Mr A says, from everything Ive seen, such as the policy 
documents, I think its more likely than not that he was made aware at the time of sale that 
he was purchasing a term assurance policy and this had, in fact, been sold to him. I accept 
Mr A may not remember what exactly was said and/ or cant remember purchasing the 
policy, as the sale took place more than 15 years ago. Memories from so long ago are 
unlikely to be either accurate or complete and are generally not persuasive evidence 
where there is no other supporting evidence.
Mr A says at the meeting with the adviser the issue of CIC or payment protection wasnt 
discussed. But again Mr A is remembering something that happened some time ago. So whilst Ive taken into account what Mr A has said, and it does form part of the evidence Ive 
considered, having balanced this with the documentary evidence available from the time of 
sale, Im satisfied he was made aware of the policy, its terms and what it covered.
Mr A maintains he was told life cover was a mandatory part of the lending decision. But as 
Ive said above, the mortgage offer makes it reasonably clear the only compulsory 
insurance was buildings. So I cant fairly say Mr A was told this policy was something he 
had to have to secure the lending for his property. 
Mr A says he already had adequate cover through an endowment policy, other assets such 
as the family home and also rental income. But having any source of income or assets 
doesnt make a recommendation to take out CIC unsuitable. I appreciate the rental income 
was well above the monthly mortgage repayments for the property. But rental income 
wasnt guaranteed in the same way a lump sum payment would be following a claim under 
the LTA. And the endowment policy was taken out for a different purpose. The LTA 
provided Mr A with protection for his business partnership and I think the recommendation 
met with this specific want and need. 
In terms of the business partnership Mr A says there was an agreement that if one of the 
partners wanted to sell the other would comply. But again this didnt make the policy 
unsuitable. Both he and his business partner purchased similar policies so the other was 
protected if one became seriously ill. This seems like a reasonable step to take.
Mr A says at no point was he advised to take out a policy for another buy-to-let property he 
owned. But theres a degree of subjective judgment when an adviser makes a 
recommendation. Different advisers can reasonably make different recommendations when 
considering a customers demands and needs. I think the recommendation to take out this 
particular LTA met with Mr As circumstances at the time. 
For all these reasons, whilst Ive taken into account the further submissions Mr A has 
provided, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman