DRN-2681233
The complaint
Miss P complains that TSB Bank plc didnt cancel a Standing Order.
What happened
Miss P says she asked TSB to cancel a Standing Order for £10. She says this wasnt carried 
out and she made further calls to TSB about the issue and was told it had been sorted out. 
Miss P says she attended a TSB branch due to the problem and made a number of calls to 
it. She says she was caused distress and inconvenience and would like TSB to pay her 
further compensation.
TSB says Miss P called it in October 2020 and accepts it couldnt cancel the Standing Order 
due to a system issue. It also accepts Miss P called it again about the problem but says its 
acted fairly by paying £25 compensation, £6 for Miss Ps call costs and has refunded three 
of the £10 payments subject to the Standing Order. TSB also says Miss P has had some of 
the Standing Order payments refunded by the recipient in any event.
Miss P brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought the compensation offer didnt go far enough and recommended TSB pay 
a further £50 and also thought it could have told Miss P at the end of November 2020 that it 
had sorted out the problem. The investigator didnt think it relevant that the Standing Order 
recipient had refunded some of the payments.
Miss P doesnt accept that view and would like her further call costs repaid and says the 
money from the recipient was nothing to do with the Standing Order payment.
TSB says Miss P is now better off as a result of what took place and says the refunded 
payments are relevant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB should increase its compensation 
offer for the reasons I will explain. I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed with my decision 
as I dont think it should pay for any further call costs.
There is no question here that TSB made a mistake and that Standing Order payments were 
taken from Miss Ps account. I appreciate TSB had system issues and I also accept that TSB 
fairly refunded the Standing Order payments on three occasions. But Im also satisfied that, 
taking in account Miss Ps personal circumstances, she was caused distress and concern 
about what took place. And I dont think she would have contacted TSB and attended its 
branch if that wasnt the case.
The key issue is the level of compensation, and I can see that TSB agreed to pay the £25 
compensation before the last Standing Order payment was taken. So, I have come to the 
overall view that the compensation payment doesnt go far enough. I think it likely that the 
recipient of the Standing Order did refund Miss P with at least two of the payments and think 
on balance it unlikely they relate to anything else taking into account the amount and the 
timing of the refund. I also think TSB did refund three of the payments of £10. So, I think 
TSB has paid about £50 in total compensation, but I think it should fairly pay a further £50 
which takes account of the length of time this problem took to be sorted out and that further 
problems took place after the initial ones for which it paid compensation.
Overall, I uphold this complaint in part and think that further award takes into account the 
inconvenience and distress Miss P experienced. I think the award reflects any call costs 
Miss P paid and I cant fairly order an additional amount as I dont think Miss P has provided 
evidence of them. I also think the latter calls were about her complaint investigation rather 
than to do with the Standing Order issue, which I think had been sorted out by the time of 
some of the calls.  
Putting things right
I intend to order TSB to pay a further £50 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order TSB Bank plc to pay Miss P 
a further £50 compensation. Miss Ps acceptance of this decision would be in full and 
settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman