DRN-4486405
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about a claim he made on his Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (Red Sands) pet insurance policy, which Red Sands declined to cover.
Mr E feels this is unfair and says that Red Sands should cover his claim and compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience turning down his claim caused him.
What happened
Mr E returned from holiday to find his pet was bleeding from his mouth. The bleeding 
worsened and resulted in the pet being kept in for observation by the vet overnight. Whilst 
there, Mr Es vet said that they picked up a potential irregularity in the pets heartbeat. 
Investigations were undertaken and it was concluded the pet had a growth on its heart.
Mr E says his vet would not operate on the pets mouth until they were satisfied its heart had 
been fully assessed and it was safe to do so. Mr E says he made a claim on the policy for 
his vets fees in respect of all of this which was unfairly declined by Red Sands. 
Red Sands says the insurance Mr E purchased was an accident only policy and did not 
extend to any illnesses or diseases his pet might have. They said the policy didnt cover 
investigations into the pets heart as this was an investigation into an illness. Red Sands also 
said there was a policy exclusion in relation to the issue with regard to the pets mouth as it 
appeared to relate to epulis, which was something the pet had had since 2019. Mr E didnt 
agree so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Mr Es complaint and concluded that the conditions Mr E was 
claiming for didnt appear to be related to an accident, which is all the policy provided cover 
for. In addition, the investigator said that there was a policy exclusion for dental or gum 
treatment, including root canal and epulis as well as any investigation costs leading up to 
dental diagnosis. And Mr Es vet seemed to identify the likely cause of the bleeding to his 
pets mouth was as a result of epulis or other related gum or dental conditions.  As such he 
said that Red Sands didnt do anything wrong and were entitled to turn down Mr Es claims. 
Mr E doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. This is why.
Its not in dispute that Mr Es policy only extends to covering accidents, which means it only 
provides cover for vets fees in circumstances where his pet has an accident. The insurance  
doesnt cover him for any illnesses or diseases the pet might have.
Mr E says the bleeding from his pets mouth was caused by an accident and that the 
resultant investigations into his heart were necessary before any further investigations could 
be made to look into the issues with his mouth. I understand the point hes making but the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt clearly support that the pet had an accident. Theres suggestion 
in the clinical notes that it was thought by Mr E the pet had bitten its tongue, but this was 
noted as a possibility rather than conclusively the cause. There was nothing that supported 
this when the pet was examined. And theres no testimony to suggest that the bleeding to 
the pets mouth was caused by external factors that werent related to illness or anything to 
describe how the pet came to start bleeding from its mouth, which would be consistent with 
an accident taking place.
In addition, the vets notes dont support that the cause of the bleeding was a result of any 
sort of accident. Rather they seem to suggest that the likely cause could be epulis. There are 
various references to that in the clinical notes. The first is that the pet had had two 
procedures to remove growths from his gums before. The second was that it looked like 
epulis was growing again. The notes say the bleeding was coming from the upper right jaw. 
Reference is made to masses of cauliflower like epuli and that its very difficult to see the 
pets teeth so bleeding could be from epulis, infected tooth or gingivitis. Its recommended 
that the epuli are removed first before advice can be given about any dental treatment that 
might be needed. Theres nothing that supports that the bleeding resulted from an injury 
consistent with an accident and in this case the suggestion is that the cause was a pre-
existing condition the pet had which was specifically excluded by the cover provided by Red 
Sands. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Red Sands decline to pay Mr Es claim.
Turning now to the heart investigations conducted by Mr Es vet. I understand why those 
were necessary in order to ensure the safety of the pet before it was sedated to investigate 
the issues with its mouth. But given Ive concluded that the issue the pet was being 
investigated for wasnt likely to be as a result of an injury, I cant say that any further 
investigations to enable that should be covered either. And in any event the investigations 
were in relation to a possible illness whether or not that was necessary to investigate the 
issues with the pets mouth, and thats not what this sort of cover extends to. Its only 
intended to cover conditions caused by an accident. 
Mr E has said the issue being claimed for was in relation to the pets mouth and therefore 
didnt fall into the policy exclusion. The vets clinical notes make clear that there were 
multiple growths along the pets gums consistent with epuli and that blood was coming from 
the right hand side of the pets mouth. The notes specifically say so bleeding could be from 
epulus, infected tooth or gingivitis. The gums are part of the pets mouth, as are the teeth 
which are relevant to the problems identified as being the possible cause. Dental or gum 
treatment is excluded by the policy. But even that wasnt the case, theres nothing to support 
the cause of the blood was from an injury or accident of any kind. Rather, the evidence Ive 
seen suggests it was from an illness, which the policy doesnt extend to covering.
If Mr E can provide Red Sands with evidence in the form of something from his vet that 
confirms the cause of the investigations and treatment to the pets mouth was as a result of 
an accident and not caused by the epulis or anything else that wasnt excluded by the policy, 
then I would expect Red Sands to reconsider the claim. In the absence of that, I dont think 
they need to do anything further. If Mr E is able to provide that kind of evidence, then Red 
Sands doesnt need to cover any vets fees in relation to Mr Es pets heart condition- 
whether or not that was discovered during this particular visit- because that relates to an 
illness and not an accident, even though investigations were necessary to allow the pet to be 
treated safely for the problems with its mouth. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman