DRN-1823591
The complaint
Mr B has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim against 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B was involved in a driving incident when the front of his car came together with the 
rear of another drivers (the third partys) car. Mr B said the third party reversed into him. 
The third party said that Mr B had crashed into him from behind.
CIS eventually paid the other drivers claim. Mr B didn't think CIS had dealt with him fairly. 
CIS acknowledged that it could have handled some matters better and it paid Mr B £175 
compensation for the impact of any misadvice and delays. But it was satisfied its decision to 
pay the third partys claim was the right one. 
Mr B didn't agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it but 
she didn't think CIS needed to take any further action. Mr B didn't agree so the complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.  
In bringing this complaint Mr B has made a number of points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues at 
the heart of Mr Bs complaint following our investigator's assessment of it.
Mr B is clearly very unhappy CIS have settled a claim following an incident. According to 
Mr B, the other driver reversed into him and he considers the incident to be a scam. And 
given hes certain he wasn't at fault for the incident I can understand his strength of feeling. 
But that doesn't mean CIS has done anything wrong.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, or to 
decide how any such accident took place, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, 
like all motor policies, Mr Bs policy allows CIS to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it 
doesnt require his consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that 
Mr B doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so reasonably.
Mr B said the incident didn't cause any damage to his car and that any damage to the other 
car must have been pre-existing. CIS sent out an independent engineer to examine both 
cars. The engineer noted that there was some damage to Mr Bs car. And he measured the 
height of that damage and noted it matched the damage to the third partys car. The 
engineer concluded that the damage to Mr Bs car was consistent with a moderate front to 
rear impact and matched the damage caused to the third partys car. Mr B said the only 
damage to his car was a minor scratch caused by leaves or thorns. But the engineer is an 
expert in his field. And as he is independent he has nothing to gain by saying that the 
damage was consistent with Mr Bs car hitting the other car unless he thought, in his 
professional opinion, that was the case. So, given the engineers opinion was that damage 
caused to Mr Bs car was consistent with an impact when Mr Bs car hit the back of the third 
partys car, I think it was reasonable for CIS to conclude that the damage happened in the 
incident.
Mr B also said he wasn't at fault for the incident as the third party reversed into him. But the 
third party blamed Mr B, saying he failed to brake in time. So CIS was presented with two 
opposing versions of events. And as I understand it theres no video footage of the accident 
itself, only images taken after it. The other driver did provide the details of a witness who 
said he saw Mr B hit the back of the third partys car. But as that witness acknowledged he 
already knew the third party, CIS said that it didn't consider the witness evidence to be 
independent and disregarded it. So apart from the engineering evidence and photos, the 
only actual evidence of what happened are the two drivers accounts. The third partys 
representatives were threatening to take the matter to court, so CIS had to decide which 
version of events it thought a court would prefer. 
Its apparent CIS believed that if it defended the matter in court, the court would more likely 
prefer the third partys version of events and find in his favour. I've noted that when it was 
looking into this CIS referred the matter to solicitors. And it was the solicitors that 
recommended settling the third party's claim. CIS solicitors have expertise in such matters 
and I don't think they would recommend settling a claim in the third partys favour where they 
thought they had reasonable prospects of defending it. That's because to do so meant that 
CIS would lose any chance of recovering what theyd paid to settle the claim. So while I have 
a great deal of sympathy with Mr Bs position, for the reasons Ive given, I don't think CIS 
decision to settle the claim was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman