DRN-2857224
The complaint
Mr A complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a medical 
expenses claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr A took out a single trip travel insurance policy, to cover a holiday he 
planned to take between 18 February and 17 March 2019. He travelled as planned to a 
country Ill call S and stayed in accommodation which he said was provided as a gift. 
Unfortunately, while Mr A was abroad, he was taken ill with unstable angina and his doctors 
advised him that he wasnt fit to fly. So Mr A had to extend his stay for around two and half 
months. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs associated with 
remaining in S. Mr A says URV told him it would agree to meet a cost of £150 per night for a 
room in a hotel for the period he needed to remain abroad.
URV ultimately appointed a claims investigator to look into Mr As claim. Based on the 
information Mr A had provided to it, URV invoked its policy fraud condition and it turned 
down Mr As claim. It had three major concerns:
Mr A had told the claims investigator that hed stayed in a single room  but it 
appeared hed actually claimed the costs of a grand suite;
Mr A told the claims investigator that he no longer worked for a company Ill call G. 
But the claims investigator found that Mr A was a director of G and still undertook 
jobs for it; and
Mr A had provided a letter from another company which said that his original 
accommodation would be provided free of charge, as a gift. But the contact details on 
that letter were for an employee of G.
Mr A was unhappy with URVs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think URV had acted unfairly. He noted that the policy terms, in brief, 
required policyholders to provide accurate information to URV and set out the consequences 
of providing inaccurate or fraudulent information. Hed listened to calls between Mr A and the 
claims investigator and he was satisfied that there were some discrepancies in the 
information Mr A had provided. Overall, he concluded URV had acted reasonably.
Mr A disagreed. He said he didnt think the investigators assessment had been fair. The 
investigator had reached his view based on irrelevant questions. He didnt feel we could 
ignore the information from the hospital which showed hed been ill and stuck in S. He also 
told us hed said that URV had agreed he could pay £125 for a hotel room and that it was 
irrelevant if the room he chose was bigger than a single room.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I dont think URV has treated him 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr As policy and the available evidence, to decide if URV acted reasonably in the 
way it dealt with Mr As claim.
First, theres no dispute that Mr A was taken ill while he was away in S. I dont doubt how 
stressful and worrying the situation mustve been for him, especially as I appreciate hed 
undergone cardiac surgery not long beforehand. And I sympathise with his position.
But its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show, on balance, that 
first, they have a valid claim on their policy and second, that the costs they are claiming for 
are covered by the policy terms. Often, insurers will investigate claims on a policyholders 
behalf if they consider they need reasonable further information to establish that a claim is 
payable under the policy. And thats what happened here.
At the top of page two of the policy contract, URV has included the following term:
You have a duty to take reasonable care to answer questions fully and accurately, and that 
any information you give to us is not misleading. This applies both when you take the policy 
out and at any time during the policy period. If you do not do so, we reserve the right to void 
your policy from inception and refuse all claims made against it.
Page 24 of the policy contract sets out the fraud condition. This says:
If you or anyone acting on your behalf knowingly commit a fraudulent act or submit a 
fraudulent document or make a fraudulent statement or exaggerate any claim made under 
this insurance, we will not pay the claim and cover under this and all other insurances 
currently in force with us with which you are connected will cease immediately. You will not 
be entitled to any refund of premium under any policy.
We will process your claim under the terms and conditions of this insurance based on the 
first reason notified to us for the claim. If your claim is not covered and you then submit a 
claim having changed the circumstances of the loss or damage we consider this as fraud. 
Details of all such cases will be passed to appropriate agencies for action.
Most, if not all, travel insurance policies (and insurance policies more generally) include 
similar terms. I think URV has made it clear in its policy terms that if a policyholder doesnt 
take reasonable care to answer questions honestly; provides misleading information; 
knowingly makes a fraudulent statement or exaggerates a claim, then URV wont pay the 
claim. I also think URV has made clear the other actions it may decide to take. These terms 
are also in line with the remedies available to URV under the Insurance Act 2015, if it 
believes a fraudulent claim has been made.
URV has told us that it has invoked the fraud condition in this case. This means I need to 
decide whether I think it was fair for it to do so. I must make it clear that Im not making any 
finding as to whether the claim was fraudulent or not  instead Im deciding whether I think 
URV had reasonable grounds on which to invoke the condition and decline the claim. So Ive 
gone on to think about the questions URV asked Mr A, the answers he gave and the 
available evidence when considering whether it acted fairly in the overall circumstances.Like the investigator, Ive listened to the calls between the claims investigator and Mr A. 
During the call, the investigator clearly asked Mr A whether the hotel room hed stayed in 
was a single room. Mr A told the claims investigator that it was. However, the claims 
investigator contacted the relevant hotel and learned that Mr A was claiming for the cost of a 
grand suite. And Mr A has also told us that he needed a bigger room, given his illness, which 
supports URVs conclusion. So on this basis, I dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude 
that Mr A had knowingly provided it with misleading and inaccurate information about the 
type of room he stayed in, claiming the costs of a luxury suite, rather than a standard room 
that URV might otherwise have covered.
URV was also concerned by the information Mr A provided about his employment. During 
the call, Mr A told the claims investigator that hed been an employee of G, but no longer 
worked for it. However, the claims investigator learned that Mr A was in fact a director of G 
(and remains so); that he had continued to do some work on its behalf and that calls and 
social media were still directed to Mr A. Given what Mr A initially told URV about his role with 
G, I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to find that hed knowingly provided it with 
inaccurate or misleading information in response to a clear question.
Its clear URV also had concerns about Mr As links with the company in S which he said 
offered him free accommodation during the early part of his stay. Ive seen a copy of the 
letter Mr A was sent in January 2019, which set out this accommodation only offer, within the 
company premises. However, the email contact details given in the letter were for an 
employee of G, rather than an employee of that company. So while I dont think this letter is 
necessarily evidence that Mr A was seeking to mislead URV, I can see that URV might 
potentially have wanted to satisfy itself that Mr A wasnt travelling for work on Gs behalf 
when he became ill. And I dont think the answers Mr A gave the claims investigator about 
any potential link between G and the company in S were clear enough to allay any concerns 
it mightve had on this point. 
In the round and given the inconsistencies Ive set out above relating to the room and Mr As 
role with G, I dont think URV has treated Mr A unfairly. I say that because I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to conclude that Mr A hadnt provided full, accurate or not misleading 
statements during its enquiries about the claim. I also dont think it was unfair in the 
circumstances for it to consider that Mr A had provided fraudulent statements. This means I 
find URV was entitled to conclude that Mr A had breached the policy fraud condition and 
apply the contractual and legal remedies available to it.
I understand URV had previously told Mr A it would pay £125 for a hotel room. However, I 
dont think URV is obliged to pay this given the findings of its subsequent investigations into 
Mr As claim. 
URV refused to pay Mr As medical expenses claim, which it was contractually entitled to do 
under the fraud condition in his policy. Its told us that it didnt void the policy, as the term 
had already expired. And it told Mr A that it wouldnt be taking any other action or referring 
the matter on to other agencies. Im satisfied then that it was fair for URV to refuse to pay Mr 
As claim, in line with the policy terms and the provisions of the Insurance Act 2015. This 
means I dont think URV has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman