DRN-4111091
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from Santander UK Plc surrounding his request 
to complete an account switch to them. He also complains that Santander havent provided a 
proper explanation for why it declined his application, and his credit file has been impacted 
negatively.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr L applied for a bank account switch with Santander from a third party 
bank.  As part of its process Santander recorded a credit search on Mr L which left a mark 
on his credit file. Santander sent Mr L a text on 2 February 2022 to let him know it was 
completing further checks regarding his application.
Santander reviewed Mr Ls request and decided that they were unwilling to accept Mr L as a 
customer. This meant that Santander closed the new current account that had been opened 
as a result of the current account switch process. On 3 February 2022, Santander wrote to 
Mr L to let him know it had closed the account.
Mr L says he never received the notice to closure letter from Santander. So, he was shocked 
to find out the bank had decided to close his account. He says he called Santander to try 
and find out why the bank had closed his account, but the bank wouldnt provide him with 
much information. Mr L said he had to spend time on the phone chasing Santander for 
answers and the bank never kept him updated about what was happening. 
Mr L complained to Santander. He said the bank had treated him unfairly and should explain 
why it didnt want him as a customer. Mr L also said the bank hadnt let him know it had 
closed his account. Santander responded and said it hadnt done anything wrong and wasnt 
obliged to provide him with an explanation about why it had decided not to offer him an 
account. Santander also said it had sent a notice to closure letter to Mr Ls home address to 
let him know about its decision. 
Mr L remained unhappy. He wants to know why Santander closed his account and 
maintained that he never received the notice to close letter. He said that following his 
application with Santander, because Santander had left a mark on his credit file during the 
switch process, he had to wait at least six months to apply for another bank account to avoid 
having more searches completed on his credit file, which can be seen negatively by other 
banks if several searches are done in a short period of time. He said he eventually opened 
another account with a different bank in September 2022. Mr L says his experience with 
Santander caused him unnecessary trouble and upset. So, Santander should pay him 
compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls complaint. She said that the bank hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had decided to close Mr Ls account and she hadnt seen any 
evidence that Santander had recorded any adverse information about Mr L on his credit file. 
She also said that Santander had sent Mr L a closure letter. Mr L disagreed. He said the 
adjudicator hadnt addressed the fact that the credit search Santander performed meant he 
had to wait to open another bank account and he never received the closure letter from 
Santander.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. On 24 April 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Ive no doubt that Mr L feels very strongly about his dealings with Santander, thats clear 
from what hes told us and the bank. But having looked at the evidence and considered how 
the banks actions have impacted Mr L, Im currently minded to reach the same conclusions 
as the adjudicator but for different reasons. 
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the 
commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
In this case Mr L applied to open a new account with Santander. When this happens, its not 
unusual for a business, like Santander to carry our searches with credit reference agencies 
when considering applications for a bank account. Santander confirms this is something it 
does in its terms and conditions for the account Mr L wanted to open and it also sets out that 
a credit search may be completed in its switching information that is available on their 
website.
Having looked at the website I can see that this is one of several documents that the bank 
encourages potential customers to review before going ahead with their switch application. 
So, I think its likely Mr L had access to this information before he made his application for a 
current account and more likely than not would have been aware Santander would carry out 
searches. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr L wasnt happy to proceed with his 
application, so in light of the above I cant say Santander did anything wrong when it carried 
out a credit search on Mr L.  It was this search that left a footprint on Mr Ls credit file  this 
is also explained in the information on Santanders website.
I appreciate what Mr L has said about his credit file. Mr L was worried about his credit file. 
And that lots of credit searches can impact in a short period of time can impact the ability to 
secure further credit. Ive considered whether its reasonable to say Mr L had to wait to apply 
to open another bank account due to the credit search Santander performed on Mr L as part 
of its account opening process. Whilst I accept what Mr L says and understand his concerns, 
I havent seen clear evidence that Santanders credit search led to Mr L suffering any 
financial loss or meant he couldnt apply for another account sooner than he did.
If a customer applies for an account, and agrees to credit searches in the process, I would, 
only expect this type of information to be removed if the business performing the searches 
provided incorrect information to credit reference agencies. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
was the case here. A search was carried out because Mr L applied for an account. And 
Santander are under an obligation to report accurate information. Im satisfied that is what 
has happened here.
I note too that Santander tried to assist Mr L by informing him that he could add a Notice of 
Corrections to his credit file. This is a short explanatory note that can be added to an entry 
on a credit file to explain the background to that information. Anyone searching Mr Ls credit 
file in the future would then have been able see the note and have to take that into 
consideration if and when Mr L applied for credit. So, while I understand this was frustrating 
for Mr L, I do not find that Santander did anything wrong in its handling of Mr Ls account 
switch request and completing a credit check.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Santander treated Mr Ls application differently. 
Following completion of these checks Santander decided it wasnt able to offer Mr L an account. Santander is entitled to do this, so whilst I can appreciate Mr L was no doubt 
disappointed, I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it decided it didnt want to accept  
Mr L as a new customer. And since Santander was entitled to make this decision, Im not 
going to tell the bank to re-open it. 
Mr L wants Santander to explain why it decided not to offer him an account. But Santander is 
under no obligation to tell Mr L the reasons behind its decision, as much as hed like to 
know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr L this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. However, Santander have provided an 
explanation to this service as to why they werent willing to accept Mr L as a customer. Our 
rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Santander has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able 
to share a lot of detail with Mr L. I realise this wont answer Mr Ls desire to understand 
Santanders decision. But Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything and 
there is nothing that would lead me to conclude Mr L has been treated unfairly.
Santander says it wrote to Mr L on 3 February 2022 to let Mr L know it wasnt going to be 
able to offer him an account. Mr L says he never got this letter and wants to see proof it was 
sent. Ive looked at a screenshot, which shows the banks actions relating to Mr L, provided 
by Santander. I can see that on 7 February 2022 it states that a letter has been sent to Mr L 
informing him about the closure. Ive also seen a copy of the letter Santander says it sent to 
Mr L, which is correctly addressed. So, I think its likely Santander did send Mr L a letter to 
inform him it had decided to close his account.
Finally, Mr L is unhappy about the way Santander dealt with his complaint. Mr L has told us 
Santander failed to keep him updated before issuing its response. And didnt discuss the 
outcome of its investigation with him before issuing its final response letter. He says he had 
to chase Santander about what it was doing about his complaint, which meant he had to 
spend time on the phone which as well as time consuming was also stressful. But complaint 
handling in its own right isnt a regulated activity and isnt something we can consider a 
complaint about. So, I cant consider this point further.
Mr L wants Santander to pay him compensation for the distress hes been caused. And time 
hes had to spend trying to resolve things. We dont normally compensate people for their 
time, but we look at the upset and trouble the behaviour of the business caused the 
customer. In this case Ive decided that the bank was entitled to close Mr Ls account, and it 
didnt have to give any reasons. So, it wouldnt be fair of to tell it to pay Mr L any 
compensation for his upset at the decision.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr L feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander has acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr L unfairly. So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. Mr L didnt. In summary, Mr L said:
He wants to be provided with an explanation why Santander closed his account so 
that he can avoid being in the same situation in the future
Hes had no trouble opening other accounts so Santander must have discriminated 
against him when it decided it didnt want him as a customer
He never received the notice to close letterNow both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr L has highlighted a number of concerns, which Ill 
now address below.
Mr L has said that he feels Santander discriminated against him when they decided not to 
offer him an account. account. While I can appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role 
to decide whether discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to decide 
this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr L has said when 
deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering 
the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. I appreciate Mr Ls comments that he 
has been able to open other accounts without any problems but Santander can decide who it 
provides accounts to, and each bank has its own risk criteria. So, I havent found that 
Santander decided not to offer Mr L an account for an improper reason.
I know Mr L wants to be provided with a detailed explanation for why Santander didnt want 
to offer him an account. Im afraid there is little that I can add to what Ive already said in my 
provisional decision. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the 
commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And Santander isnt obliged to 
provide Mr L with an explanation as much as hed like to know.
Finally, Mr L maintains he never received the closure letter from Santander and is confused 
about how I could have seen evidence the bank sent this to him on 7 February 2022, when 
hed called the day before to be told the account had been closed. To clarify, the screen shot 
shows that a letter had been sent to him  this was an entry recorded on 7 February 2022  
which suggests to me that the letter had already gone out to Mr L  not that it was sent out 
on this date.
In summary, I appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed by my decision, but I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should not be 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and 
form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman