DRN-2714839
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) handled his claim for a refund 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Mr R contacted Co-op using their secure message service on 2 December 2020 to make an 
indemnity claim in respect of a direct debit claimed on 26 November 2020 by an energy 
company. Co-op replied asking him to confirm the reason for the claim to ensure it wasnt 
rejected. 
Mr R replied to Co-op on 5 December 2020. He said that there was an error in the amount of 
the direct debit payment. He didnt know what the amount shouldve been. He said that the 
direct debit hadnt been cancelled. He also confirmed hed received advance notice of the 
payment. He said that Co-op were in breach of the Direct Debit Guarantee as they hadnt 
made a full and immediate refund. Mr R asked for the matter to be referred as a complaint.
Co-op confirmed that a complaint had been registered. They explained why theyd asked for 
more information about his claim. They said they hadnt made an error in following their 
process and didnt agree with Mr Rs complaint. So, it would be closed as resolved. They 
said that if Mr R didnt agree with their resolution and had more information for consideration, 
he should reply by 9 December 2020.
Mr R messaged Co-op again on 7 December 2020. He didnt agree that he needed to 
provide Co-op with the expected amount for the direct debit claim. So, he asked for his 
complaint to be escalated. Co-op said that if Mr R wasnt willing to provide details of the 
correct direct debit amount, the claim would be rejected. They confirmed that the complaint 
wouldnt be escalated because they hadnt made any error.
Mr R replied to Co-op on 7 December 2020. He told them again that he didnt know the 
correct amount, only that the amount claimed was in error. He told Co-op to treat the amount 
that shouldve been claimed as zero.
Co-op replied on the same day. They said that if Mr R was unhappy with their response, he 
could refer matters to this service. They also said that a direct debit had been claimed by the 
same energy company in October but there hadnt been a Direct Debit Guarantee claim 
made then. So, they suggested he speak to the energy company to confirm the correct 
amounts and Co-op would be happy to arrange a claim for any amounts that were wrong.
Mr R asked Co-op to submit claims for the direct debits in October and November. He said 
both amounts shouldve been zero. Co-op confirmed theyd completed the two claims as 
requested by Mr R. They said if the claims were rejected, it may be because he was in 
dispute with the energy company rather than the claim falling under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee. Co-op said they would contact him if this was the case.
The direct debit amounts from October and November 2020 were refunded to Mr Rs 
account on 7 December 2020.
Mr R was unhappy Co-op didnt agree with his complaint and theyd refused to escalate it. 
So, he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs 
complaint. She didnt think Co-op had made a mistake and said they didnt need to do any 
more here. Mr R disagreed with our investigators view and asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive looked at the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee. In particular, the 
circumstances under which a claim can be made. It states, If a Direct Debit payment has 
been collected which is not as outlined in the advance notice, i.e. more has been collected 
than the amount specified or the payment has been taken on the wrong date, you are 
entitled to an immediate refund of the amount collected from your bank or building society 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
It goes on to say, If you have any concerns (for example, you believe the amount on the 
advance notice is incorrect) you should contact the organisation directly to resolve. It is 
relevant to note that the terms also say that It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
When a bank or building society is asked to make a claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee, 
its important that the reason is clearly stated to ensure that it falls within the scope of the 
Guarantee. Failure to do so could lead to a claim being rejected. In Mr Rs case, Co-op 
asked him to clarify the reason for his claim. This is a reasonable request in the 
circumstances. 
Mr R said that there had been an error in the amount. Co-op have a responsibility to ensure 
that they are acting in the best interest of their customer. They asked Mr R to confirm the 
correct amount that shouldve been claimed. Under the terms of the direct debit scheme, the 
amount and date of any direct debit should be notified at least ten days in advance of the 
payment being claimed by an organisation. So, in this case, the energy company should 
have provided this notification to Mr R. The circumstances under which a claim can be made 
under the guarantee include where:
the direct debit instruction had previously been cancelled by Mr R,
the direct debit amount and/or date differed from what had been pre advised or
Mr R hadnt been pre-advised of the direct debit claim.
In Mr Rs case, he said that there was an error in the amount. Co-op wanted to clarify the 
amount pre-advised to him. This is because the guarantee claim could be rejected if the 
original payment had conformed with what had been pre-advised. To complete a successful 
claim, Co-op would need to show that the amount claimed was different to the one pre-
advised. So, I am happy that Co-op were merely seeking to ensure that any claim made for 
Mr R was successful. By this I mean there had been a payment error and there was some 
evidence to support this. I believe that this was the right approach to take here and it wasnt 
particularly onerous.
Mr Rs complaint to Co-op was based upon the fact they hadnt immediately refunded the 
direct debit amount to his account when he asked. Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs frustration, I 
dont believe that Co-op had sufficient information to arrange a successful claim when they 
were first asked. So, they asked for more information, which was the right thing to do.
Mr R also said that he had been told by the energy company to ask his bank to make the 
Direct Debit Guarantee claim. But no further information about the circumstances of this was 
provided. So, it wouldnt have been clear to Co-op why the energy company had requested 
this here. On 7 December 2020, Mr R told Co-op the direct debit amounts taken from his account in 
October and November shouldve been zero. This suggests he didnt owe any amount to the 
energy company on those dates and that the pre-advices issued had stated this. So, Co-op 
completed the claims, as requested, and they refunded Mr Rs account with the total of these 
two direct debits that day. So, it appears that Co-op fulfilled their obligations under the 
Guarantee as soon as they had received the necessary information from Mr R.
Ive asked Mr R to provide copies of the pre-advice notices that he received from the energy 
company. I also, asked him to clarify whether the amounts claimed were different to those 
detailed within the advices. This is because the terms of the Guarantee only permit a claim 
where the amount or date differs from what was pre-advised. Mr R hasnt provided this 
information. He says that this request isnt within the scope of his complaint. 
Its important to recognise that if the direct debit originator notifies their customer it intends to 
take a stated amount on a given date (and it does exactly that) but their customer doesnt 
agree with that, then its not technically a payment error. So, this isnt covered by the Direct 
Debit Guarantee. It has to be a mistake or payment error and not simply that their customer 
doesnt agree and has been told about it prior. The Direct Debit Guarantee also shouldnt be 
used where a change in the amount has been agreed with the originator after the pre-advice 
was issued. 
The schemes purpose is to protect customers in the event of an invalid claim. Where an 
agreement is reached to change the amount, the originator should notify their customer by 
pre-advising the new amount. If this isnt possible, for example where there isnt enough 
time, the originator should either cancel the claim or reimburse their customer outside of the 
scheme.
I do understand that Mr R will be disappointed here, but I cant see that Co-op have done 
anything wrong. At all times they have tried to act in the best interests of Mr M to ensure that 
any claim was successful under the terms of the Guarantee scheme. So, I shant be asking 
Co-op to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman