DRN-3820159
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) misinformed 
him about the amount of tax-free cash (TFC) he was entitled to take. He says this led to him 
making an important financial decision based on the wrong information, which has caused 
him a lot of stress. 
What happened
Mr T held a pension with Prudential, which was due to mature in 2018. 
In January 2018, Prudential wrote to Mr T to explain his options as he was approaching his 
retirement date. It said the value of the fund, including a final bonus, was £165,773.85. That 
amount included the guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) and a separate fund (made up of 
redress and additional voluntary contributions) that was worth £71,654.03 at that time. 
Prudential told Mr T that the additional fund could be used in several ways:
To buy an annuity which would provide a regular pension income for life.
To provide a cash lump sum. It said that up to 25% of the fund available after the 
GMP could be taken as tax-free cash (TFC) - the rest would be taxable as earned 
income. The TFC available at that time was £17,913.51.
Shop around to potentially secure a higher income elsewhere.
Move into a drawdown  allowing Mr T to maintain control of his investment and have 
access to his money, taking as much or as little as he wanted at any time.
Transfer the fund available after the GMP to another provider. 
Alternatively, Mr T could choose to do nothing at that time.
On 12 April 2018 Prudential wrote to Mr T to remind him that he could access his pension 
fund whenever he was ready. The fund value, including final bonus, at that time was 
£173,551.33. 
In July 2020 Mr T asked Prudential to send him information about his options for taking his 
pension. 
According to a pension summary dated 17 July 2020, Mr Ts fund value had increased to 
£198,184.48 (as at 16 July 2020). 
Mr T sent an email to Prudential on 21 July 2020 confirming hed received the information 
pack it had sent. He said the only thing he needed to know was what his GMP would be if he 
took 25% TFC.
Prudential called Mr T on 6 August 2020 to discuss his options. He again said the crux of 
what he wanted to find out was what would happen to the GMP if he took 25% TFC. 
Prudentials agent explained that once Mr T took his GMP, he could take TFC from the 
additional fund left over  the agent referred to this as the on tops amount. At another point 
during the call Mr T specifically asked the agent whether he was allowed to take 25% TFC 
from the full amount of his fund. The agent confirmed that hed be allowed to take the 
maximum TFC after the GMP had been costed. She then explained that TFC comes from 
the additional fund as there was no option to take it from the GMP.
In a letter dated 13 August 2020, Prudential confirmed as per a previous conversation it had 
with Mr T, that it no longer offered annuities from which he could access the GMP part of his 
pension fund. However, it said another provider, L, would arrange this on Prudentials behalf 
if Mr T wanted to take an annuity. It reminded him about shopping around to secure the best 
options for him.
Mr T also spoke to one of Prudentials agents in April 2021. She asked him if he recalled 
receiving the information sent in August 2020. He said he did but didnt understand it 
whatsoever. During the call, the agent also sent, by email, a copy of a letter initially sent to 
Mr T in 2018. She referred him to a specific page, which included options after the GMP had 
been paid. These included taking a cash lump sum. Following some further discussion, Mr T 
said, basically 25% is of whats left, not the original amount. The agent said that was right 
and explained that Mr T could take 25% of the additional fund. She asked Mr T if he knew 
what he wanted to do with the additional fund, and he said hed likely take the cash as a 
lump sum and pay the taxes on it. He suggested he also wanted to take an annuity with the 
GMP, so Prudential told him hed have to contact L directly to set this up. Once hed done 
that, he could contact Prudential again about accessing the additional fund. Prudential 
agreed to call Mr T back on 20 May 2021.
That call never materialised, so Mr T called Prudential again on 24 May 2021. According to 
Prudentials call note (there is no recording available), Mr T still wanted to take a cash lump 
sum using the additional part of his pension. 
Prudential wrote to Mr T on 25 May 2021 and asked him to sign a form to confirm that he 
wanted to take the additional fund as a lump sum.  He did that shortly after. 
On 8 June 2021, Prudential told Mr T that it had paid a sum directly to provider L. It said that 
the total additional fund value was £91,446.79. Of that amount, TFC of £22,861.70 was 
payable. After making a deduction for tax, Prudential said it had paid a total of £62,308.93 
into Mr Ts bank account. 
Mr T called Prudential on 21 June 2021 to say that the amount paid to him was wrong as it  
had used a lower TFC amount than he was expecting. He thought Prudential had wrongly 
advised him during a previous call, so he wanted it to listen to that call. He added that the 
amount of tax deducted wasnt right.
Mr T raised concerns about aspects of Prudentials service. In a response sent in July 2021 
it recognised its service had been below par in some respects - largely due to the migration 
of its systems and the global pandemic. It offered £200 compensation to Mr T in recognition 
of the impact those things had. 
Mr T complained to Prudential in September 2021 about the misinformation hed been given. 
In a response sent in late October 2021 Prudential said:
It didnt accept it told Mr T during a call in August 2020 that hed receive TFC 
amounting to 25% of the overall fund value. It was satisfied, having listened to the 
call, that it told him the lump sum would be based on the fund available once the 
GMP had been paid. 
Whilst it didnt have access to a call recording from April 2021 at that point (although, 
it has since found it and provided it to our Service) it was satisfied from its notes that Mr T was intending to contact another provider, L, for a GMP costing, and was 
considering taking the additional fund as a lump sum. 
It accepted there had been some service issues such as it failing to call Mr T back on 
20 May 2021 and there had been a delay in sending him an options pack. However, 
it didnt accept, as per Mr Ts assertion, that it held the pension up for two years.
Prudential offered Mr T £300 for the additional service issues it had identified.
Mr T complained to our Service and one of our Investigators looked into the complaint. 
However, he didnt uphold it for the following reasons:
He hadnt seen anything to indicate that Prudential referred to Mr T being entitled to 
£49,657.31 in TFC, neither had it indicated that it would pay 25% of the full fund 
value as TFC. 
The investigator acknowledged the stress caused to Mr T and accepted that 
Prudentials service had fallen short of the standard expected. However, he felt that 
the total compensation offered of £500 was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr T didnt agree and felt the Investigator had been biased in favour of Prudential. He also 
challenged the basis for some of his findings and said he found it suspicious that Prudential 
had lost key call recordings.
The Investigator sent a follow up assessment having received two call recordings from 
Prudential in the meantime. He noted that:
During a call in August 2020, Prudential told Mr T that the TFC was only available 
after funding the cost of the GMP. There was no TFC available from the GMP figure. 
So, he didnt think anything Prudential said would have led Mr T to believe hed be 
receiving £49,657.31 in TFC.
During another call in April 2021, Prudential explained that the 25% TFC could only 
be paid after the cost of the GMP was met. The investigator was satisfied that 
Prudential was clear on that point. He said he couldnt safely conclude that it told Mr 
T he might receive £49,657.31 in TFC.
Again, he felt that Prudential had done enough to recognise the impact of its service 
issues by offering Mr T compensation totalling £500.
Mr T responded and said he hadnt cashed Prudentials compensation payments as the 
matter remained unresolved. He also questioned the basis upon which the Investigator said 
hed found Prudentials account more persuasive  bearing in mind that he [Mr T] hadnt lost 
evidence and conveniently found it. He maintained hed written down the quoted TFC figure 
based on what Prudential told him. 
As Mr T didnt agree, the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I fully appreciate why Mr T feels very strongly about the matters leading to 
this complaint. 
Theres a clear conflict though between Prudential and Mr T about whether it did or didnt 
say that he could expect to receive a TFC figure of £49,657.31. Prudential insists it didnt. 
But Mr Ts suggested he wrote that figure down having spoken to a Prudential agent. He cant recall exactly when he was given that information. But he thinks it was probably during 
one of the April or May 2021 calls. 
Ive listened to the April 2021 call and Im satisfied Prudential didnt tell Mr T that hed 
receive £49,657.31 in TFC. I think it made it clear that he could only take TFC from the 
additional part of the fund which was of a much lower value. This also accords with 
information he was given in August 2020 and before. Importantly, I think Mr T understood 
that, as he said basically 25% is of whats left, not the original amount. And the agent 
confirmed that was correct. When asked which option Mr T was likely to take regarding the 
additional amount, Mr T indicated hed probably take the cash as a lump sum and pay any 
taxes that became due. 
I dont have the recording from the May 2021 call. That naturally makes it more difficult to 
say with any certainty exactly what was discussed. So, in a situation like this, I have to 
decide, on balance, how likely it is that Prudential would have given Mr T entirely different 
information between the April and May 2021 calls. I say entirely different information 
because if it mentioned that Mr T was entitled to TFC of £49,657.31 I think that could 
realistically only happen if he was entitled to take TFC based on the whole fund value as 
opposed to just part of it. Ive thought very carefully about this, especially given Mr Ts 
recollection.
Prudentials position and the explanations it gave Mr T were fairly consistent across various 
written communications and during phone calls. That position was that he could only take 
TFC from the additional part of the pension - that is the part that wasnt used to make up the 
GMP. 
The May 2021 call was only a matter of weeks after Prudential had given Mr T a fairly 
unambiguous explanation about how and from where he could take his TFC. And, as I 
understand things, the purpose of the May 2021 call wasnt to discuss options again. It was 
so Mr T could confirm that hed been in touch with L about setting up the annuity and so 
Prudential could sort out matters to do with the additional fund  assuming Mr T wanted to 
proceed as previously discussed. Thats not to say that options definitely werent discussed 
again. But the note made following the May 2021 call suggests that it proceeded in pretty 
much the way I expected  with Mr T confirming that he did want to go ahead as per the 
discussion in April. 
I think its fair to say that if Prudential had told Mr T during a call in May 2021 that his TFC 
entitlement was significantly more than the proportion it had told him to expect previously, I 
think hed have queried it. As I imagine, given the consistent explanations hed been given 
up to that point, hed want to establish why it had increased by so much. And, importantly, to 
make sure it was right. It also seems likely there would be some record of that  even if it 
was a brief note to that effect. But theres no evidence of that kind. 
Taking account of all of these factors, on balance, Im not persuaded that Prudential quoted 
an incorrect figure as far as the TFC that Mr T was entitled to receive was concerned. It 
follows therefore that I cant fairly say Prudential caused Mr T a financial loss. I appreciate 
though that Mr T will likely be disappointed to hear that.
I think its also important to say that even if Prudential had mentioned a higher TFC during 
the May 2021 call, I dont agree that Mr T based his decision to take the additional fund as 
cash on that. Explanations about the amount of TFC that could be taken were given from as 
far back as 2018 - before Mr T apparently made important decisions about his pension. And 
from the evidence Ive seen, I think he made those decisions in spite of the fact he knew he 
could only take TFC from the additional fund. Its worth saying again that by the end of the April 2021 call, I think Mr T had pretty much decided what he wanted to do. And, having 
again told Mr T during that call that he could only take the 25% TFC from the additional fund 
(as opposed to the whole fund) and Mr T confirming his understanding of that, I think he 
went ahead in that knowledge.
Also, even if I was persuaded that Prudential inadvertently told Mr T to expect a much higher 
TFC sum (Ive already said why Im not), I still wouldnt be directing it to honour a mistaken 
TFC figure in the way that Mr T might expect. I say that because my role is to try to put Mr T 
back in the position he would have been in  or as close to that position as possible  had it 
not been for any errors or miscommunication. And the position that Mr T would have been in 
appears to be exactly the one he is in  once hed decided to take a cash lump sum, he was 
only entitled to 25% TFC of the additional fund once the GMP was paid. I understand thats 
the amount he eventually received. Theres no evidence to suggest Mr T was entitled to the 
kind of sum hes mentioned. So, if I were to direct that Prudential pays that amount, Id 
essentially be putting Mr T into a better position. And that wouldnt be fair. 
Prudential accepts that its service was at times below standard  particularly during 2020/21 
when it was migrating its systems and due to the global pandemic. So, as thats not in 
dispute, I see no reason to go into that matter in any great detail. But I can appreciate Mr Ts 
position that it caused him great stress trying to contact Prudential. Especially when trying to 
sort out a matter as important as a pension.
However, I think Prudentials offer of £500 compensation in total is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im satisfied it recognises the impact of its handling of things on Mr T and the 
communication issues he faced in particular. 
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle 
the complaint. I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances. I understand that Mr T hasnt 
yet cashed the cheques that Prudential sent him and its possible the payment may now 
need to be reissued. My decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should 
arrange for the payment to be reissued if thats necessary.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman