DRN-2771080
The complaint
Mr K has complained that QIC Europe Ltd significantly delayed repairing his car under the 
terms of his motor trade insurance policy.
Reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged in an accident. QIC arranged repairs but that process met with a 
series of delays. Mr K brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. He said that QIC was responsible for some delays but he felt that others were outside 
of its control. To address the impact of its delays, our investigator recommended that QIC 
pay Mr K £400 compensation. Mr K didn't think that went far enough, so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as our 
investigator recommended.
I've seen that from the date of the accident until completion of the repairs took over eight 
months. So I can understand why Mr K was upset to be without his car for that period. But 
not all of those delays were because of things QIC did or didn't do.
I've seen that QIC put the wheels in motion to begin the repairs on the day Mr K notified it of 
the accident. But for reasons that aren't clear, QICs garage nominated to do the repairs 
didn't pick up Mr Ks car for around 25 days. That clearly wasn't fair or reasonable and I can 
understand Mr K must have found this immensely frustrating.
Then, shortly after, the garage was forced to close because of the pandemic. I don't think 
there was anything QIC could do about that. Around two months later Mr K found out that 
the garage had gone out of business. QIC confirmed that was the case but another garage 
had taken over the work, although it seems this added around another month of delay.
Following that I understand the garage ran into problems caused by a fault with the cars 
ECU. The garage took the car to the manufacturer but it wasn't able to fix the ECU problem. 
The garage then had to source a specialist to be able to do the work to fix the ECU. I 
understand that took some months to find a specialist capable of doing the work. And, after 
the ECU was fixed the garage then identified that further repair work was required delaying 
the repairs even more. I do understand that Mr K found the, seemingly never-ending, delays 
incredibly frustrating. But it seems that, apart from the delay at the outset when the first 
garage didn't pick up the car, and then a second delay after that garage went out of 
business, the other delays appear to have been beyond QICs control and largely caused 
because of the pandemic and the nature of the specialist work required.
Mr Ks said the repairs should have been a very easy fix. But I think hes mistaken. As I've 
said above its apparent that the cars manufacturer wasn't able to sort out the issues with the 
ECU. And QIC had to find a specialist repairer capable of doing that. It said that it tried 
multiple manufacturer specialists before it could find one that was able to do the work. So I 
don't agree that the repairs should have been easy to fix. 
That said, as I've said above, there were clearly significant periods where QIC did contribute 
to the delays. But I note that it did go some way to reduce the impact of that. In particular 
QICs garages provided Mr K with courtesy cars while his car was in for repair. However, his 
policy didn't entitle him to a courtesy car at all. So the courtesy cars were provided on a 
goodwill basis. And had it not been for that then Mr K would have found himself in the 
position of having to source and pay for alternative transport himself. 
Mr K was particularly unhappy that the first courtesy car was too small for his needs. But, 
even where motor policies do entitle the policyholder to a courtesy car, the car provided is 
usually a small three door hatchback type car. Courtesy cars are designed to keep the 
policyholder mobile and not to provide a like-for-like replacement for the car under repair. 
But in any event, as I've said above, Mr K didn't have any entitlement to a courtesy car of 
any size, so QIC didn't have to provide one. It follows that I don't think QIC needs to do 
anything further because Mr K found the first courtesy car too small. 
Mr Ks argued that QIC should reimburse him for the finance repayments he made on the 
car while it was in for repairs. But I don't think thats fair. 
The reason that Mr Ks car required repairs in the first place was because of the accident 
and not because of anything QIC did. And Mr Ks policy covers him to repair his car, not to 
cover his costs for buying it. Each finance payment Mr K made was a contribution towards 
the value of the car. And each of those repayments went towards securing the car as his 
personal asset. 
I don't therefore think its reasonable to expect QIC to contribute towards those costs, as 
thats not something his policy covers. And, for the most part, Mr K had a courtesy car even 
though his policy didn't entitle him to one. So while he would have lost the enjoyment of his 
own car he was still mobile. It follows that I'm not going to instruct QIC to cover any of the 
costs of Mr Ks finance repayments.
That said, I agree that QIC did unfairly contribute to the delays. So to put things right I think it 
should pay Mr K £400 compensation. I appreciate Mr K doesn't think that sum is enough. 
But I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Thats because its in line with 
awards we make in other cases of similar seriousness, and because QIC has already gone 
some way to address the impact of its delays by providing Mr K with a courtesy car he 
wasn't entitled to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr K 
£400 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman