DRN-3104981
The complaint
Mr A complains about the amount Europa Group Limited (trading as Ingenie Services) 
charged him when it cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a motor insurance policy through Ingenie Services. He applied for the policy 
on a comparison website, and Ingenie acted as an insurance intermediary and credit broker. 
The policy provided cover for social, domestic and pleasure use. The premium for the policy 
was £553.26, including optional UK breakdown cover and vehicle replacement cover. Mr A 
was also charged a set-up fee of £50 for a box that transmitted telematic data.
During the application process, Mr A was asked how many years no-claims bonus (NCB) he 
had. He responded that he had five years NCB.
On the day the policy started, Ingenie sent Mr A a welcome letter. In the letter, it asked him 
to send it proof of his NCB within 14 days. Mr A didnt send the required proof within that 
timeframe. But he sent it just under four weeks after the policy started, after Ingenie chased 
him.
A few days after receiving Mr As proof of NCB, Ingenie told him the NCB he had wasnt 
valid for the type of insurance hed taken out, as hed accumulated it on a private hire (taxi) 
policy. So it had recalculated his premium without the NCB. It had also adjusted it to take 
into account a windscreen claim which Mr A hadnt disclosed. The combined effect of the 
adjustments was that Mr A needed to pay an additional £383.70, made up of additional 
premium and a £25 administration fee. It said the additional charge could be paid in full or 
split over Mr As remaining monthly payments.
When Ingenie hadnt received the additional payment eight days later, it told Mr A his policy 
would be cancelled with effect from the following week. Mr A then complained that hed been 
charged a substantial cancellation fee. Ingenie reiterated that the policy would continue if he 
paid the additional £383.70, but that it couldnt accept Mr As NCB, as it had been accrued 
on a private hire insurance policy. Mr A said the increased premium was too much. He 
explained that hed found cheaper insurance elsewhere. And he confirmed that he was 
aware that the policy would be cancelled.
A few days after the cancellation took effect, Ingenie told Mr A that there was a balance 
outstanding on his account of £176.14. It said it would charge that sum to his payment card 
within seven days. And it said that it would instruct debt collectors to recover the amount if 
the payment wasnt successful.
A couple of weeks later Mr A contacted Ingenie to query why hed been charged a 
cancellation fee, given that it had been Ingenie which had cancelled the policy and hed only 
had cover for a month and a half. He complained that Ingenie had charged the £176.14 to 
his payment card without his authority or knowledge. Mr A arranged for his payment card 
provider to reverse the £176.14 payment, and Ingenie instructed debt collectors to recover it.
Ingenie said that it had been left with no option but to reduce Mr As NCB on the policy to 
zero, and to increase his premium by £383.70. It explained that there had been a 14-day 
cooling-off period. And since the cancellation had taken place after that, it had charged Mr A 
the premium for the time hed been covered by the policy plus the box fee and its 
arrangement and cancellation fees. It had charged a further £20 when it had transferred the 
debt to a debt collection company. The total it said was due amounted to £383.97, which 
was £176.14 more than Mr A had paid. Mr A was unhappy with Ingenies response, and 
brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said she didnt think Ingenie had been wrong to cancel Mr As insurance 
policy, as it hadnt received the correct information about his NCB. And she didnt think 
Ingenie could be blamed for this. She said Mr A had decided not to continue with the policy, 
and the fees and charges that Ingenie had charged him were all made clear when he took 
out the policy, and were in accordance with Ingenies terms and conditions for policies 
cancelled outside the cooling-off period.
Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Ingenie on 10 September 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im planning to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ingenie has provided a screenshot of a section of the online application which Mr A 
completed on the comparison site. It asks:
How many years no-claims bonus do you have?
If the applicant clicked on the explanatory note, it explained that:
a no claims bonus (NCB) is awarded for each continuous year you hold private car 
insurance in your own name without making a claim.
I acknowledge that Ingenie didnt draft the questions itself. But as an intermediary, it was 
Ingenies responsibility to ensure that it gathered the necessary information from Mr A for the 
insurer to be able to decide whether it was willing to offer Mr A insurance, and if so, on what 
terms. And in this case, I dont consider that the question Mr A was asked about his NCB 
was clear enough.
The question was, on the face of it, straightforward. It wasnt qualified by reference to any 
particular type of motor insurance policy, and I think an applicant could reasonably have 
answered the question without feeling a need to look at the explanatory note. But if the 
applicant did click on the note, it didnt say they should only include NCB years earned on 
certain types of policy. Instead, it was worded in such a way as to purport to explain what an 
NCB was. And it didnt give any clear indication that there were circumstances in which an 
NCB wouldnt be accepted. So taking everything into account, I dont think that it ought to 
have been obvious to Mr A that the NCB from his private hire taxi policy wouldnt be 
acceptable to the insurer.Ive borne in mind that Mr A was late in providing his proof of NCB. And if hed provided it 
early in the 14-day cooling-off period, the issue might have been picked up in time for him to 
cancel before the cooling-off period ended. But given that I dont think that Ingenie had given 
him any cause to think there might be a problem with his NCB, hed have had no reason to 
think that the terms of the policy would be different once he provided the requested proof.
And if Mr A had provided the proof towards the end of the 14-day cooling-off period, the 
issue might not have been picked up in time anyway. I can see that it took Ingenie four days 
to tell Mr A that his NCB wasnt acceptable, once it received the proof.
And if the application form had specified up-front that it was only NCBs on certain types of 
policy that counted its likely that Mr A had realised from the outset that the premium would 
be over £1,000 rather than the £643 that he signed up for. And I think its likely that hed 
have decided to go elsewhere for his insurance, as he did when he found out how much the 
premium would be without the NCB. So Mr A wouldnt have been in the position of having to 
send Ingenie proof of his NCB in the first place. Nor would he have incurred the credit 
transaction fee or the charges for the telematic box or the UK breakdown and vehicle 
replacement cover which, under normal circumstances, were non-refundable after the 14-
day cooling-off period had ended.
When Mr A told Ingenie that the increased premium was too much, and that hed found 
cheaper insurance elsewhere, I think it would have been helpful of Ingenie to point out that 
thered be fees and non-refundable elements of the premium still to pay. But I dont need to 
consider this point further because, as Ive explained, my view is that if Ingenie had been 
clear about the NCB requirements, Mr A wouldnt have agreed to the policy, so wouldnt 
have agreed to pay those amounts at all.
I think its reasonable that Mr A should pay a pro-rated premium for the time the policy was 
live. But having thought carefully about what happened, and about everything and Ingenie 
have told us, I dont think its fair that Mr A should pay more than that.
Mr A paid £128.65 when the policy was set up, and one instalment of £59.18. So at the point 
when the policy was cancelled, hed paid a total of £187.83. Ingenie then debited a further 
£176.14, making a total payment by Mr A of £383.97. This was made up as follows:
Pro-rated premium for the time the policy was live £55.37
UK breakdown cover and vehicle replacement cover £113.98
Box fee £50
Premium Credit transaction fee £24.62
Cancellation charge £80
Arrangement fee £40
Fee for transfer to debt collector £20
Total £383.97
I understand that Mr A arranged for the £176.14 charge to be reversed through his credit 
card provider, and that since then, Ingenie has been pursuing him for that amount through a 
debt collection agency. Given my provisional finding that it isnt appropriate for Mr A to pay 
more in total than the £55.37 pro-rated premium for the time the policy was on risk, I consider that it would be inappropriate of Ingenie to continue to pursue Mr A for further 
payment at this time.
The reversal of the £176.14 charge means that Mr A has effectively paid £187.83 in total. 
Given that I consider he should only have paid the £55.37 pro-rated the time the policy was 
on risk, Ingenie should refund the difference of £132.46.
Putting things right
Ingenie should:
stop all recovery action against Mr A for the balance which it says is outstanding;
refund all money fees and charges that Mr A paid for the policy except for the 
£55.37 which is properly chargeable for the time the policy was on risk. I calculate 
the refund amount to be £132.46;
add simple interest to the refund at a rate of 8% per year from the dates Mr A 
made the payments until the date(s) of the refund; and
remove all records of the cancellation of Mr As policy from its own databases 
and from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange. 
Further submissions
Mr A hasnt responded to my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now 
expired. But Ingenie has told us it doesnt agree with my provisional decision. 
Ingenie says that my view that the application which Mr A completed didnt say they should 
only include NCB earned on certain types of policy doesnt take into account that the 
explanatory note clearly indicated that the NCB earned was in relation to private car 
insurance. It points out that the explanatory note said: 
a no claims bonus (NCB) is awarded for each continuous year you hold private car 
insurance in your own name without making a claim.
And it says this indicates that bonus earned from a taxi policy wouldnt be applicable.
It says that in addition, it thinks that the expectation that all relevant criteria should be visible 
without the need for explanatory notes would result in an unreasonable amount of text, 
reducing readability, and is not in line with standard practice.
Ingenie has reiterated that as there was no response to its request for proof of Mr As NCB 
within 14 days, it believes that the fees and charges applied when the policy was cancelled 
were in line with its published terms of business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not satisfied that theres a good reason to depart from the findings I set 
out in my provisional decision.
Ive thought about what Ingenie has said in response to my provisional decision. But my view remains that the question How many years no-claims bonus do you have? would have 
appeared to the applicant to be a straightforward question. There was nothing in the wording 
of question that gave any warning or suggestion that no-claims bonuses on some types of 
policy might not count. Im satisfied that Mr A answered the question honestly. And I think it 
was understandable if he answered what appeared to be an uncomplicated question without 
feeling the need to click on the icon to open the explanatory note.
That doesnt imply, as Ingenie have suggested, that I consider that all relevant criteria 
should be visible without the need for explanatory notes. I accept that that could result in an 
unmanageable amount of text. But in this case, the question the applicant was required to 
answer appeared to be straightforward. And it wouldnt have taken much text to warn the 
applicant that no claims bonuses on some types of policy wouldnt be counted towards the 
total, and that it was important that they read the explanatory note before answering the 
question.
Whats more, I remain of the view that even if Mr A had read the explanatory note, it wasnt 
fully clear that the no claims bonus hed accrued on his private hire policy wouldnt count. 
The note didnt tell applicants only to include NCBs accrued on certain types of policy. 
Instead, it purported to define what a NCB is.
I accept that Mr A didnt provide the requested proof of his NCB until after the 14-day period. 
But as I said in my provisional decision, if the question Mr A was asked about his NCB 
during the application process had been as clear as it should have been, I think its unlikely 
that hed have taken the policy out in the first place, given the level of premium hed have 
been quoted. So my view remains that Ingenie should put things right by doing as I set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Europa Group Limited (trading as 
Ingenie Services) to put things right by doing as Ive set out under the heading Putting 
things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman