DRN-3233408
The complaint
Mr D complains about the level of service provided by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited that led him to cancel his telematics motor insurance policy. He wants a full refund of 
his premiums and calculates his loss for this and his trouble and upset at £212. 
What happened
Mr D took out a telematics policy with Advantage but he was unhappy that it wasnt 
recording all his journeys and so he cancelled it. Advantage then charged him for his time on 
cover and its arrangement fee. But Mr D thought he should receive a full refund as he 
thought it wasnt his decision to cancel. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had provided Mr D with sufficient information about the policy when he bought it. 
He thought it had reasonably responded to Mr Ds concerns and provided further advice 
about how to configure his phone to improve compatibility with the telematics application. 
And he thought it had waived its cancellation fee and so he thought its charges on 
cancellation were in keeping with its terms and conditions and fair and reasonable. 
Mr D replied that Advantage had threatened to cancel the policy, so he had to deal with that 
threat. He thought he should have received a full refund as Advantage had effectively 
cancelled his policy because of its defective equipment. Mr D asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D told us that Advantage had cancelled his policy because its equipment was defective. I 
can understand that he would feel frustrated that he had paid his full years premium but 
didnt receive a full refund. Mr Ds provided us with a detailed submission to explain his 
complaint and Ive considered this and the other evidence available. 
In his submission, Mr D said he didnt know the black box was a condition of his policy until 
after he had taken it out. Ive looked at the online journey Mr D made when he bought his 
policy online. I can see that Advantage made it clear that the telematics equipment was a 
condition of the policy and Mr D had agreed with this in order to proceed with his purchase. 
So I dont agree that Mr D wasnt given enough information about the policy requirements 
before he bought it. And after purchase he was sent a policy document. So he could have 
cancelled his policy within the 14 day cooling off period if it didnt suit him. 
Mr D said the equipment was defective. I can see that Advantage investigated this, found 
that two journeys had been recorded and confirmed that his driving was OK. But it thought 
there may be issues with phone compatibility with its application. So it gave Mr D advice on 
how to remedy this and then asked him to test the equipment with a journey. 
Mr D said he did this, but it wasnt successful. But I cant see that he then called Advantage 
back as it had requested. So I think Advantage reasonably listened to Mr Ds concerns and 
tried to resolve them to avoid the inconvenience of cancellation. 
Mr D said Advantage threatened to cancel the policy because the telematics wasnt picking 
up his journey data. But I havent seen any evidence of this. I think Mr D first raised a 
concern that not all his journeys were being recorded and that he was looking for an 
alternative policy. From what I can see, Mr D then requested the policy be cancelled, albeit 
he added the stipulation that he wanted a full refund.
Advantages cancellation letter said the policy was cancelled due to issues with the driving 
data that werent resolved. So I think it was Mr Ds decision to cancel the policy. 
Mr D said he was unhappy with the charges when the policy was cancelled. But I think the 
charges are clearly set out in Advantages terms and conditions. I think Mr D agreed to 
accept these when he bought his policy. 
I think Advantage reasonably backdated the cancellation to the date that Mr D first requested 
this. It applied a charge for his time on cover, which I think was fair and reasonable as 
Advantage was at risk for this period. And it applied just its charge for its arrangement fee 
when it could also have applied its cancellation charge and telematics fee in keeping with its 
terms and conditions. I think this was very fair and reasonable as a way of resolving Mr Ds 
complaint. I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman