DRN-1622653
 
complaint
Mr H and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. For ease, Ill refer to the business as 
Santander for the majority of the rest of this decision.
background
Mr H and Mrs H took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 2002. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy, and it covered Mr H and Mrs H for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H and Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr H and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I dont doubt that Mr H and Mrs H have given us their best recollections of the events of 
2002. And Ive thought carefully about what they have said, including that they thought this 
was part of the mortgage. Santander has defended itself reference the sale of the PPI. 
So, both sides disagree. Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no 
documents available from the time of the sale that clearly demonstrate things. But the sale 
happened over 18 years ago, so Im not surprised that neither Santander nor Mr H and Mrs 
H have been able to provide documents that clarify matters fully. Where there is missing or 
insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of 
probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, 
and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened.
Ive noted that the mortgage application contains no reference to PPI. Santander has said 
that the PPI required Mr H and Mrs H to complete an application form for the PPI which was 
separate to, and not dependent on, the application they made for the mortgage. And 
Santander has told us that the PPI was paid for by a separate direct debit. And considering 
the mortgage application, that seems most likely. 
And I have considered that Santander has provided a welcome letter they say they sent to 
Mr H and Mrs H explaining the PPI that they say Mr H and Mrs H agreed to. The language it uses is of something that has been chosen. It says, "Thank you for choosing Paymentcare to 
protect your mortgage payments".
So, having considered all the submissions made to us in this case, and having listened to 
what both sides have said, on balance I think its more likely that Mr H and Mrs H did agree 
to take the cover and did so knowing they had a choice about it, even if they dont remember 
that now, many years later. But even if I hadnt had these documents to think about, 
considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I wouldnt have seen sufficient evidence 
to be able to uphold the complaint on these points.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr H and Mrs H, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. For example Mr H and Mrs H were eligible for the policy and were 
not affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And they seem to have 
had a need for the cover. Mr H and Mrs H told us they each had good sick pay initially, but 
that it dropped significantly after six months. Mr H and Mrs H told us that they had 
some savings they could have relied on. But I have noted that they chose to protect those 
savings at the time of buying their first property. They chose to take a mortgage on a 95% 
loan to value rather than to use those funds to have a lower mortgage. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay that Mr H and Mrs H told us about, and would 
have further protected their savings. And it would also have provided some useful cover in 
the event that they lost a job. So, thinking about all of this and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think Mr H and Mrs H could 
have found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr H and Mrs H.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr H and Mrs H, Santander also had to give 
them clear enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Santander gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or 
better information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. So, I 
dont think Mr H and Mrs H have lost out as a result of anything Santander may have done 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman