DRN-3745861
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Coverwise Ltd auto-renewed their annual travel insurance 
policy. 
As Mrs M brought the complaint, for ease of reading, Ive mainly referred simply to her.
What happened
Mrs M took out an annual travel insurance policy in November 2018, which was due to 
automatically renew in November 2019. Coverwise sent Mrs M a renewal quote ahead of the 
renewal date and Mrs M got in touch with Coverwise to opt out of the renewal.
Later in November 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out another policy through Coverwise. This 
policy was due to expire on 18 November 2020. On 28 October 2020, Coverwise sent Mrs M 
an email which explained that the policy was scheduled to auto-renew for a further 12 
months. The email also included a renewal quote for the following year. As Coverwise didnt 
hear from Mrs M, the policy renewed in November 2020.
In October 2021, Coverwise sent Mrs M a further renewal quote. At this point, Mrs M 
contacted Coverwise to opt out of renewal. She was unhappy that the policy had auto 
renewed in 2020. She said she hadnt received the renewal information in 2020. And she 
said that given the country had been in lockdown in November 2020, due to the impact of 
Covid-19, she definitely wouldnt have gone ahead with auto-renewing. Shed taken out a 
new policy elsewhere in August 2021, as she hadnt realised she already had insurance. 
She requested a refund of the 2020-21 premium.
However, Coverwise didnt think it had made an error and therefore, it didnt agree to refund 
Mrs Ms premium. So Mrs M asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt Coverwise had 
shown itd sent Mrs M a renewal email in October 2020. And she didnt think Mrs M had got 
in touch with Coverwise to opt out of the renewal. So she didnt think it needed to refund the 
premium Mrs M had paid.
Mrs M disagreed. She didnt think Coverwises email evidence was proof that shed received 
it. If shed done so, she said she wouldve contacted it to cancel the auto renewal. She also 
said that she hoped complaints being made about the auto renewal process will lead to 
companies being required to have an opt-in rather than opt-out renewal process.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, I dont think Coverwise has treated her 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear our role. Were not the industry regulator. So we have no 
power to fine or punish the financial businesses we cover. Nor can we tell financial 
businesses to change their procedures or processes. Our role is to look into individual 
complaints to decide whether a financial business has done something wrong, which has 
caused a consumer to lose out.
I should also make clear that Coverwise wasnt the underwriter of Mrs Ms policy. It acted as 
the policy broker and it collected premiums on the insurers behalf. I note that the insurers 
policy terms and conditions contain a term which states that if a policyholder still meets its 
eligibility criteria, it will seek to automatically renew a policy. As such, Coverwise wasnt 
responsible for the drafting of the term in the contract.
It's common ground that when Mrs M received the auto renewal notification in October 2019, 
she contacted Coverwise to opt-out of auto renewal. Its also agreed that Mrs M later took 
out another annual policy through Coverwise, which began in November 2019. This policy 
included the auto renewal term Ive referred to above.
Accordingly and in line with the terms of the insurance contract, Coverwise emailed Mrs M 
on 28 October 2020 to provide a renewal quote and to confirm that the policy was due to 
renew. I appreciate Mrs M says that she didnt receive a copy of this email and Ive thought 
about this carefully. But Ive seen a copy of the email, which was sent at 5.24 on 28 October 
2020 and which was addressed to the email address Coverwise usually used to correspond 
with Mrs M. This email set out that Mrs Ms existing policy was due to renew on 18 
November 2020 and that it was scheduled to auto renew for a further 12 months. The email 
also included a box which was titled What you need to do now. This said:
If you would like to make any change to your policy details or wish to cancel your renewal, 
please contact our UK Sales and Service office
However, if you are satisfied that your existing policy continues to meet your needs, your 
details are unchanged, and you are happy with your quotation, you do not have to do 
anything
We will apply for payment of the quotation 2 days before expiry and will automatically renew 
your existing policy and let you know when your new policy is issued. We will send your 
documentation to your registered email address. 
In my view, the available evidence shows that its more likely than not that Coverwise did 
send Mrs M the renewal email, even if she didnt receive it. I think the wording of the email is 
sufficiently clear to alert Mrs M to the fact that the policy was due to renew and what shed 
need to do if she didnt want this to happen. And Coverwise says it didnt receive any contact 
from Mrs M, asking it not to renew the policy. So I dont think it made any error when it 
processed the auto-renewal.
Ive also considered a screenshot Mrs M has provided which shows emails she received 
from Coverwise. While I accept the email of 28 October 2020 isnt listed, I can see an email 
from Coverwise dated 16 November 2020 and titled Your Coverwise Travel Policy  
information regarding your Coverwise travel insurance. This email was sent two days before 
the old policy was due to expire and it seems to me, given the detail set out in the renewal 
email, that it was likely to confirm the policy had auto renewed and that the new premium 
had been taken. If Mrs M wasnt happy that the policy had auto-renewed, it was open to her 
to contact Coverwise on receipt of this email and to cancel the policy within the 14-day 
cooling-off period. Its possible that this email was directed to Mrs Ms junk email folder. But 
I cant fairly or reasonably hold Coverwise responsible for any direction of Mrs Ms emails by 
her email provider.Mrs M says that given the country was in lockdown at the point of renewal, she wouldnt 
have agreed to take out the policy. Its important I make clear that Coverwise didnt retain the 
premium it collected from Mrs M  it collected the payment on behalf of the insurer. And as 
Ive said, Coverwise wasnt insuring Mrs M during the policy year  the underwriter was. But 
as Ive set out above, I think Coverwises renewal email was most likely sent to Mrs M, along 
with subsequent renewal documentation. I find the renewal quote was sufficiently clear and I 
dont think Coverwise did anything wrong when it renewed her policy. So overall, Im not 
telling Coverwise to refund Mrs Ms premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman