DRN-4299648
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Wakam Insurance Company (Wakam) declined his claim and
avoided his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S obtained a home insurance policy from Wakam in November 2022. A few days later, a
delivery driver crashed into a gate at his property and initially accepted liability. The delivery
firm then handed the matter over to insurers. In January 2023, Mr S contacted Wakam to
make a claim on his policy.
Wakam declined to process the claim and avoided the policy in March 2023. It said that Mr S
had misrepresented how many bathrooms he had at his home when he took out his
insurance policy. It said that Mr S had five bedrooms but had declared that he had three and
it couldnt provide cover where there were five bathrooms. Mr S complained and said he was
never advised how Wakam defined bathroom. He wanted Wakam to re-instate his policy
and accept his claim. However, Wakam maintained its stance and said that bathrooms had
been clearly explained when Mr S bought his policy. It added that reasonable care was not
taken by Mr S. Mr S then referred his complaint to this service. In the meantime, Mr S
subsequently took the delivery firm to court and the matter was concluded in his favour.
The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He thought that Wakam had
demonstrated that Mr S didnt take reasonable care when he made his claim on the policy. 
Mr S was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter was therefore referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In July 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint as 
follows:-The key question for me to determine is whether Wakam acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner in avoiding Mr Ss policy on the basis of careless misrepresentation. On 
a provisional basis, I dont consider that it did act in a fair and reasonable manner in all
respects and Ill explain the reasons for this provisional decision.
I firstly turn to Mr Ss submissions in this matter. In summary he said that hed declared the
correct number of bathrooms at his property on purchase of his policy, based on the
information available on the website. He didnt think that a definition of bathroom was
provided during the purchase process, and instead this definition was retrospectively applied
by Wakam following purchase of the policy. He said that if this definition had been clear at
the time of purchase, he would have declared that he had five bathrooms, as hed done with
previous insurers. He believed this to be a case of miscommunication and not 
misrepresentation and thought that Wakam should have more clearly defined the term
bathroom throughout the purchase process and within the policy documents.
Mr S further explained that hed been careful to check the information I had given was
correct and matched the Policy I have, and it did. He stated categorically that that the
definition of bathroom had not been provided in the quote process and had not been
displayed on his computer. He said that hed given the number of bathrooms based on the
view that a bathroom must have either a bath or shower in it and he considered that he had
three bathrooms and two toilet rooms. He considered that stating five bathrooms would have
been a case of lying or misrepresentation. At the time he took out the policy, he said that he
checked the wording which in my mind is the contract I have defining what was offered and
accepted. He said hed checked the section in the policy entitled 'words with special
meaning' on inception of the policy to check hed answered everything correctly and he
found that 'bathroom' didnt have a special meaning in it. Mr S considered that this supported
the argument that it had the same meaning as is commonly known, that a bath or shower
must be present in a room for a room to be defined as a bathroom.
Mr S recognised that Wakam argued that hed been careless as hed given answers that he
had five bathrooms previously to other insurers as they told him to include toilet-only rooms,
whereas Wakam had never defined their special meaning. Mr S said hed answered
honestly. He also said that video evidence hed produced showed that Wakam made a false
statement that they always present a definition. He said his evidence also showed that hed
tested the system to see if the number of bathrooms was a material factor and for each
online policy, it didnt even ask how many bathrooms were present. He felt that the link
which Wakam had sent was retrospectively produced and wasnt the same webpage as the
one he completed. He said that Wakam hadnt provided digital evidence of the question it
asked and the answer he gave on the relevant date, and that use of hidden pop-ups for
critical definitions was insufficient.
In conclusion, Mr S said that hed taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
He said this is awful for me mentally. They have convicted me of fraud without any evidence
and made this fact known throughout the insurance (and maybe) wider community... Mr S
described the impact that the episode was having on his health. It also meant that costs had
increased some 300% for home insurance. Mr S said that as he had won his case against
the delivery firm, there was no longer any claim to pursue. However, Mr S wanted Wakam to
offer to reinstate his insurance, remove the statement on his record that he had misled
Wakam and to apologise to him. He felt that Wakam spent more time looking for loopholes
than it took him to win his case in court.
I now turn to Wakams submission regarding this matter. It considered that Mr S had made a
careless misrepresentation when applying for his insurance policy and that its avoidance of
the policy was therefore justified. It provided a screenshot of the answer it said Mr S gave
during the quotation process. Upon investigation, Wakams claims handlers discovered that
Mr Ss property had five bathrooms.
In its letter notifying of policy avoidance in March 2023, Wakam stated that bathrooms were
defined in the quote process as Any room with a bath, shower or toilet, including ensuites
and toilet rooms and it provided a copy of the popup which it said would have been
displayed at the relevant time. It said that when asked why Mr S didnt declare five 
bathrooms in the quote process, he advised that the property had five bathrooms, of which a
couple were toilets. It said that insurers expect all information which could materially affect
the risk that is being proposed is presented correctly and all questions are answered
truthfully. It considered that Mr S made a careless misrepresentation, although it said that
use of the term careless in these circumstances was not to make any moral judgements but
was simply the technical language of the relevant legislation. Wakam confirmed that had Mr
provided the correct information during the quotation process, it wouldnt have offered cover.
Wakam said that its guidance was provided in an information box beside the question How
many bathrooms or toilet rooms does the property have? and that this guidance had been
on the website since before the policy purchase date. It considered that Mr S could have
reasonably declared five bedrooms. It said that it didnt offer an advised sales service and
therefore we rely on the information given to us by customers during the quote process.
Wakam felt that it was Mr Ss responsibility to check the information that he gave was correct
and that he was fully aware of the terms of the policy. It said that it only checked the
information given when a customer submitted a claim. It said it was unable to uphold Mr Sscomplaint and so the policy would remain void due to misrepresentation, however the
premium would be refunded. As to the recording sent by Mr S of the quotation process, it
said that this related to a contents-only policy and that this wasnt the same quotation
process as a building and contents policy.
Ive carefully considered all of the above evidence and submissions. The starting point in
matters of this nature is the wording of relevant policy documents and connected
information. The relevant law regarding misrepresentation is found in the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of
the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer. If a
consumer fails to take care in giving or confirming information, the insurer then has certain
remedies where there is a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying
misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on different terms
or indeed not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. The remedy
available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether any qualifying misrepresentation
was deliberate, reckless, or careless. If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid
the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the
misrepresentation.
Im satisfied on the available evidence that Wakam wouldnt have offered a policy at all if it
had known that Mr Ss property had five bathrooms to include rooms with toilets. The key
issue however is that Wakam has been unable to show on the balance of probabilities that it
had sufficiently drawn Mr Ss attention to its apparent definition of a bathroom when the
policy was sold to him and when the question was asked as to how many bathrooms there
were in his property. Mr S said that hed been careful to check the information hed given
was correct and matched the policy. Ive found Mr Ss evidence to be persuasive in this
respect and his submissions have been candid and consistent throughout.
Wakam said that a pop-up definition screen would have appeared at the relevant time when
Mr S completed his online application. Mr S was adamant however that he hadnt seen it.
Whilst, in the absence of specific evidence, I make no formal finding as to whether a pop-up
actually appeared in this instance, I provisionally conclude on the balance of probabilities
that Mr S didnt see any definition of bathroom which may have been available to view. Vital
information which determines whether cover is available needs to be clearly and specifically
highlighted to the customer, rather than the customer having to search for it. Reliance upon
any pop-up which may or may be viewed and retained by the customer, is insufficient on its
own without something else which draws the customers attention to the definition, such as
the policy documents.
The policy document does define certain special terms but doesnt define what it means by a
bathroom. I accept that it would have been reasonable, without sight of special terms, for
Mr S to have concluded that a dictionary definition of bathroom applied. He noted that this
was a room which included a bath or shower and not just a toilet. Wakam queried the fact
that Mr S has, when taking out insurance in the past, referred to five bathrooms. Mr S said
that this was because previous insurers specifically highlighted what information they
required. In the circumstances, its perhaps surprising that Mr S hadnt queried what Wakam
meant by bathrooms at the relevant time, even if he hadnt appreciated that this could lead
to avoidance of his policy. Therefore, this provisional decision is a finely balanced judgment. 
Nevertheless, my provisional conclusion is that I cant say that Mr S carelessly
misrepresented the facts or that it was unreasonable for him to have concluded that a
bathroom didnt include a room with a toilet, for the reasons given above.
In the circumstances, my provisional conclusion is that there was no qualifying
misrepresentation in this case. It follows that I dont consider that Wakam acted fairly and
reasonably in avoiding Mr Ss policy with the consequences that Mr S has faced, both interms of more expensive insurance and also, in terms of the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced. Im therefore minded to require Wakam to formally record on its systems that
the avoidance of this policy was due to its own error and not that of the customer. It should
also provide a letter to Mr S confirming this point. This will enable Mr S to present this to his
current insurers in order to seek a reduction in premiums and also to future insurers if
necessary. Whilst Mr S no longer needs to pursue his claim as his court action has been
concluded in his favour, I nevertheless consider that Wakam should pay Mr S a modest sum
in compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mr S and Wakam if they had any further comments 
or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S indicated that he was happy with the provisional outcome, however Wakam disagreed 
with the outcome. Wakam made further submissions regarding three aspects of the 
provisional decision as follows. 
Firstly, regarding the definition of bathroom, Wakam supplied a further copy of a 
screenshot, stating that; This is the exact question that Mr [S] answered before selecting 
this policy. It said it didnt require pop-ups to be viewed as the full text was visible on the 
main page, and before Mr [S] selected his answer. Nevertheless, Wakam had originally 
supplied two screenshots, one of which related to the price comparison site which the 
customer clicked from, and one of which related to its own website. In its final response 
letter of March 2023, Wakam specifically referred to the pop-up box which appeared in its 
own quote process and which it said was on its website before Mr S purchased the policy.
In any event, Wakams argument is now that the process used by Mr S specifically asked 
him to include any room containing a toilet. The screenshot used by Wakam is a generic 
screenshot however, which isnt a screenshot of Mr Ss search of the comparison site and is 
undated. As Wakam has been unable to produce evidence of the exact page viewed by Mr S 
on the relevant date, its not clear that this was the wording viewed by Mr S. Even if this was 
the wording viewed by Mr S, I consider that there is a lack of clarity as to whether it intended 
to reference a bathroom containing a toilet, as opposed to any room containing a toilet, as 
the wording appears under the heading bathroom. The provisional decision explains that it 
would be reasonable to assume that a bathroom would include a bath or a shower. I 
therefore remain of the view that Mr S didnt see any clear definition of bathroom. I also 
remain of the view that Vital information which determines whether cover is available needs 
to be clearly and specifically highlighted to the customer, rather than the customer having to 
search for it.
Secondly, Wakam didnt think that the provisional decision gave sufficient weight or fair 
consideration to the fact that Mr S chose to give a different answer this year, to answers he 
had previously given in respect of the number of bathrooms at his home. I agree with 
Wakam that evidence wasnt supplied by Mr S that the previous insurers provided any extra 
definitions or further information on answering questions about bathrooms that are included 
in this policy. In this respect the provisional decision made it clear that it was a finely 
balanced provisional judgment. I have therefore carefully considered Wakams further 
submissions in this respect. On the balance of probabilities however, Im persuaded by Mr 
Ss written evidence that previous insurers had specifically highlighted what information they 
required whilst Wakam hadnt. In my provisional decision, I stated that its perhaps 
surprising that Mr S hadnt queried what Wakam meant by bathrooms at the relevant time, even if he hadnt appreciated that this could lead to avoidance of his policy. Having said 
that, Im mindful that customers often dont remember responses provided to specific 
questions given in previous years regarding various insurance policies. They are expected to 
look at the relevant insurers guidance each time they take out insurance. On balance, I 
remain of the view that the guidance wasnt sufficiently clear in this case. Im satisfied in all 
the circumstances that it would be unfair to make a finding that Mr S failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Thirdly, Wakam disagreed that Mr Ss submissions had been candid and consistent
throughout. It referred to the fact that Mr S submitted a video which he maintained was 
evidence that Wakam hadnt asked about the number of bathrooms. It said that the evidence 
related to a different type of policy, being a contents-only policy, when his policy was a 
combined buildings and contents policy. It said that this would have had a different question-
set. Wakam thought that this was an obvious case of misrepresentation. It was surprised 
that the service would let this go unchallenged, however the service did indeed challenge Mr 
S on this point. Im satisfied however that Mr S gave the investigator a credible response as 
to his confusion on this point, and that he thought that the offer in the video related to home 
insurance and that the words contents insurance werent displayed.
In all the circumstances, whilst I appreciate Wakams strength of opinion on this matter, Im 
satisfied on the balance of probabilities, that Mr S didnt make a qualifying misrepresentation 
in this matter. Im also satisfied that the provisional decision provided a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
 .
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Wakam Insurance 
Company to do the following in response to his complaint: -
- Formally record upon its systems that the avoidance of Mr Ss policy was due to its own
error and not that of the customer. It should also provide a letter to Mr S confirming this
point.
- Pay compensation in the sum of £250 to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced, within 28 days of his acceptance of the final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman