DRN-3351122
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from losing money 
to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr C has explained that in 2019 he made the following debit card payments and bank 
transfers from his current account held with HSBC (and other accounts which are not the 
subject of this complaint), for what he later realised was an investment scam.
Transaction 
No. Date PayeeMethod of 
payment
Amount (£) NSTF (£) Total (£)
13 April 
2019VIVZ ODSTENPNY 
ZAVOInternational 
Bank Transfer £5,000.37 £4 £5,004.37
210 April 
2019Advice 
confirms/Moorwand 
LtdCredit
£1,682.10 £3,322.27
320 May 
2019 Simplex_BitstampVisa debit card 
(international 
payment) £11,500.51 £316.26 £15,139.04
Total 14,818.78 320.26 15,139.04
Mr C got in touch with HSBC on 31 May 2019 when he realised hed been scammed. 
Ultimately HSBC didnt reimburse Mr Cs loss, so he referred his complaint about HSBC to 
this service. As our investigator  who recommended that the complaint be upheld  was 
unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Was Mr C scammed?
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, my first consideration must be whether Mr C was most likely scammed. 
Mr C has explained he was dealing with 10 Capital. That is, the payments he made were for 
what he thought was a legitimate investment with 10 Capital. Ive noted the FCA published a 
warning about 10 Capital on 14 May 2019. It further uploaded this warning on the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Investor Alerts portal on 15 
May 2019. Amongst other things the FCA said the warning was related to fraudulent or 
manipulative practices (insider dealing, market manipulation, misrepresentation of material 
information, etc.). 
Mr C was asked to first pay legitimate crypto exchanges before his payments would be 
forwarded onto 10 Capital. 
This means Im satisfied the payments in this case were most likely destined for 10 Capital.
Taking everything together Im persuaded 10 Capital was operating a scam and most likely 
received the payments in dispute here.
Prevention
Its common ground that Mr C authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by the scammers into instructing HSBC to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Mr C was tricked. So although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
The first payment
I dont think the investigators assessment on this was unreasonable. There is a balance to 
be struck but at the point of the first payment (an international payment for £5,000.37 to a 
new payee), HSBC reasonably ought to have spoken to Mr C, before allowing the payment 
through, and to have asked Mr C who the payment was for, what it was for, and for the basic 
surrounding context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention 
to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. This payment was substantially higher than 
any payments hed made leading up to the scam. 
I have no reason to believe Mr C wouldnt have been open with HSBC. HSBC reasonably 
ought to, therefore, have quickly learned from such a conversation with Mr C the basic 
background to the payment instruction  that Mr C was sending money to 10 Capital for the 
purpose of a binary options type investment, which hed seen on Facebook. 
I think this really ought to have raised flags for a professional bank like HSBC  either there 
and then, or after HSBC referring internally for advice before reverting back to Mr C 
regarding whether the payment should be allowed through. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect Mr C from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it really 
ought to have invited Mr C to look more closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders 
is that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at 
that time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known 
even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with binary options 
trading, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City 
of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options 
fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback 
scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from merchants often 
unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth). After all, scams 
like this arent new to regulated firms. And it seems likely HSBC wouldve seen numerous 
consumer complaints about scams like this.
The FCA warning about 10 Capital wasnt published until 10 May 2019 (10 days before the 
second payment). But, given what Ive said above, I think HSBC ought to have given Mr C a 
very stern warning indeed, including explaining how scams like this work, and the red flag 
surrounding the lack of regulation, advertising on Facebook and having to first buy crypto 
before sending it onto the trader to invest. And I do think that Mr C would most likely have 
listened and taken HSBCs warnings seriously. The FCA warning about 10 Capital wasnt yet 
published (although it would have been by the second payment on 20 May 2019). But I do 
think  if necessary after referring internally for advice  that HSBC ought to have been able 
to impress upon Mr C the risk he was being scammed, and that ultimately this would likely 
have led to Mr C ceasing payments to the scammers. So I think that if HSBC had done what 
it reasonably ought to have done, its most likely Mr C wouldnt have proceeded with the first 
payment, nor indeed the second payment.
Ive taken note of the fact that Mr C received a credit of €2,000 before the second payment. 
But Ive also noted that early withdrawals are often permitted in similar scams to:
a) Legitimise the payee
b) Encourage further larger deposits 
Its unsurprising therefore that Mr C was persuaded to invest larger sums after receiving this 
credit. I think a financial professional like HSBC could have explained the common tactics 
used in similar scams in order to inform Mr C of the common operation of such scams. 
Did Mr C contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr C couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he 
was dealing with a scammer. Once Mr C was provided access to his trading account, he saw 
large balances and I dont think he could have reasonably known that the trading balance 
was likely fake or a simulation  unless prompted by his trusted bank. 
Ive noted HSBCs concern about Mr C paying money to release money but this is again, a 
common feature of this type of scam. I dont think Mr C failed by believing what the scammer 
told him to be true. HSBC is of course more familiar with this type of scam than a lay 
consumer. 
Overall, I dont think Mr C contributed to his losses, so I dont suggest the overall settlement 
be reduced. Putting things right
Ive explained why I think, if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done, Mr C 
would not have lost the payments in dispute.
HSBC should therefore pay Mr C £15,139.04. Ive already deducted the credit received by 
the scammers and included the NSTFs as I dont think these would have been incurred had 
HSBC stopped the first payment as I think it should have. To compensate Mr C for having 
been deprived of this money, HSBC should also pay Mr C interest on the loss at 8% simple 
per year, calculated from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank plc should refund to 
Mr C all of his stolen payments plus the associated fees (NSTFs). Interest should be applied 
at 8% simple, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of settlement (less any 
lawfully deductible tax). 
As Mr C received €2,000 in pay-out inducements from 10 Capital, these should be 
deducted from the overall settlement. This leaves a total loss balance of £15,139.04.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman