DRN-3423213
The complaint
Mr A complains that London & Colonial Services Limited shouldnt have accepted his 
application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from The Alliance Partnership
s.r.o. Mr A complains that The Alliance Partnership s.r.o. was an unregulated introducer and 
therefore London & Colonial Services Limited should not have accepted investments into his 
SIPP from The Alliance Partnership s.r.o.; that London & Colonial Services Limited did not 
undertake sufficient due diligence either on The Alliance Partnership s.r.o. or on the 
investments that were made.
Involved Parties
London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C)
L&Cs a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange 
deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a 
personal pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
The Alliance Partnership s.r.o. (TAP)
  
TAPs an EEA authorised financial advisory firm based in the Czech Republic. TAP had 
passported into the UK under the Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) and, at the 
relevant date, was permitted to carry out some regulated activities in the UK. The FCA 
register shows that TAP had some passported permissions in the UK from 19 November 
2008 and that a supervisory run off has been in place since 6 April 2021.
Mr G 
According to Mr A, Mr G held himself out as an authorised agent of TAP and described 
himself as a financial adviser.  
Royal London 360
Royal London 360 is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a wrapper to invest in a 
number of funds with a number of fund providers. Mr A invested in several holdings within 
the Royal London 360 investment platform.
 
L&C and TAPs relationship
As part of our investigation, L&C was asked to provide its files and was also asked a 
series of detailed questions including questions about the due diligence it undertook into 
the introducer (which in this complaint was TAP) and into the investment(s) that were 
made with monies in the SIPP. Some of the questions asked included, when the 
introducer first proposed to become an introducer of L&Cs SIPP business, if it had an 
agreement in place with the introducer, the start and end dates of any such agreement 
and why it ended, details about the levels of business L&C received from the introducer, 
what due diligence it did on the introducer, what its understanding of the introducers 
business model was, whether it undertook any ongoing checks on the introducer, what 
proportion of business it received from the introducer involved transfers from 
occupational pension schemes and copies of all correspondence including relating to any 
due diligence it conducted on the investments made by the consumer.
Despite a number of reminders sent to L&C for the information requested, weve not 
received a substantive response to our enquiries from L&C.
So, L&Cs provided us with very little information about its relationship with TAP. 
However, on a previous case L&C provided us with the below screenshot from 26 
November 2010, to show us how the register looked when it checked before accepting 
business from TAP.
I think its likely that L&Cs relationship with TAP began around the date of the above 
screenshot. And I think its likely its relationship with TAP ended towards the end of 
2011. I say this because L&C wrote to Mr A in November 2011 and informed him that it 
no longer had a business relationship with TAP, and that it wouldnt be able to accept 
instructions on Mr As pension arrangements from Mr G or TAP.
What happened
Based on information received from Mr A and a review of the papers my 
understanding of what happened is as follows.
Mr A, who at the time was self-employed, and had a personal pension with Aviva, 
was looking online for a pension backed loan provider to help with cash flow issues 
related to his business. He came across Pensionloans4you and got in touch with Mr 
G who it seems handled all of his enquiries from then on.
As I understand it, Pensionloans4u.com is a Czech-based broker and it entered into 
a loan agreement with Mr A.
Mr A was advised by Mr G that he could only make an advance if he transferred his 
pension out of Aviva. This was because Mr G would be managing the pension and would 
take an advisor fee, but Aviva would not facilitate such an arrangement.
Mr G advised Mr A that he also represented TAP who would be managing the pension. Mr 
A was introduced to L&C by TAP. A SIPP application form was received by L&C on 27 
January 2011. This confirmed TAP was Mr As independent financial adviser (IFA) and 
that both the initial and renewal fees and commissions would be paid to it.
On 10 February 2011, a total of £194,618.68 was transferred from Aviva to L&C. Most 
of the transferred monies were then invested in a Royal London 360 investment 
wrapper.
On 14 February 2011 a fee of £11,677.12 was paid to TAP. 
On 15 July 2021 Mr A submitted a complaint to L&C. He said that £87,470. 19 had been 
paid out to him by way of drawdown and at 17 February 2021 the SIPP was valued at 
£42,890.59. 
Mr A and his representative have said that:
Mr A had no intention of transferring out of his pension with Aviva before he 
was in contact with TAP.
Mr A was attracted to the SIPP arrangement due to the offer of loans. 
Mr A told Mr G that he wished to avoid big risks.
Mr A was advised that hed be able to achieve a better return by transferring 
into offshore investments.
Mr A received no detailed information about the investments or the risks they 
carried.
Mr A was advised that none of the funds hed invested in were high risk and 
that his investments would be safe, and his capital would be secure. If hed 
been aware of the true extent of the risks involved, he would have reconsidered 
investing.
L&C didnt carry out appropriate due diligence on TAP.
L&C breached its regulatory duties by accepting funds from an unregulated 
introducer.
L&C confirmed receipt of Mr As complaint letter on 23 July 2021. On 26 July 2021 it 
wrote to Mr As representative and stated a formal response would be provided within 8 
weeks. However, we have not seen any formal response from L&C to Mr As complaint.
Mr As representative asked us to review the complaint.
We have asked L&C for its business file and submissions on the complaint. However, 
despite several chasers, L&C hasnt provided any information.
So, Ive considered Mr As complaint based on all the submissions made to date, and 
information L&C has provided on other cases where the introduction was made by 
TAP.
My findings
Mr As dealings with L&C and TAP
Ive set out below a timeline of Mr As key dealings with L&C and TAP.25 January 2011
Mr A signed and dated a SIPP application form with L&C. In brief this confirmed that:
Mr As address was in the UK.
The IFA details were noted as TAP.
TAP was to receive an initial fee of 6% and renewal commission of 1%.
The investments would be managed by TAP.
27 January 2011
L&C sent confirmation of receipt of the SIPP application to Mr A.
7 February 2011
L&C received a letter from TAP stating that Mr As application was attached (as I understand 
it, this related to the Royal London 360 application), and TAP asked L&C to treat it as having 
authority to invest the funds transferred to Royal London 360.
10 February 2011
L&C confirmed to TAP that the SIPP had been established on 10 February 2011. It also sent 
a separate confirmation letter to Mr A.
11 February 2011
L&C sent a signed Corporate & Trustee Application form to Royal London 360. In brief this 
confirmed that:
L&C had received £194,618.68 from Mr As existing pension provider, and just 
under £180,500.00 was to be invested with Royal London 360.
TAP was the appointed financial adviser.
14 February 2011
A Royal London 360 illustration was produced, which confirmed that the initial fee was 
8% with renewal commission of 1%. In fact, an initial IFA Fee of £11,677.12, was paid to 
TAP on 14 February, as noted above. 
25 February 2011
A dealing form signed on 25 February 2011, set out an investment of:
£36,000 in Citifirst Brazil/FTSE Autocall
Following this, further investments were made:
£50,000 in Portman Associates RBC Autocall
£35,000 in Castlestone Management intelligent Port (IQ-Ass All) Inc GBP
£25,000 in Castlestone Management Prot EQ (Emg Markets) Fund Inc GBP 
and,
£25,000 in Alpinvesta Managed Futures Lock in Profit.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. 
The investigator concluded that Mr As complaint, should be upheld. She said that the 
complaint had been raised in time and that L&C, as a SIPP operator, should have known 
that TAP was carrying out activities that it didnt have the necessary permissions to 
perform in the UK. And that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr As introduction from TAP.
Our investigator also thought there were anomalous features to the business being 
introduced by TAP which meant that, it wasnt fair and reasonable for L&C to accept 
business from TAP. Our investigator concluded that it was fair and reasonable for 
L&C to compensate Mr A for his financial loss. The investigators view letter was issued on 18 March 2022 and sent to Mr A and to 
L&C for comment. 
Mr A has made no substantive response to the investigators view other than to ask whether 
it had been accepted by or if any response had been received from L&C. In fact, no 
response has been received from L&C, and therefore this complaints been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
jurisdiction
L&Cs not responded to the investigators view, so its not apparent whether it agrees with 
the investigators conclusion that this complaint was made in time. Therefore, for 
completeness, Ive first considered jurisdiction. And, as Ive explained below, I agree with 
what the investigators said about this.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can 
consider Mr As complaint.
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set 
out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the FCAs Handbook.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The section of the rules that applies to this complaint means that, unless L&C consents, 
we cant look into this complaint if its been brought:
more than six years after the event complained of;
or, if later, more than three years after Mr A was aware  or ought   reasonably 
to have become aware  he had cause for complaint:
ounless the complaint was brought within the time limits, and theres a 
written acknowledgement or some other record of it having been 
received; or
ounless, in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the 
time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr As representatives referred this complaint to L&C in July 2021, the complaint they 
raised was fairly technical and went into quite a lot of detail. There are various strands to 
Mr As complaint but, overall, the crux of the complaint is that L&C didnt carry out 
sufficient checks when it accepted Mr As business from TAP and that insufficient due 
diligence was undertaken on investments made within the SIPP.
The SIPP was in force by February 2011 and monies were transferred from Aviva to 
L&C on 10 February 2011 and invested in the SIPP shortly thereafter. All of which 
occurred more than six years before Mr A had referred his complaint to either L&C or 
us.
So, Ive also gone on to consider whether Mr A referred his complaint more than three 
years from the date on which he either was aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, he had cause for complaint. And when I say had cause for complaint, I mean 
cause to make this complaint about L&C, not just knowledge of cause to complain about anyone at all.
There are a number of points that I think are relevant to this discussion:
In order to be aware of cause for complaint the complainant should reasonably 
know theres a problem, that they have or may suffer loss, and that someone 
else is responsible for the problem - and who that someone is. So, to have 
knowledge of cause for complaint about L&C, Mr A needs to be aware, or 
should reasonably be aware, that theres a problem which has caused, or may 
cause, his loss and that L&Cs responsible.
Mr A transferred around £195,000 into his SIPP in February 2011.
In May 2011, just a few months after establishing the SIPP, Mr A received a 
statement that valued his SIPP at around £113,000. I think the level of losses 
suffered in a few months would have been disconcerting to most ordinary retail 
investors in Mr As position. And the information Mr A was sent would, in my 
view, have made them think that something had gone wrong, or might be going 
wrong, in relation to their pension. I think its unlikely this is what Mr A was 
expecting, or what he would have thought was reasonable for his investments.
I accept that the information sent to Mr A meant he was aware, or should 
reasonably have been aware, that there was a problem with his pension and 
that hed been caused some loss or damage.
But theres nothing Ive seen that was sent to Mr A more than three years 
before his complaint was referred to L&C that links L&C to the losses his 
pension monies had suffered. I think its worth highlighting that Mr A wasnt 
advised by L&C about setting up the SIPP or the suitability of investments. And 
I think the obvious first thought when losses were suffered would have been 
that his financial adviser might have given poor advice. I have seen no 
evidence that would indicate to a reasonable retail investor in Mr As position, 
that L&C had responsibility for the position Mr A was in  the position of having 
a SIPP with investments in it that were performing badly.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr A had been told by any third party, and more 
than three years prior to his representatives raising a complaint with L&C in 
July 2021 , that L&C may have done something wrong and might be wholly or 
partly responsible for the position he was in.
The regulator published reports on the results of two thematic reviews on SIPP 
operators in 2009 and 2012, issued guidance for SIPP operators in 2013 and 
wrote to the CEOs of SIPP operators in 2014. A common theme of those 
communications is that the regulator considered that SIPP operators had 
obligations in relation to their customers even where they dont give advice, 
and that many SIPP operators had a poor understanding of those obligations.
In the circumstances I dont consider that Mr A should have had an 
understanding of the obligations SIPP providers were under more than three 
years before Mr A referred his complaint to L&C.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence weve been provided, and, on balance, I 
think Mr As individual circumstances were such that a reasonable investor in his 
position wouldnt have concluded that L&C had done something wrong, more than three years before Mr As complaint was raised with L&C.
Like the investigator, I dont think that Mr A was aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) that he had cause for complaint against L&C more than three years 
before his complaint was referred to L&C.
So, Im satisfied this complaints been brought in time and that its one we can consider.
Merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take 
account of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes 
of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the relevant time.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether L&C took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr A fairly, in accordance with his 
best interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key 
issue in Mr As complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted
Mr As SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried 
out appropriate due diligence checks on TAP before deciding to accept Mr As SIPP 
application from it.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The 
Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles 
is
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment 
specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account 
in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even 
if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to 
fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level 
Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. 
They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument 
about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have 
undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP 
wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The 
ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore complied with its regulatory obligations 
and hadnt treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not 
merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA 
shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general 
application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. 
was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which 
Ive described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the 
relevant time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into 
account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, 
Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im 
therefore satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision 
of the High Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account 
of both these judgments when making this decision on Mr As case.
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his 
initial case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the 
Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the 
judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a 
relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken account of both judgments when 
making this decision on Mr As case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded 
that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he 
argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ 
Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best 
interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight 
had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new 
case.
In Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 
one has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in 
the context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their 
roles and functions in the transaction.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr As complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he 
wasnt asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to 
accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr As case, including L&Cs role in the 
transaction.
I think its also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Mr 
A on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application isnt 
the same thing as advising on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. So, 
to be clear, Ive proceeded on the understanding L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Mr A on the suitability of its SIPP or the investments Mr A made within 
his SIPP. But Im satisfied L&Cs obligations included deciding whether to accept 
introductions of business from particular businesses and/or whether to accept particular 
investments into its SIPP.
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations Im satisfied that, in order to meet 
the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the 
regulators rules and regulations, L&C should have carried out due diligence on TAP to 
the sort of standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory 
obligations at the time. And that L&C should also have carried out due diligence on any 
investments to be held within the SIPP which was consistent with good industry practice 
and its regulatory obligations at the time. L&C should have used the knowledge it gained 
from that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of business or a 
particular investment.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA)) issued a 
number of publications which reminded SIPP operators of their obligations and which 
set out how they might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as 
they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) 
states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and 
Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the 
individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six 
TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of 
financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for 
the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that 
are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances 
of poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against 
SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, 
with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take 
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs 
can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm 
to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give 
firms further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities 
that became a requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet 
Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under 
Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has 
any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such 
as solicitors and accountants, andusing non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, 
checking and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are 
appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business 
decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, 
and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its 
obligations in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could 
be met by:correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, 
Ive considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) 
arent formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, in my view 
the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal (i.e. statutory) 
guidance doesnt mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them 
into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in 
the BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter 
go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. 
And the judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman.
And I dont think the fact the publications, (other than the 2009 Thematic Review 
Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr As complaint, mean that 
the examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the 
relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the events subject 
to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the 
obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the 
Dear CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good practices into the conduct of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants 
understanding of how the good practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP 
operators changed over time, its clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
The judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review Report, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his 
consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. 
And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non- exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the SIPP 
and subsequent investments were suitable for Mr A. Its accepted L&C wasnt required 
to give advice to Mr A, and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter 
the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But theyre evidence of what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
Further, even if I considered that any publications or guidance that post-dated the events 
subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice that 
existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 
Report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and 
should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant 
time before accepting Mr As introduction from TAP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether L&C complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what L&C could have done 
to comply with its regulatory obligations.
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed 
by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that 
a particular introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As I explain further below, I think L&C ought to have identified that TAP was most 
likely carrying out regulated activities relating to arranging and advising on 
investments.TAPs regulatory status
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or 
carrying out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance, or of concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the 
administration and performance of such contracts, in particular in the event of 
a claim.
4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or 
carrying out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
reinsurance, or of concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the 
administration and performance of such contracts, in particular in the event of 
a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance 
Mediation Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection 
business from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and 
pensions policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be 
authorised by us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to 
persons, such as L&C, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at 
the time the application was made for Mr As SIPP confirms that a personal pension 
scheme, for the purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2):
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than 
an occupational pension scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is 
to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as 
insurers, unit trust managers or deposit takers (including free- standing 
voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 
82 of the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights 
under a personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
L&C itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension schemes 
 a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order.At the time of Mr As application, SUP App 3 of the regulators Handbook set out 
guidance on passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of 
permissible activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of 
the attendant Regulated Activities Order Article number:
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 
ActivitiesPart II RAO 
ActivitiesPart III RAO 
Investments
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53
and 64Articles 75, 89
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25,
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of 
a claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the Handbook at the time of Mr As application for the 
SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission 
under Part IV of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up 
permissions from the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its 
IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found in the Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at January 2011):
If a person established in the EEA:
(1) does not have an EEA right;
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP   
13A.3.4 G to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particula r regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek 
Part IV permission from the FSA to do so (see the FSA website "How do I get 
authorised": http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/how/index.shtml). This might 
arise if the activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or 
where the activity is included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not 
covered by the EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also qualifies
for authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 of the Act as a result of its 
other activities, the Part IV permission is referred to in the Handbook as a 
top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the regulators Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at 
January 2011) as:
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive.
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FSA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was 
readily available in 2011 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only 
carry out specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA 
passport rights.
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FSA permission for TAP to conduct them in the UK. L&C, acting in accordance 
with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the relevant rules, 
guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to ensure it 
could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept business from 
TAP, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore have known - or 
have checked and discovered - that a business based in the Czech Republic that was 
EEA- authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make 
arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions 
had to be granted by the UK regulator, then the FSA.
The activities undertaken by TAP
I think the available evidence indicates TAP was carrying out regulated activities. Rights 
under a personal pension scheme are a security and relevant investment. Under Article 
25(1) of the Regulated Activity Order (RAO), making arrangements for another person 
to buy and sell these types of investments is a regulated activity. And under Article 25(2) 
of the RAO, making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying and selling these types of investments is also a regulated activity.
In my view, TAP was carrying out regulated activities within Article 25 of the RAO  and 
this ought to have been clear to L&C at the time.
The regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed 
at arrangements that would have the direct effect that a particular 
transaction is concluded (that is, arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about Article 25(2):
The activity of making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments 
is concerned with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to 
facilitate the entering into of transactions by other parties. This activity has a 
potentially broad scope and typically applies in one of two scenarios. These are 
where a person provides arrangements of some kind:
1. to enable or assist investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such as 
the arrangements made by introducers); or
2. to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as 
multilateral trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing houses and 
service companies (for example, persons who provide communication facilities for the routing of orders or the negotiation of transactions)).
I think TAPs activities here amounted to the regulated activity of making arrangements 
for the SIPP under one or other or both of the Article 25 provisions.
But even if I thought that TAP wasnt acting beyond its permissions by making 
arrangements (which I dont), I think it was also undertaking another regulated activity for 
which it didnt have the requisite permissions. I say this because, I think TAP was 
advising on Mr As pension switch.
Under the RAO, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of the RAO (Part III 
Specified Investments) provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a 
specified investment. Article 82 investments arent covered by the IMD.
On an Open Pension Application form addressed to L&C and signed by Mr A on 25 January 
2011, TAP is identified as Mr As Investment Manager. At the point of the SIPP application, 
L&C submitted an application form to Royal London 360 dated 11 February to process the 
investment and confirmed that TAP would act as Financial Adviser, that investment 
instructions would be given by TAP and fees and commissions would be paid to TAP.   It 
seems to me that L&C clearly acknowledged and understood TAPs role in this regard. And, 
from his complaint to L&C, Im also satisfied that Mr A understood TAP to be acting as his 
financial adviser. 
So, I think L&Cs understanding at the time of the transaction thats the subject of 
this complaint was that TAP was giving advice on the switch to the SIPP, and the 
initial investment of monies post-transfer, and that it was permitted to do so. L&C 
should reasonably have understood the applicable regulations and, therefore, 
have readily identified that TAP was carrying out regulated activities without the 
requisite permissions from the regulator and that there was a clear risk of 
consumer detriment in accepting introductions in these circumstances. Because 
TAP, holding only IMD permissions, was advising on article 82 investments.
I think L&C should have been aware that TAP was giving advice on the switch to its 
SIPP, in addition to advising on investments. Its difficult to see otherwise how people 
were ending up in its SIPP. I havent seen any evidence to show L&C took steps to 
understand how the business was coming about in the alternative.
Im satisfied that TAP was appointed as Mr As financial adviser in respect of his SIPP 
as noted on the SIPP application form. And that it was providing him with advice in 
respect of this transaction.
Taking everything into account Im satisfied that TAP was advising on the pension switch 
and that L&C understood this to be the case, or would have understood this to be the 
case if it had undertaken sufficient due diligence into TAP.
All in all, I think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C, had it acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time, ought to have 
known TAP was carrying out regulated activities relating to arranging and advising in 
relation to personal pensions in the UK, for which it didnt have the requisite permissions. 
In turn, taking everything into account, it wasnt fair and reasonable for L&C to accept Mr 
As application in such circumstances.
Checks L&C undertook on TAPAs mentioned earlier, as part of our investigation L&C was asked a series of questions 
about the due diligence it undertook into TAP but weve not received a substantive 
response from L&C to those enquiries.
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied 
and take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
I think the regulatory publications Ive referenced earlier in this decision show that it was 
good practice to confirm both initially, and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that 
advise clients have the appropriate regulatory permissions. And I think thats applicable 
whether an advisory firm is UK based or else if its passporting into the UK.
On a previous case L&C provided us with a 26 November 2010 screenshot of a page 
from TAPs entry on the FSA register. But that page wasnt all that L&C should have 
checked, as that page wouldnt have been sufficient for L&C to be able to conclude that 
TAP had the required top-up permissions to advise on, or arrange, personal pensions 
in the UK. So, I think its fair to say L&C ought to have checked TAPs Permission page. 
Had it done so Im satisfied its most likely that it would have discovered that TAP didnt 
have the necessary top-up permissions.
In the unlikely eventuality that the register didnt make it clear whether TAP had the 
necessary top-up permissions, for  example, if the Permission page had erroneously 
been left blank, L&C ought to have taken further steps to independently verify what the 
correct position was  for example by contacting the FSA. And I think the FSA would 
have confirmed whether TAP held any top-up permissions.
Alternatively, if L&C was unable to independently verify TAPs permissions, I think its 
fair and reasonable to say that L&C should have then concluded that it was unsafe to 
proceed with accepting business from TAP in those circumstances. In my opinion, it 
wasnt reasonable, and it wasnt in-line with L&Cs regulatory obligations, for it to 
proceed with accepting business from TAP if the position wasnt clear.
Summary
So, to summarise, I think that TAP carried on activities for which it didnt have 
regulatory permission in the UK. I think it advised Mr A to switch to the SIPP from his 
existing pension plan and made arrangements for the switch to take place.
In the circumstances, I think L&C should have known what activities TAP was carrying 
out and that it didnt have the regulatory permissions to do so. Acting fairly and 
reasonably, I think that L&C should have rejected this business. I think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint on this basis alone. However, for completeness, Ive 
also gone on to consider what other conclusions L&C should have drawn if acting fairly 
and reasonably.
The nature of the introduction from TAP (anomalous features)
There were anomalous features in the business TAP introduced to L&C that ought to 
have given rise to concerns about the risk of significant consumer detriment.
The domicile of TAP:
Pension business from a UK client, advised by a Czech advisory firm despite no 
obvious connection with the country, going into a SIPP to invest through a wrapper 
based in the Isle of Man is anomalous in and of itself.The fact that TAP was domiciled outside the United Kingdom was a conspicuous and 
anomalous feature, in light of the business it referred to L&C. In my view that fact ought 
to have highlighted the need to make sure the EEA firm had the correct permission to 
conduct the business being proposed  i.e. a heightened check on the firms permissions 
(as above).
Adviser remuneration:
TAP received an initial payment of 6% of the monies Mr A invested with L&C. On top 
of this, TAP would also receive an annual investment adviser fee of 1% of the policy 
value.
I consider the level of remuneration paid to TAP in this case to have been an 
anomalous feature. While theres no absolute benchmark for reasonable adviser 
charging, its my view that a 6% initial, and 1% ongoing fee in these circumstances was 
higher than what Id consider to be reasonable. And, at the very least, I think that L&C 
ought to have flagged at the outset that the initial charges imposed on Mr As pension 
monies were potentially high.
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied L&C either knew, or ought to have known if it acted fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations that:
TAP was undertaking regulated activities beyond the scope of its permissions.
The domicile of TAP, as opposed to the consumer TAP introduced to L&C, was 
an anomalous feature.
The high level of remuneration TAP was taking was an anomalous feature.
And I dont think it was fair and reasonable for L&C to accept Mr As application in 
such circumstances.
In conclusion
L&C ought to have identified that TAP needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK and taken all the steps available to 
it to independently verify that TAP had the required permissions to give advice or make 
arrangements for personal pensions in the UK.
Had it done so, Im satisfied that L&C would have established TAP didnt have the 
permissions it required, or that it was unable to confirm whether TAP had the 
required permissions.
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations or good 
industry practice for L&C to proceed to accept business from TAP.
Additionally, L&C ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business Ive 
outlined above. These were further factors relevant to L&Cs acceptance of Mr As 
application which emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on 
TAP.
Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that L&C shouldnt have 
accepted Mr As application from TAP.Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about L&Cs regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
L&C failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered L&Cs obligations under 
the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. Its my view that had L&C complied with its obligations under the Principles 
to carry out sufficient due diligence checks on TAP, then this arrangement wouldnt have 
come about in the first place.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr 
As application?
Before considering this point, I think its important for me to reiterate that, it wasnt fair and 
reasonable, for L&C to have accepted Mr As application from TAP in the first place. So, in 
my opinion, Mr As SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to execute 
investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt have arisen at all.
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that in another complaint weve received involving the same introducer, that L&C 
made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment instructions. It 
effectively said that once the SIPP had been established, it was required to execute the 
specific instructions of its client. 
In my view the crux of the issue in this complaint is whether L&C should have accepted 
the SIPP application from TAP and established Mr As SIPP in the first place.
An argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R 
was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in 
which orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This 
is consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best 
execution. The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression 
when executing orders indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm 
comes to execute the order, and the way in which the firm must then conduct 
itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, 
albeit in a different context, in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 
(QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether 
a particular order should be executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission 
that COBS 11.2 is a section of the Handbook concerned with the method of 
execution of client orders, and is designed to achieve a high quality of execution. 
It presupposes that there is an order being executed, and refers to the factors 
that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute the order. It 
has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
And I dont think that L&Cs argument, raised in another complaint involving the same 
introducer on this point, is relevant to its obligations under the Principles to decide 
whether to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first place. Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr A  compensation in the circumstances?
Would the business have still gone ahead if L&C had refused the application?
Mr A went through a process with TAP that culminated in his completing paperwork to 
set up a new L&C SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from his existing pension 
plan would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and 
effort of doing this, I think its most likely that if the L&C SIPP wasnt then established, 
and if his pension monies werent then transferred to L&C, that Mr A would have wanted 
to find out why from TAP and L&C.
And I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that one or more of the parties involved 
would have explained to Mr A that his application hadnt been accepted as TAP didnt 
have the necessary permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as L&C 
wasnt satisfied that TAP had the necessary top-up permissions to provide the advice.  
And that Mr A wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided 
by TAP.
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the 
necessary permissions would have resulted in Mr A taking the same course of 
action. I think its reasonable to say that a business that had the necessary 
permissions would have given suitable advice.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with 
the transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative 
investment but nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of 
the cash incentive.
Unlike Mr Adams, Im satisfied that Mr A was not determined to move forward with the 
transaction with TAP in any event. In response to our investigator, Mr A said that if L&C had 
refused the investment he would have been put on notice that all was not as it seemed and 
looked elsewhere for a solution. Mr A also confirmed that he was not interested in changing 
pensions and preferred to stay with Aviva but Mr G had told him that Aviva would not 
facilitate a pension loan subject to a fee (to be paid to Mr G). Im satisfied that that was a key 
point in Mr As decision to transfer his monies into the SIPP. And, as Ive mentioned above, if 
it had been explained to Mr A that TAP didnt have the necessary permissions to provide him 
with pension advice, or alternatively that L&C wasnt satisfied that TAP had the necessary 
top-up permissions to provide advice, Im satisfied its most likely that Mr A wouldnt then 
have continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by TAP and/or Mr G. 
Mr A was seeking to avoid big risks and, unlike for example Mr Adams, he did not receive 
any incentive payment on the transfer of the pension fund. The receipt of a loan, which had 
to be and which Mr A has said was repaid, is different. Mr A has also said  that if L&C had 
refused the SIPP he would have looked elsewhere for a solution to his cash flow need. So, 
in my opinion, this case is very different from that of Mr Adams.
L&C might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr As application 
from TAP, had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C 
shouldnt compensate Mr A for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP 
operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead 
to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations 
and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr As application from TAP.
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr As application from TAP, that process would still have needed Mr A to be willing to 
continue to do business with TAP after L&C had rejected his application for another 
application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Mr A 
would have continued to accept or act on pensions advice from TAP in such 
circumstances.
Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused to accept Mr 
As application from TAP, the transaction wouldnt still have gone ahead.
The involvement of TAP
In this decision Im considering Mr As complaint about L&C. While it may be the case 
that TAP gave unsuitable advice to Mr A, L&C had its own distinct set of obligations 
when considering whether to accept Mr As application for a SIPP.
TAP had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. L&C wasnt required to ensure TAP complied with that responsibility. But 
L&C had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. And this included to 
check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory permissions to be 
doing so. In my view, L&Cs failed to comply with these obligations in this case.
Im satisfied that if L&C had carried out sufficient due diligence on TAP and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently 
checking TAPs permissions before accepting business from it, L&C wouldnt have 
done any SIPP business with TAP in the first place.
Im also satisfied that if Mr A had been told that TAP was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or alternatively that L&C wasnt satisfied that TAP had the 
necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, he wouldnt have continued to 
accept or act on advice from it. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of 
this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold L&C responsible for its failure to 
identify that TAP didnt have the required top-up permissions to be giving advice and 
making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money 
award, then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be 
fair compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R).
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case to hold L&C accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr A fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Mr A 
compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of L&Cs failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr A for 
his loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im 
satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Mr A to the 
full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings.
I accept that it may be the case that TAP is responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr As loss. However, its also the case that if L&C had complied with its own 
distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr A wouldnt 
have come about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered could have been avoided.
If it wishes, L&C can have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr A 
has against TAP in respect of the events this complaint concerns before compensation is 
paid. And the compensation can be made contingent upon Mr As acceptance of this 
term.
The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Mr A wouldnt have suffered the loss hes 
suffered. So, even if an assignment of action against TAP proves worthless, this wouldnt 
lead me to change my overall view on this point. And Im satisfied that its appropriate and 
fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Mr A to the full extent of the financial 
losses hes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by TAP. And, 
taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it 
would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that 
L&Cs liable to pay to Mr A.
Mr A taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Mr As actions mean he should 
bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings.
Mr A took advice from an authorised adviser (albeit one acting outside the permissions 
it held) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, L&C.
Im satisfied that if L&C had undertaken reasonable due diligence measures and 
drawn appropriate conclusions about the business TAP was undertaking (acting 
beyond its permission) that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr As business from 
TAP.
And I think that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say L&C 
should compensate Mr A for the losses hes suffered. But for L&Cs failings, Mr A 
wouldnt have switched to the L&C SIPP. And I dont think it would be fair to say in the 
circumstances that Mr A should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed those 
investments that Im considering here to be effected.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr A to the position hed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting his SIPP application.
Prior to transferring to L&C, Mr As monies were held in an Aviva pension plan, but for 
L&C accepting Mr As business from TAP I think Mr A would more likely than not have 
remained invested in that plan. 
Similarly, if Mr A had sought advice from a different adviser, who had the necessary 
permissions, I think its most likely the advice would have been to stay in his existing 
pension plan. I think its unlikely that another adviser, acting properly, would have 
advised Mr A to transfer into the L&C SIPP and invest in/through the Royal London 360 
wrapper.
So, if L&C hadnt accepted Mr As application, I think Mr A would have remained with his 
previous provider. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account.
What must L&C do?
We have sought clarification and the parties have each confirmed that the L&C SIPP is still 
in operation. 
To compensate Mr A fairly, L&C must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's SIPP with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider(s). If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is payable.
L&C should also add any interest set out below.
Pay a commercial value to buy any illiquid investments (or treat them as having 
a zero value).
If there is a loss, L&C should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If L&C is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr A 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay £300 to Mr A directly. In addition to the financial loss that Mr As 
experienced as a result of the problems with his pension, I think the losses 
suffered to the portion of Mr As pension provisions that this decision concerns 
has caused Mr A distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate him 
for this as well.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. L&C should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestMonies 
transferred 
into the 
L&C  SIPPL&C SIPP 
still in forceNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Here thats the 
current transfer value of Mr As L&C SIPP.
In some cases it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. This is complicated 
where an asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market).
I think it would be best if any illiquid assets that might be held could be removed from the 
SIPP. Mr A would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes. That would then allow him to 
stop paying the fees for the SIPP. The valuation of any illiquid investment(s) held may prove 
difficult, where there is no market for them. For calculating compensation, L&C should 
establish an amount its willing to accept for any illiquid investment(s) held as a commercial 
value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of any illiquid 
investment(s).
If L&C is able to purchase the illiquid investment(s) then the price paid to purchase the 
holding(s) will be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid into 
the SIPP to secure the holding(s)).
If L&C is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying any illiquid investment(s) in Mr As 
SIPP, it should give the holding(s) a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. 
In this instance L&C may ask Mr A to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding(s). That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr A may receive from the 
investment(s) and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. L&C will 
have to meet the cost of drawing up any such undertaking. 
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr A's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. L&C should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any contributions or withdrawals Mr A has made will need to be taken into account whether 
the notional value is established by the ceding provider or calculated as set out below. 
Any additional sums Mr A paid into the L&C SIPP from outset through until the end 
date should be added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when they 
were actually paid in.
Any withdrawals from the L&C SIPP from outset through until the end date should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point they were actually paid, so 
that they cease to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. To be clear this doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like TAP.
If theres a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
L&C totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, L&C will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr A's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the 
notional value in the calculation of compensation.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website 
by searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to 
their database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
SIPP fees
If any illiquid investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and because of this it cant be 
closed after compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr A to have to 
continue to pay annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. So, if the SIPP needs to be kept 
open only because of any illiquid investment(s) and is used only or substantially to hold that 
asset(s), then any future SIPP fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider 
the measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds.
The mix and diversification provided by using a benchmark of the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index for half the investment and the 
average rate for the fixed rate bonds for the other half of the investment would 
be a fair measure for comparison for what Mr As monies might have been 
worth if theyd not been transferred into the SIPP.
If it agrees to pay the full calculated redress then, if it wishes, L&C can have the option to 
take an assignment of any rights of action Mr A has against TAP in respect of the events this 
complaint concerns before compensation is paid. And the compensation can be made 
contingent upon Mr As acceptance of this term.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against London 
& Colonial Services Limited. And I require London & Colonial Services Limited to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and award: I require London & Colonial Services Limited to pay Mr A the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require London & 
Colonial Services Limited to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require London & 
Colonial Services Limited to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend 
that London & Colonial Services Limited pays Mr A the balance. I additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts my decision, the award is binding on London & Colonial Services Limited. 
My recommendation is not part of my determination or award. London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept 
my decision and go to Court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If London & Colonial Services Limited agrees to pay the full calculated redress, and elects 
to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first provide a draft of 
the assignment to Mr A for his consideration and agreement. Any expenses incurred for 
the drafting of the assignment should be met by London & Colonial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Michael Hoggan
Ombudsman