DRN-1455724
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Mars Capital Finance Limited (trading as Magellan Homeloans) no 
longer offers additional lending. Mr R wanted to move house and needed to borrow more 
money to do so. Magellan was unable to lend him any more money which meant Mr R had 
to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) to end the mortgage early. 
What happened
In April 2018 Mr R took out a mortgage with Magellan. The interest rate was fixed for the first 
two years, during which time Mr R would incur an ERC if he repaid the mortgage in full.
On 13 March 2019 Magellan decided to withdraw from the mortgage market with immediate 
effect. That meant any applications that hadnt yet received a legally binding mortgage offer 
were cancelled, and no new business was accepted. For any existing customers they could 
port their mortgage to a new property, but only if the amount they needed to borrow was the 
same or lower.
Unfortunately Mr R wanted to borrow extra money as he was moving to a more expensive 
property, which Magellan told him it couldnt do.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R didnt agree and so its been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I trust Mr R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. We 
look at complaints brought by consumers about financial businesses on a case by case 
basis. My role is to determine the merits of complaints by considering the specific 
circumstances of each complaint. 
This service provides a different function from the financial regulator, and we dont seek to 
regulate, fine or punish businesses. If Mr R thinks Magellan breached the rules by 
withdrawing from the mortgage market without warning then thats a matter he can take up 
with the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  if he wants to. I need to point 
out though that the FCA doesnt look at individual complaints so it wouldnt be a review of 
this complaint, it would simply be a matter of Mr R expressing broader concerns.I have sympathy with the predicament Mr R found himself in. Its unfortunate that just under 
a year after he took out his mortgage with Magellan it decided to withdraw from the 
mortgage market.
Magellans not an active lender, and isnt taking on new customers. It made a commercial 
decision to not offer new lending to new or existing customers. To that extent, its not treating 
Mr R any differently from any of its other customers.
Although Magellan is a closed lender (in that its not taking on new business) its still 
regulated by the FCA and has to follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules that 
says a lender has to lend more money to a consumer so they can move house.
Magellan isn't acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either. Mr Rs 
mortgage offer sets out that an ERC would be due if the mortgage was repaid in the first two 
years. Whilst it says the mortgage can be ported, it is clear that any further borrowing 
request may be turned down. Nothing in the mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say that 
Mr R would be entitled to borrow more money so he could buy a more expensive property.
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires Magellan to lend Mr R any more money. Nor is it under any other legal 
obligation to do so.
Mr R has said he thinks Magellan would have been aware it intended to withdraw from the 
mortgage market before he took out his mortgage. Im not sure why he thinks that as his 
mortgage started in April 2018 and Magellan stopped offering mortgages in March 2019; 
eleven months later. Ive no reason to believe Magellan had made that decision in April 2018 
and took eleven months to implement it, that just wouldnt make sense in terms of how the 
mortgage market works and the wider financial environment as it was.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr R is the one bringing the complaint against 
Magellan, to uphold the complaint Mr Rs version needs to be more likely than Magellans 
version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say Mr Rs version (in that he 
says Magellan was aware it was going to withdraw from the mortgage market before he took 
out his mortgage and withheld that information from him) is anything more than just as likely, 
which isnt enough for me to uphold his complaint.
Mr R has said he was charged product fees and then Magellan didnt provide the service for 
which the product fee was charged. But Mr R did receive what he paid for. Mr R paid a 
product fee for a two-year fixed rate mortgage secured on the house he lived in at the time. 
He received that, albeit he chose to come out of the contract early because he wanted to 
move to a new house and Magellan couldnt offer him the mortgage he needed for that. The 
product fee wasnt paid in 2018 to guarantee Mr R would be allowed to take an unspecified 
larger mortgage, secured against an unspecified property, at some potential point in the 
future.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Julia MeadowsOmbudsman