DRN-4384492
The complaint
Mr E complains about Aviva Insurance Limited increasing the premium on his home 
insurance when he renewed the policy.
What happened
Mr E has a buildings and contents insurance policy for his home, which is underwritten by 
Aviva. The policy was due for renewal on 1 June 2023. He was sent renewal documents in 
April quoting a premium of £413.95.
Mr E had made a claim on his policy. Aviva noted this on the policy and wrote to Mr E in May 
2023 saying this would need to be included at renewal. This increased the premium to 
£789.29, which was considerably higher than the premium of £413.95 which hed been told 
in April would be the cost if he renewed his policy.
When Mr E complained about the increase Aviva said: 
the higher premium was calculated correctly as it now included the flooding incident;
but the correct process hadnt been followed as a second renewal price shouldnt 
have been sent;
so it would honour the original price for this year, but would recalculate the premium 
next year.
Mr E remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this Service but our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld. She said Aviva had accepted not following the correct process and 
agreed to stick to the original price, so Mr E hadnt suffered any loss.
As Mr E remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers will decide what risks they want to cover and how much to charge for that. Its up to 
each insurer how much they increase their premiums by and its common for increases to 
vary from year to year. I dont have the power to tell Aviva how much it should charge Mr E 
for his policy  if I did that, I would in effect be telling a business how it should operate and 
thats not my role. But I can consider whether Aviva has treated its customers  in this case, 
Mr E  fairly. 
I appreciate it would have been a shock for Mr E to see the premium increase so much. But 
hes confirmed that part of his property has flooded previously. So Aviva was entitled to 
include this information when pricing his policy. And if this information had been included 
before the first renewal invite was issued it would have been reasonable to take it into 
account when calculating the premium.
However, Aviva has agreed it didnt follow the usual internal processes correctly and, as 
Mr E had already been given a renewal price, it wouldnt change this. So it reversed the 
increase in premium, taking it back to the initial offer. 
This means Mr E hasnt been impacted by what happened  hes still paying the same 
amount he would have been paying in the first place.
As Aviva acted on Mr Es concerns and amended the premium I think its done enough to 
resolve the complaint and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman