DRN-3025492
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have not processed two refunds
correctly.  
What happened
Mr J had a Halifax account which he switched to a third party bank. He had made two card
payments to a third party from his Halifax account, but due to the pandemic these were to be
refunded to Mr J. The payments were for £741 and £1.
Mr J expected the payments to go via Halifax to his new external bank account. But when he
didnt receive the payments, he tried to contact Halifax. Mr J says he was initially given the
wrong telephone number. Then the department he spoke to referred him to the switching
team for Halifax, who informed him that he needed to visit the branch to resolve this issue.
Mr J says that he visited the branch and they took his details and said they would give him a
call, but nobody got back to him. Mr J says he then tried to contact Halifax through a social
media platform, where the Halifax representative told Mr J that he had passed Mr Js details
onto the branch. Halifax asked Mr J to contact the third party which had issued his refunds.
Halifax thought the payments may have been returned to the third party as his funds werent
in Halifaxs holding account.
Mr J said the third party had confirmed that Halifax still had the refunds and gave Mr J two
tracking numbers to assist him get his money back. Mr J visited the branch again to try and
resolve the issue, but it couldnt be resolved in the branch. Mr J says he then received a call
from Halifax who told him the only way to resolve the problem was for Mr J to make a
complaint which Mr J did.
Halifax upheld Mr Js complaint. They awarded him £60 for inconvenience and £18 for his
call costs. Halifax said they attached a cheque to the letter, but Mr J said they hadnt. Mr J
received the same letter dated a day later with the cheque. Halifax paid Mr J £741 from one
of his refunds but there was a £1 refund outstanding. Mr J brought his complaint to our
service.
Our investigator said that he thought the compensation that Halifax had awarded Mr J was
fair, but Halifax should pay Mr J the outstanding £1 refund. Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to
review his complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax have admitted that they were at fault here, then all thats left for me to decide is
whether Halifaxs compensation reflected the impact their errors would have had on Mr J. Im
not persuaded that it did - and Ill explain why.
I can see from the information that Halifax sent me that Halifaxs onshore team had
attempted to complete the payment on 22 June 2020, but this was not processed due to a
system issue. So, Mr J waited around four months for the £741 which he was entitled to, to
be paid to him. This was through no fault of his own.
I say this as Halifax have said they had system problems. But these werent the only system
problems they had. Halifax have also said that their systems had not recognised that Mr J
had switched his account to another bank and thats why his funds werent sent
automatically across to his new bank account.
Halifax also told Mr J that they had sent his refunds to his new account, but they hadnt. And
while it may be only £1 which wasnt transferred, Im persuaded that the amount of the
transfer which didnt happen is not the main issue here, but it is the fact that Mr J had been
told incorrect information.
Mr J has been paid £18 by Halifax to cover his phone calls made. But Mr J has spent a lot of
time and effort with numerous Halifax representatives across different channels (phone,
social media, branch) to try and resolve this issue, often to no avail.
Mr Js final response letter states the £60 compensation is for inconvenience. But Im not
persuaded that this award reflects the true impact that Halifaxs errors had on Mr J. The
award does not appear to factor in any distress that Mr J has suffered by being told incorrect
information, by being told to contact the third party, to be told incorrect information, to be told
that a cheque was attached to the letter when it wasnt, to be told the payments had been
now refunded  when only one had been. And Im not persuaded the compensation paid
reflects that Mr J has waited a number of months to receive the refunds he shouldve
received if there were no system issues in June 2020, when Halifax originally tried to
complete the payment of his refunds.
Im persuaded for the reasons above that the offer Halifax should have made to Mr J to
reflect the impact of their errors should have been approximately £200. Im satisfied that this
would reflect the distress and inconvenience of multiple Halifax errors and Mr J being told
incorrect information. And the time hes had to wait to receive the refunds which belonged to
him, but he had to wait months to receive this money through no fault of his own.
As Halifax have already paid Mr J £60 for inconvenience then this amount should be
deducted from the £200, which I think would be a fairer reflection for the inconvenience and
distress hes suffered. Although Halifax have also paid Mr J £18, this was for phone calls
and should not be deducted from any compensation I award. Mr J has yet to receive his £1
refund, although I do note that Halifax have asked for Mr Js bank details to pay this. So I
think its fair that Halifax pay the £1 refund alongside any compensation I award.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision then my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. It follows that Ill now be telling Halifax what 
they need to do to put things right here. 
  
Putting things rightIn my provisional decision I said I intended to ask Halifax to pay Mr J a total of £141. £140 
for distress and inconvenience and £1 for the refund they owe him. Im still satisfied this is a 
fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr J a total of 
£141. £140 for distress and inconvenience and £1 for the refund they owe him. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman