DRN-4300300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has overcharged them interest on their 
offset mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out their offset interest-only mortgage with The Woolwich, which is a 
trading name of Barclays, in 2009. They borrowed just over £160,000 over a 25-year term, 
on a variable interest rate of 2.47% above Barclays base rate for the life of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S have made overpayments to the mortgage over the years, and by September 
2022 those overpayments amounted to just under £16,000. Mr and Mrs S say these 
overpayments should have been deducted from the mortgage balance as and when they 
were made, and Barclays hasnt done that.
They also kept between £75,000 and £85,000 in the offset savings account which was linked 
to the mortgage. In July 2020, they were able to increase that amount, so that their savings 
balance exceeded their mortgage balance. Mr and Mrs S expected that this would mean 
they wouldnt be charged any interest on the mortgage, and they say this is how they were 
told their offset mortgage would operate when they took it out.
Mr and Mrs S have, however, had to make some interest payments. They queried this with 
Barclays, but say they were never given a clear answer. They became increasingly 
concerned as the interest Barclays was charging on the mortgage was increasing, and in 
May 2022 they complained. 
Barclays confirmed that Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was 100% offset, and explained why this 
didnt always mean that no interest was payable every month. It also said that it had applied 
Mr and Mrs Ss overpayments to reduce the mortgage term, but it had instead now 
capitalised them so that the term isnt affected  but that the payments had in any case 
reduced the mortgage balance and interest payable. 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator 
didnt think they had been overcharged, so he didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. He found that differences in the number of calendar days in some months and 
interest rate changes meant that Mr and Mrs S had to make an interest payment in some 
months, even when their savings fully offset their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. They said they 
were never told that they would have to pay any interest if their mortgage was fully offset. 
Had they known, they would have carried on with a repayment mortgage instead, and they 
might have chosen to repay the mortgage and have no interest liability at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays calculates interest on a daily basis. However, it calculates the monthly mortgage 
payment on the basis of 30.4 days or 1/12 of a year. This means (unless the balance or 
interest rate change) the same payment is due each month, even though the number of days 
in calendar months varies. However, this also means that there is sometimes a mis-match 
between the interest earned on the balance in the offset account and the mortgage payment 
that is due, despite the customers savings being the same as or exceeding the mortgage 
balance.
This is set out in Barclays Offset Mortgages Guide, which says that where the mortgage is 
100% offset:
in theory it would mean you pay no interest on your mortgage and receive no interest on 
your savings. In reality there would be slight anomalies. The monthly mortgage payment 
is calculated as 1/12th of the annual interest plus any capital repayment due (i.e. each 
month is 30.4 days) whereas the Offset Benefit is based on the actual number of days in 
the calendar month. For example, the mortgage payment for March would be 30.4 days 
less the Offset Benefit earned during the 28 days of February and there would, therefore, 
be a small amount to pay.
This is why Mr and Mrs S have had to pay interest in some months but not others  and this 
has been particularly noticeable because of increases in the interest rate. Their mortgage is 
on a variable lifetime rate which tracks above Barclays base rate. In practical terms, 
Barclays base rate has been the same as Bank of England base rate, and so it has risen 
significantly since 2021. 
In all the circumstances, given the way Barclays offset mortgage works  and bearing in 
mind that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt an auditing service  I dont find that Mr 
and Mrs S have been overcharged. 
The Guide Ive referred to above is the 2018 edition, and its not clear whether Mr and Mrs S 
were provided with a similar document when they took out their offset mortgage in 2009. I 
note that the Mortgage Conditions for their mortgage do, however, say at condition 4.5 that 
each month will be calculated as a twelfth of the year for the purpose of payment of interest, 
although interest is calculated daily. This is in line with what the 2018 Guide says and in line 
with how Barclays has operated the mortgage.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S understood they wouldnt need to make any payments 
once their mortgage was fully offset  particularly given that they took out the mortgage 
without taking advice  but I dont think I can fairly conclude that this is because Barclays 
misled them. I also think it unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision 
about their mortgage arrangements had they known earlier how their mortgage would work 
in practice once it was fully offset. They wanted flexibility and to keep their savings available 
in case they needed them, rather than use them to repay the mortgage, but also to benefit 
from those savings, and the offset arrangement has enabled them to do that. If they feel this 
mortgage is no longer suitable for them, they can of course repay it or look elsewhere.  
Mr and Mrs S are also unhappy with how Barclays treated their mortgage overpayments. 
Barclays applied them to reduce the mortgage term, which is not what Mr and Mrs S wanted. 
It capitalised the overpayments instead following Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in 2022, so that 
they didnt affect the term. The transaction history for the mortgage shows when each 
payment was credited to the mortgage for the purpose of calculating interest  irrespective of 
how the payments were treated in terms of reducing the term or the balance  and I find 
nothing to indicate that Mr and Mrs S were overcharged as a result. The way Barclays treated the payments didnt mean they werent applied to the mortgage as and when they 
were received for interest calculation purposes; on the contrary, I find that they were. 
In all the circumstances, while I recognise that Mr and Mrs S are frustrated with how their 
mortgage has worked in practice, I dont find that theyre due a refund or that Barclays has 
treated them unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman