DRN-3045179
The complaint
Mr A complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited wont reimburse him the 
costs of his disbursements under his after the event (ATE) insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Acasta, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2017 Mr A was involved in a road traffic 
accident. He wished to bring a claim against the driver of the other vehicle involved and he 
took out an ATE policy with Acasta to cover him for adverse costs and disbursements. 
Mr A had a solicitor acting for him under a conditional fee agreement (CFA  No Win, No 
Fee). Court proceedings were issued against the third-party driver with Mr A being one of 
several claimants (the others being the occupants of his vehicle at the time of the collision).
Mr As claim was dismissed at court. But Mr A submitted a claim for the costs of the 
disbursements incurred in the legal action. Acasta declined the claim. Mr A disagreed and 
complained and when Acasta maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators didnt recommend that the claim should be upheld. Mr A 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for very similar 
reasons. Let me explain why. 
Id like to start by echoing our investigators concerns as to whether any loss has been 
suffered by Mr A here. Ive not seen a copy of the CFA between Mr A and his solicitor, so its 
unclear if he has paid or is being pursued by his solicitor for the costs of the disbursements.  
If Id determined the complaint should have been upheld, Id have needed further evidence 
of Mr A (as the complainant) suffering a loss before I could have made an award. But as Im 
not upholding this complaint, this doesnt make a difference.
Mr As policy says the insurer agrees to indemnify the insured in respect of the 
following liabilities arising within the period of insurance Opponents Costs 
Disbursements
But like all policies there are terms, conditions and exclusions to be considered. The policy 
goes on to say The policy excludes and the insurer shall not be liable for opponents costs 
or disbursements where:  
a) The legal action is abandoned, discontinued, settled or lost at trial as a result of the 
dishonesty, alleged or otherwise, of the insured; or
b) There is any failure of the insured to act in accordance with advice of the appointed 
solicitor or to co-operate with the appointed solicitor
The insured or the appointed solicitor has failed to disclose material facts
The insured or the appointed solicitor has made any dishonest, fraudulent, false, misleading 
or overstated representation or allegations of the same that the insurer conclude are 
justifiable
Beyond this there is a further term listed under Significant / Unusual Exclusions or 
Limitations which says There is no cover resulting from your failure to give full and truthful 
instructions to your solicitor
Terms like these are common to nearly all insurance policies of this type and I dont think the 
above exclusions are unfair. I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to expect an 
insured to act with honesty, integrity and to co-operate fully when making a claim. 
Counsels notes from the hearing recorded that The judge went on to find however, that 
whilst not fundamentally dishonest, the Claimants evidence as to their injuries was not 
cogent or credible and therefore the claims failed. 
It is also recorded that Mr A told a medical examiner (when being examined around six 
weeks after the accident) that he had no previous history of relevant musculoskeletal 
problems. However, it later transpired that Mr A had been to A&E for back pain following a 
separate road traffic accident less than six months before the accident central to this 
complaint. 
There were further inconsistencies in facts presented by Mr A. And whilst I note that some of 
those, such as the police report recording no injuries at the time, might be explained by an 
injury only subsequently becoming apparent. But it is very difficult to understand why Mr A 
would have failed to mention another accident that had occurred in recent months, and for 
which hed been to hospital for back pain, when asked about any previous musculoskeletal 
injuries. I think it would have been clear to him that both the medical examiner and his 
solicitor would need to know information like that which was clearly relevant to the legal 
action he was pursuing. 
And whilst I acknowledge that the judge didnt find that Mr A had acted dishonestly, I dont 
think Acasta are acting unfairly when declining the claim based on the above policy terms. I 
agree that Mr A failed to disclose material facts.
I appreciate that our investigator commented further on other reasons for the claim being 
declined including the prospects of success. But as Im satisfied Acastas decision is fair 
based on the terms Ive mentioned, I dont need to comment on the other reasons provided 
to fairly decide this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman