DRN-3578611
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his Basic bank account without 
notice and without telling him why. 
Background
In 2021, Mr M applied for a business bank account with HSBC. During the application 
process, HSBC noted that another financial institution had recorded a fraud marker against 
Mr M some two and a half years earlier. As a result of this, HSBC not only decided to decline 
Mr Ms application for a business account but also took the decision to close his Basic bank 
account without notice. 
Mr M complained to HSBC. HSBC looked at Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or had treated Mr M unfairly. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans review of his complaint.  
My provisional decision of 23 June 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 23 June 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold          
Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by saying that HSBC had stated that it was entitled to close Mr Ms account without 
notice as its terms and conditions permit it to do so. It referred to its terms and conditions 
which permitted it to close an account straight away where, amongst other things, it 
reasonably believed: 
 you are involved, in any criminal activity, it doesnt matter whether or not this is linked to 
banking with us.  
HSBC further explained that it could not be forced to bank with a customer where it didnt 
wish to do so, especially where it suspected criminal activity was taking place. And, in its 
view, the discovery of the fraud marker registered against Mr M met this criteria.
I thought about what HSBC said. But I thought that it has conflated two separate issues in an 
attempt to justify its position. I said this because I did accept that HSBC, or any other bank 
for that matter, is under no obligation to continue offering an account to a customer if it 
doesnt wish to do so. So I was satisfied that HSBC was perfectly entitled to take the 
decision that it no longer wanted Mr M as a customer. 
But I then explained that HSBCs own terms and conditions, as well as good industry 
practice, required HSBC to provide appropriate notice before closing an account. This is to 
allow a customer to make alternative arrangements with a different bank. And, what I was 
concerned about in this case wasnt HSBCs decision to close Mr Ms account but its failure 
to provide him with notice before doing so. 
I thought that HSBC appeared to be arguing that its discovery of the fraud marker meant that 
it was reasonably entitled to suspect that criminal activity is (sic) taking place. I used the 
word is as thats the word HSBC used and I thought it was important because this as well as 
the terms and conditions appeared to be concerned with criminal activity taking place at the 
time. I thought that the use of these words was to reflect the fact that a closure without notice 
was typically a proportionate response to an immediate risk.
However, in this case, the marker HSBC discovered was recorded over two and a half years 
previously. So leaving aside my concerns on whether the discovery of the marker, in itself, 
was enough for HSBC to have reasonably concluded Mr M had previously been involved in 
criminal activity, I couldnt see that how a marker recorded in March 2019, clearly 
demonstrated that Mr M was involved in criminal activity in October 2021. I said this while 
especially mindful that there was no suggestion that HSBC had any concerns about the way 
that Mr M had been operating his HSBC Basic account in the period that he had it either.  
So given the circumstances, I wasnt persuaded that it was reasonable for HSBC to believe 
that Mr M was involved in criminal activity in October 2021, or that HSBCs discovery that a 
fraud marker was registered against Mr M in March 2019, meant that he presented an 
immediate risk which necessitated his account being closed without notice. 
I accepted that the discovery of the fraud marker might have led HSBC to conclude it no 
longer wished to bank with Mr M. And that this was a commercial decision it was entitled to 
make. Furthermore, it was also my understanding that Mr M also had at least one other bank 
account elsewhere and this also provided HSBC with another valid reason to close Mr Ms 
Basic bank account. That said, I was satisfied that HSBC ought to have provided Mr M with 
notice in advance of taking this action in either of these scenarios. 
Mr M explained that HSBC closing his account immediately and without notice caused him 
distress. I could also see that he had to manually move all his direct debits at very short 
notice. I thought that all of this would have been avoided if HSBC had treated Mr M fairly and 
reasonably and provided him with reasonable notice before closing his account. 
As this was the case, I thought that HSBC needed to pay Mr M £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its actions in unfairly closing his account without notice caused.  
Overall and having considered everything, I set out that I was intending to issue a final 
decision which concluded that HSBC didnt have sufficient grounds to close Mr Ms account 
without notice. And so it was unfair for HSBC to close Mr Ms account in the way that it did. 
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC responded saying while it didnt agree with what I said, it was prepared to settle       
Mr Ms complaint in the way I set out in my provisional decision.
Mr M also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He said he wasnt happy as another 
of his accounts was now closed. Mr M also questioned why HSBC allowed him to use his 
account until October 2021 if it believed hed been involved in fraud in 2019.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. Mr M remains unhappy as another of his accounts, 
with a different bank, has been closed since his HSBC basic account was. But I dont think 
that Mr Ms other account was closed because of anything that HSBC did. 
To explain, HSBC closed Mr Ms basic account because it saw a fraud marker another 
financial institution had recorded against him in 2019. Im not in a position to say what this 
information was, or who logged it. But if Mr M goes to https://www.cifas.org.uk/contact-
us/subject-access-request he should be able to find out what information is held about him 
and how he can dispute it. 
Furthermore, it might help for me to explain that while another financial institution recorded a  
fraud marker against Mr M in 2019, HSBC only became aware of it when Mr M applied for a 
business account in 2021. This is why HSBC didnt do anything about Mr Ms account until 
then. Im satisfied that the discovery of thee fraud marker together with the fact that Mr M 
had another current account elsewhere meant that HSBC was reasonably entitled to close        
Mr Ms account, if thats the action it wished to take. But this would only be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, if HSBC provided the correct notice before doing so. 
As HSBC failed to provide Mr M with reasonable notice before closing his account that is 
why I said that it needed to pay £150 in compensation. So while I understand Mr Ms 
disappointment at HSBC no longer wishing to provide him with an account, as it doesnt 
have to have him as a customer if it doesnt want to, I wont be asking it to reopen his 
account.   
Overall and having considered the further points made in response to my provisional 
decision, Im still upholding Mr Ms complaint. So HSBC needs to pay Mr M £150 in 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 23 June 2022, Im 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to pay Mr M £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman