DRN-3879720
The complaint
Mr H complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined to 
cover damage to his cars engine following an accident, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was involved in a collision whilst his son was driving. This caused some damage 
to the passenger side panels. Mr H says the car was driven to his home after the accident. 
An engine warning light was illuminated, and he says a mechanical noised developed. He 
arranged for a breakdown service to inspect his car. It couldnt identify the problem and 
arranged to transport the car to a local garage. 
Mr H says the garage acknowledged a knocking sound and advised the engine needed to be 
stripped down to identify the problem. Mr H arranged for this to happen. The garage thought 
an internal part of the engine had failed, which had resulted in a metal object finding its way 
to the combustion chamber in one of the engines cylinders.
Watfords engineers attended the garage where Mr Hs car was being inspected before and 
after the engine was taken apart. It agreed with Mr Hs engineers findings that damage had 
been caused to a combustion chamber. It didnt think this was related to the accident.
Mr H didnt think this outcome was fair. He says it cant be confirmed absolutely that the 
damage resulted from the accident. But that it cant be disproved absolutely either. Mr H 
says the short period between identifying engine damage and the time of the accident 
supports the two are linked. 
Watford didnt change its position, so Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the dashcam footage of the accident 
supports Watfords view that this wasnt the cause of the engine damage. Having considered 
the engineer reports he thought Watford had treated Mr H fairly in reaching the decision it 
did.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. It has been 
passed to me to decide.               
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I understand this isnt the 
outcome hed hoped for. This must be a disappointment given the financial cost of the 
diagnostics and engine repairs. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair.  
As a result of the collision involving Mr Hs car, some body panel repairs were needed. This 
doesnt form part of my considerations here. My focus is around the engine damage and 
Watfords handling of this part of Mr Hs claim. 
Watford declined to provide cover for Mr Hs damaged engine. This was on the basis that the 
mechanical damage wasnt caused by the accident his son was involved in. Ive read Mr Hs 
policy terms to understand the cover in place. The terms exclude cover for, failures, 
breakdowns or breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment. So, if 
the damage cant be attributed to the accident, I think the terms are clear that cover isnt 
provided.
Watford says Mr Hs engineer didnt link the accident to the cause of the engine damage. 
And that this was also the view of its engineers who inspected the car pre and post the 
engine being taken apart. Ive read the reports provided by the engineers to understand why 
they concluded what they did. 
When Watfords engineers first visited Mr Hs garage it reported the following:
We confirm from our inspection there is internal damage to the engine which has been 
traced to the offside bank of cylinders in this V6 engine. The car will start and not run well 
along with a very loud clattering noise from within. There is oil and coolant in the engine with 
no evidence of any loss, and the oil pressure warning light goes out on start-up as it should. 
The repairer has attempted to diagnose the fault but without taking the engine out and 
stripping further, they cannot confirm what the fault is.
And:
We only have information at this stage that there was accident damage along the nearside 
of the car from front to rear wing and that the engine problem occurred soon after the 
incident occurred. At this stage we cannot relate the nearside damage to the engine fault but 
it is unusual for a fault of this kind to happen in normal use considering the age and mileage 
of the vehicle, which we are informed has a full service history.
Once the engine had been taken apart Watfords engineers reported the following:
It is evident there has been an ingress of an unknown object into number 1 cylinder which 
has caused damage to the piston, cylinder bore and the combustion chamber of the cylinder 
head. There is no evident damage or debris within the intercooler, the turbocharger unit or 
inlet manifold, only some swarf in the manifold from the damaged combustion chamber. The 
timing chains, tensioners etc appear to be ok, suggesting the engine timing has not altered 
to cause any damage. As mentioned previously there was no evidence of oil or coolant loss. 
The repairer is unable to determine and exact cause of the damage only that unknown 
debris has got inside the engine. There is nothing to suggest any of the damage to the 
engine was caused by the initial incident ie, impact to the nearside of the car. Nothing 
outside of the engine has shown to have been damaged and we suggest the damage is
coincidental unless proven otherwise.
So, from this, the engineers didnt think there was a causational link between the collision 
with the passenger side of Mr Hs car and the subsequent engine damage.
The report provided by Mr Hs engineer says:
I have inspected after the engine has been stripped. The damage to the internals on the 
engine is consistent with either a metallic object finding its way into the combustion chamber 
(or a damaged metallic part of the engine which may have broken off in the combustion 
chamber). These would cause damage to piston and cylinder head under compression. I 
found no such object internally when I removed the cylinder head. It could have escaped 
through the exhaust system at some point I can only conclude that the object that has 
entered the combustion chamber was an internal part of the engine that has failed.In response to this Watfords engineer says:
I have read the report from the [manufacturers] specialist who appears to agree with our 
own findings and states there was an internal part of the engine that had failed and no 
external factors appear to be a possible cause. I therefore am still of the opinion the engine 
damage bears no relation to the incident in question and the insurer should not be liable for 
any part of the engine claim.
I can see that Mr H raised several concerns with our investigator, following his decision not 
to uphold his complaint. This related to the impact and whether this contributed to the engine 
damage. In addition to Watfords concern that there was a lack of evidence of where the 
metal object that caused the damage originated from. Our investigator contacted Watford to 
ask for an engineer to respond to these points. The business provided a response. This 
says:
From our own inspection, we were not able to confirm which internal part of the engine had 
failed nor, according to the report from the [engineer at Mr Hs garage] were they. What has 
ultimately failed inside the engine causing the damage therefore hasn't been determined 
considering the relatively light glancing impact damage which the vehicle appears to have 
sustained in this incident, I would not expect this to have caused the failure of an internal 
part within the engine.  
And:
based on the relatively light extent of damage sustained and panel repairs which were 
required, it is likely that the energy transferred to the vehicle during the impact would have 
caused no more movement than that which would be experienced by the vehicle being 
driven on some of the Country's roads. It would be expected that the internals of the engine 
on this high performance vehicle would have been designed to withstand more energy being 
transferred through the chassis than that which would be expected from a relatively light 
glancing impact to the side of the vehicle, as the case in this incident.
In summary, an unknown internal component of the engine has failed causing damage to the 
engine but there is no evidence at all to suggest this was caused by the index incident.
Having considered the expert opinion, Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs view that it cant be 
proven or disproven that the collision resulted in the engine damage. Also, his view that this 
shouldnt be a case of it being either a full or no liability decision. But rather it is an issue of 
probability. Ive also considered Mr Hs car had only covered around 20,000 miles at the time 
of the engine failure and had been well maintained.  
Im not an expert motor engineer, so I must rely on the opinion of those who are. The experts 
agree as to how the damage likely occurred. Mr Hs engineer states an internal part of the 
engine has likely failed causing the damage, but he doesnt say this was the result of a 
collision. Similarly, Watsons engineers say the impact on the passenger side of Mr Hs car 
was relatively light and couldnt be the cause of internal damage to the engine. 
Ive seen the dashcam footage of the collision. I think this supports the view that the impact 
was relatively light. 
Clearly, its very unfortunate that engine damage has occurred given the relatively low 
mileage covered by Mr Hs car. But I dont think its reasonably been shown that the impact 
to the passenger side caused internal damage to the engine resulting in its failure. I think 
Watford behaved reasonably in arranging the involvement of engineers to inspect the engine, and report on the likely cause. But I dont think it has treated Mr H unfairly in 
declining this aspect of this claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything further.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman