DRN-3379765
The complaint
Mr C complains about Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Banks 
(M&S) handling of his loan account. 
What happened
Mr C held a loan with M&S and missed some payments. He had a payment holiday for three 
months from October 2020. Mr C says on 1 July 2021, he agreed with a M&S agent that he 
would make a full payment for the next three months and he would complete an income and 
expenditure form. Based on this, the account would be reworked to absorb the arrears. 
On 8 July, Mr C says he was told a seven-day hold would be put on his account while he 
tried to resolve an outstanding issue. He says he was told that during this hold, hed continue 
to receive letters and calls about the arrears. Mr C says M&S didnt tell him that if he didnt 
repay the arrears this would be recorded on his credit file. M&S subsequently sent a final 
demand on 12 July and went on to record a default on Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C was unhappy with the handling of his situation in relation to the arrears on the account. 
However, he says he wasnt aware a complaint about the handling of the loan had been 
logged until he received a final response letter on 17 August. In the final response, M&S said 
that while following a conversation with Mr C in April, the arrears increased which led to a 
notice of details being issued in June 2021. As Mr C hadnt cleared the arrears by 12 July, a 
final demand was issued, with the account defaulted in early August, which it said was 
correct.
Unhappy with M&S response Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He says to put 
things right, Mr C says the default should be removed and an agreement reached to repay 
the loan, along with some compensation for their handling of the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has outlined the challenging situation he had going on while he was trying to sort out 
his finances. He was significantly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. This was in addition 
to running a business and he had some challenges in his personal life, alongside some 
mental health challenges too. I acknowledge this has been a very difficult time for him. 
Ill turn first to the issue about the logging of the complaint. It seemed to me that M&S 
understood Mr Cs key concerns about its handling of his loan account. I can see why he 
would have preferred for it to reach out and clarify these, but I dont think hes been 
disadvantaged by it not doing so. 
I can see Mr C has a number of other concerns about the wider service he received from 
M&S. He mentioned hed asked for the direct debit to be reinstated and that he didnt have 
any records of M&S trying to contact him when it said it had on a number of occasions. It did 
take a few questions from Mr C before he was told why the direct debit couldnt be 
reinstated. This question could have been answered sooner. And while I acknowledge Mr C 
said he couldnt see any missed calls, I can from the records held M&S primarily used a 
work phone number for him. I think this accounts for why Mr C didnt see missed calls on his 
mobile phone. 
The central point of this dispute is whether M&S ought to have recorded the loan as being in 
default. Mr C was clear he was attempting to understand his financial situation with a priority 
creditor, and he needed assistance from an accountant to be able to do so. M&S were both 
aware and supportive of this. 
However, against this background, M&S said they were unable to agree a longer-term 
repayment plan until the situation with the priority creditor had been resolved. Both sides 
agreed with this situation and I consider it was reasonable.
Mr C was attempting to maintain his payments. However, by April 2021, his account was 
three months in arrears. It became clear that M&S needed to fully understand Mr Cs 
financial situation and requested an income and expenditure form be provided. This request 
was followed by a default notice and was issued when the account was several months in 
arrears.  Mr C duly completed the income and expenditure form, but this needed to be 
discussed in person as there had been a technical error when the form was received by 
M&S. 
Ive listened to the conversation between Mr C and M&S on 8 July. This call took place four 
days before the final demand was issued. The adviser and Mr C established that it seemed 
he would be able to continue manually making his payments until the situation with the 
priority creditor was clearer. The adviser was mindful that this could take a while and said 
they would place a hold on the account for the next seven days. The adviser then said this 
wouldnt prevent the account from receiving automated correspondence but was for Mr C to 
enquire about timescales with the creditor and let us know what you think. 
Mr C says it wasnt clear the adviser expected him to get back in touch within the seven-day 
hold. While this wasnt explicitly said, Im satisfied the purpose and intention behind the 
phrase above was for Mr C to provide an update on how long it might take for the priority 
creditor to confirm their repayment arrangement with Mr C. 
While I appreciate Mr C was trying to reach his accountant in order to finalise his payment 
arrangements with the priority creditor, I need to consider whether M&S were entitled to the 
default the loan. And in doing so Ive considered the guidance set out from the Information 
Commissioners Office which states that a loan should be recorded as being in default by the 
time it is six months in arrears. 
Its not in dispute Mr C was experiencing financial difficulty as a result of a number of 
circumstances outside of his control. However, this doesnt mean that M&S acted wrongly in 
recording the account as being in default.  
Having listened to the conversation on 8 July, I think the expectation was that Mr C needed 
to update M&S after the seven days and to continue to make his payments. And in any 
event, I think it is reasonable to say given the content of the final demand letter, issued four 
days after his last conversation, he could have called to clarify where things stood. I say this 
because the content of this letter was so different to any other letter hed received. It is clear 
to me from the content of the final demand M&S were expecting Mr C to make contact  he 
did not do so within the timeframe set and the loan was defaulted. In any event, Mr C hasnt demonstrated he could have paid off the loan to avoid the account 
being defaulted. The situation with Mr Cs priority creditor was still unresolved in July and 
August 2021, with no clear as to how long it might take for the discussions to reach a 
resolution. Given the loan was several months in arrears by this point, I consider M&S were 
entitled to default the loan when they did. It follows, Im not intending to require M&S to 
remove the default information recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman