DRN-2762226
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service she received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, 
referred to as the business, during instructions to surrender her investment. 
She is being assisted by her friend, Mrs P. 
What happened
In February 2007, Mrs A was advised to invest £25,000 into a bond.  
On 20 March 2020, Mrs As husband spoke to the business, with her permission, about 
encashing her investment  shed previously received a valuation statement dated 18 
February 2020. 
 
Mrs A says that she wanted to encash the investment and pay off the outstanding balance 
on her mortgage, and to pay off the balance on her and her husbands lease vehicle, using 
the proceeds. 
Mrs A says that she and her husband were told that she couldnt take the money out for six 
months, and no explanation was offered as why this was. Nevertheless, Mrs A says she was 
told the cash in value of her investment was £28,681 (as per the statement of February 
2020), and she was anxious to pay off the mortgage. 
On the same day, 20 March 2020, Mrs A says she complained to the business reiterating 
her intentions. After an initial acknowledgement letter, and subsequent holding letters, on 22 
May 2020, she received a call from the business. Having initially disagreed, the business 
accepted that she was given a valuation but shouldnt have been. 
Mrs A also says that she was told that lockdown restrictions/Covid-19 prevented the 
business from doing what she wanted, but shes adamant lockdown wasnt relevant at the 
time. Overall, Mrs A was unhappy with the conversation. 
The business subsequently offered to pay Mrs A £100 compensation, as a gesture of 
goodwill, for not being able to deal with her complaint in time. 
On 21 September 2020, Mrs A says that she received another call from the business, in 
which she was told that the fund value was £27,250 and that she could surrender her 
investment. 
Mrs A is unhappy that shes lost over £1,400 from when she first called the business and 
when she could surrender the bond. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business was, as part of its commercial decision-making process, entitled to 
defer the encashment/suspend activity on the bond. Its not for us to tell a financial 
business how to conduct itself.
In this instance, a decision was taken in March 2020, at the board of directors level, 
to introduce this move. 
The terms and conditions under Exceptional Circumstances state:
oNotwithstanding anything in the policy conditions, the company reserves the 
right, in circumstances it considers exceptional, to defer the cancellation of 
units in a fund. For unit-linked funds which hold assets, directly or indirectly, in 
the form of land or buildings, cancellation of units can only be deferred for a 
period which will not exceed six months..
oSo, the business was  in line with its terms and conditions  entitled to defer 
the encashment for a period of six months.  
oThe customers wouldve been provided with a copy of the terms and 
conditions so wouldve  or ought to have  been aware of this. 
Despite what Mrs A says, theres no evidence that she planned to pay off her 
mortgage and/or the lease car payment. Its difficult to say that the business should 
be responsible for hypothetical payments. 
Overall, hes unable to say that the business has behaved unreasonably by deferring 
any activity on the bond. 
Although the government hadnt introduced lockdown measures until 24 March 2020, 
this wouldnt have prevented the business from introducing its own measures at the 
stage it deemed appropriate.  
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, Mrs P, made the following key points:
Mrs A doesnt accept that the decision was made at the board of directors level. 
Despite asking the investigator to obtain minutes of the meeting the investigator has 
said that it was outside of his purview. 
Its unlikely that Mrs A wouldve sought to encash such a significant amount of funds 
and not have any plans. 
Proof of Mrs As outstanding payments have been provided which deal with the 
investigators comments on this point. As well as details about the trouble and upset 
Mrs A suffered as result of not being able to encash her bond when she wanted to.   
She appreciates the business need to act to protect investors and company funds. 
But Mrs A was advised that shed be able to encash her funds and then couldnt. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs P says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably by introducing a six-month deferral period to 
encashing the bond. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs As strength of feeling about this matter. Mrs Ps provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs A wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs P and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the business has 
behaved unreasonably by imposing a six-month deferral period on the encashment of the 
bond. 
Im satisfied that the business was, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, entitled to do this. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its commercial 
affairs, and therefore this isnt something we can get involved in.  
I understand that this decision was taken at the board of directors level in March 2020 and 
was in line with the business terms and conditions. I understand that the business 
temporarily imposed the (maximum) six-month deferral period in light of what it considered to 
be exceptional circumstances during the Covid-19 pandemic.  
Whilst I appreciate what Mrs P says, I agree with the investigator that the business was 
entitled to do what it thought was necessary, to protect itself, and its investors, during a 
global pandemic. Im aware that the decision by the business was made days before a 
government-imposed lockdown, but I dont think the timing was unreasonable.  
I appreciate that Mrs A was prevented from encashing the bond when she wanted to, and 
paying off some debts, despite being led to believe that she could (encash the bond) when 
she generally wanted to. But in this instance, I cant blame the business for legitimately 
imposing a temporary measure in what it considered to be exceptional circumstances.  
I appreciate what Mrs P says about the bond value in March 2020, compared to the value, 
six months later, in September 2020. But in my opinion, the bond value in September 2020 
wasnt something that the business couldve predicted or had control over. The value was 
subject to numerous factors outside of its control, including changing unit prices. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the bond value (given in February 2020) was ever guaranteed.   
   
So, whilst I dont doubt Mrs As reasons for wanting to encash her bond  even though they 
werent mentioned in her letter to the business dated 20 March 2020  I dont think the 
business has done anything wrong by deferring the encashment. So, in the circumstances 
the question of redress doesnt arise. 
In the circumstances, I think the £100 offered, as gesture of goodwill, for not responding to 
Mrs As complaint in a timely manner is broadly fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate Mrs A will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman