DRN-4334833
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tandem Personal Loans Limited wont refund to him the money that he 
paid for some holiday club membership points. His wife is also involved in his complaint and 
hes being represented by a legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
Mr R and his wife had purchased a total of 268,001 membership points in a holiday 
club between June 2007 and June 2014. They paid a total of £25,550 for those 
points. They entered into a purchase agreement with the holiday company in March 
2019 to purchase 32,000 more points. The purchase price of those points was 
£16,896.60 and Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a finance 
provider, that he electronically signed in March 2019, for a loan of that amount. He 
agreed to make 179 monthly repayments of £172.48 and a final payment of £173.23 
to the finance provider.
Mr Rs representative made claims, on behalf of Mr R, to the finance provider in June 
2020 under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It included draft 
particulars of Mr Rs complaint (which also included a complaint about irresponsible 
lending) and a witness statement from Mr R. The finance provider didnt provide a 
substantive response to those claims so a complaint was made to this service.
The finance provider then provided a response to Mr Rs claims in which it set out the 
reasons that it said that it was unable to uphold his complaint, including that: Mr R 
and his wife had been a member of the holiday club since 2007 and had used their 
membership every year, usually for three weeks; the holiday company had received 
no complaints from them; during the compliance process they received copies of all 
contractual documentation which they had read and signed, including a 
memorandum of understanding about a points for purchase scheme; the release of 
freehold properties had been postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic but the 
holiday company was prepared to put the purchase of those points on hold; and it 
described the responses that Mr R had given in response to a compliance monitoring 
call in March 2019.
Mr Rs representative provided additional submissions following the finance 
providers response to Mr Rs claims. It also provided what it said was the holiday 
companys training manual.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She 
wasnt persuaded that there was a misrepresentation at the time of sale and she said 
that she hadnt seen enough to suggest that the relationship between Mr R and the 
finance provider was unfair. She also said that she wasnt persuaded that a court 
would reach the conclusion that the relationship was unfair and that she hadnt seen 
anything persuasive to suggest that the lending was unaffordable for Mr R.
Mr Rs loan was transferred to [another finance provider] in August 2022. His 
representative has provided a detailed complaint submission in response to our 
investigators recommendations and has asked for this complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman. His representative has also provided a copy of a termination notice 
that Mr R has received from the holiday company following his failure to pay the 
management charges in which it says that it has now elected to enforce the 
foreclosure provisions in the contract and served termination notices. It says that the 
foreclosure clause and the steps taken by the holiday company to exercise the same 
gives rise to an unfair relationship and the foreclosure clause also falls foul of the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations.
I said in my provisional decision: I consider that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld for these 
reasons:
the particulars of complaint from Mr Rs representative and Mr Rs witness statement 
say that Mr R and his wife had purchased a total of 318,001 membership points 
between June 2007 and June 2014 at a total cost of £32,095  but the contractual 
documentation that has been provided evidences purchases of 268,001 points at a 
total cost of £25,550 during that period;
theres no contractual documentation to show that they bought 50,000 points at a 
cost of £6,545 in June 2010 as claimed in the particulars of complaint and Mr Rs 
witness statement  and the June 2014 purchase agreement says that their total 
number of points was 268,001;
Mr R and his wife entered into a purchase agreement in March 2019 to buy 32,000 
more points for a purchase price of £16,896.60 which increased their total number of 
points to 300,001 and they also signed the holiday companys memorandum of 
understanding which said that they had a total of 300,000 membership points;
the memorandum of understanding said: I/We understand that [3] years after the 
completion of this Purchase Agreement I/We may trade my/our [points] (fully or 
partially, at maximum of [300.000] points per property purchased) against any future 
properties that may become available for sale through [the holiday company] or it's 
partners  all [points] traded will be valued at [€100] per 1000 [points] against the 
purchase price of any properties available. The balance of the difference in the 
purchase price after [points] have been deducted will be payable by me/us  I/We 
understand that in the event that only part of our [points] are traded in against a 
property purchase, that l/we will remain liable for all the applicable annual fee's for 
the remaining points;
the holiday company waived its points fees for 2019 and 2020 and confirmed that 
Mr R and his wife would be able to surrender the points that they were buying at that 
time (partially or totally at no additional cost) from their fifth year of membership;
Mr R also paid £1,500, using a credit card, for seven nights accommodation;
Mr R says in his witness statement: [In] March 2019 we were invited to a meeting to 
discuss our membership but we were told that the purpose of the meeting was an 
opportunity for us to own a property as we were in a good position with the number of 
points that we had owned and the fact that we had secured an exit contract. The 
sales representative sympathised with our position, he explained that he had a 
unique opportunity for us. If we purchased a further 32,000 points, we could use the 
total of our points as a deposit towards acquiring a property. Basically, how he 
presented it was that we could buy an additional 32,000 and the entirety of our points 
previously purchased could be converted into property ownership after 3 years. All 
our points we had then purchased historically would effectively be turned into cash 
and used as the deposit on a freehold property. He explained the property would be sold by the Supplier or alternatively we would be able to rent out the property for 52 
weeks a year;
the finance provider said in its response to Mr Rs claims that the:  purchase 
financed by [the loan] was specifically a points for purchase contract; Mr R and 
his wife  purchased these points for the sole purpose [of] trading them against a 
future property purchase  to use for holidays and rental; but:  due to Covid 19, 
the release of freehold  properties has had to be put on hold;
the particulars of complaint say that the loan, the purchase agreement and the 
related agreements have resulted in there being an unfair relationship between Mr R 
and the finance provider and that there was an abject failure to warn [Mr R] that the 
option to transfer 300,000 points to an interest in property  was of no real benefit 
or created no enforceable benefit as against the [holiday company]. The defects with 
this arrangement were simply not disclosed;
section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to 
repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that 
theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor;
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Rs claim under sections 140A as only a court 
would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not the finance providers 
response to his claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances;
Mr R and his wife already had 268,001 points and Im not persuaded that its likely 
that they would have bought more points to use for their holidays unless they 
understood that theyd be able trade those points for an interest in a property;
nor am I persuaded that its likely that Mr R and his wife would have agreed to pay 
£16,896.60 for 32,000 more points unless they understood that theyd be able trade 
those points for an interest in a property;
the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
prohibit a holiday company from marketing or selling a proposed timeshare contract 
or long-term holiday product contract as an investment;
I consider that the points for purchase scheme would properly be considered to be 
an investment and that its more likely than not the points and the purchase 
agreement were sold to Mr R and his wife in March 2019 as an investment, in breach 
of the applicable regulations;
I also consider that Mr R and his wife have suffered a loss as a result of that breach 
because they paid a further £16,896.60 for the points that its more likely than not 
that they wouldnt have paid if the points hadnt been sold to them as an investment;
the holiday company said that the release of freehold properties had been postponed 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic and that it was prepared to put the purchase of the 
points that Mr R and his wife had bought in March 2019 on hold, but I dont consider 
that to be a fair and reasonable response to Mr Rs section 140A claim;
I consider that the breach of the regulations caused Mr Rs relationship with the 
finance provider to be unfair and I consider it to be more likely than not that a court 
would conclude that there was an unfair relationship between Mr R and the finance 
provider in these circumstances;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for [Tandem Personal Loans] to refund to 
Mr R all of the payments that hes made under the fixed sum loan agreement that he 
electronically signed in March 2019, with interest, to cancel the loan agreement at no 
further cost to him and to write-off any outstanding amount due from him under that 
agreement;the holiday company agreed to waive the points fees for 2019 and 2020 and its clear 
from the termination notice that has been sent to Mr R that he hasnt paid all of the 
management fees that are due from him  but I find that it would also be fair and 
reasonable for [Tandem Personal Loans] to refund to him the proportion of the 
management charges that he and his wife have paid, if any, which relate to the 
purchase of the points that they made in March 2019, with interest;
Ive not seen any evidence to show that the finance provider or [Tandem Personal 
Loans] has recorded any adverse information about the loan agreement on Mr Rs 
credit file  but if any such information has been recorded, I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for [Tandem Personal Loans] to ensure that that information is 
removed;
as I consider that there was an unfair relationship between Mr R and the finance 
provider, I havent considered any liability that [Tandem Personal Loans] may have to 
Mr R under section 75 or his claim that the finance provider lent to him irresponsibly; 
and
Mr Rs representative has provided a copy of the termination notice that was sent to 
Mr R but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
[Tandem Personal Loans] to take any further action in these circumstances as a 
result of that notice. 
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mr R has accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr Rs loan has now been transferred to Tandem Personal Loans and it says that this was 
the sixth contract which Mr R and his wife had entered into with the holiday company dating 
back to 2007 so its reasonable to assume that Mr R was familiar with the operation of the 
points scheme and the repeat purchases indicate he was happy with the arrangement. It has 
referred to what it says is an identical complaint which wasnt upheld by another ombudsman 
and says that Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld because: 
theres no evidence to support the claim that Mr R sought to enter the agreement for 
additional points because he wanted to use them to purchase a property;
the training manual provided by Mr Rs representative cant be relied upon; and 
the memorandum of understanding doesnt make any reference to the purchase of 
points being an investment as it details the opportunity to trade the points at a future 
date against any future properties that may become available for sale through the 
holiday company or its partners.
Mr Rs representative says that Mr R already had points and there was no need to buy more, 
hence the reliance placed on the investment element, and it has also referred to a decision 
on a similar complaint which was upheld by this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. Mr R and his wife had purchased a total of 268,001 membership points 
in the holiday club between June 2007 and June 2014 and they then entered into a purchase 
agreement in March 2019 to buy 32,000 more points which increased their total number of 
points to 300,001. Tandem Personal Loans says that its reasonable to assume that Mr R was familiar with the 
operation of the points scheme and the repeat purchases indicate he was happy with the 
arrangement but his familiarity with the operation of the points scheme and the repeat 
purchases dont show that the additional points werent sold to him as investment. 
It also says that theres no evidence to support the claim that Mr R sought to enter the 
agreement for additional points because he wanted to use them to purchase a property. But 
Mr R and his wife a signed the memorandum of understanding which said that they may 
trade their points against any future properties that may become available for sale through 
the holiday company or its partners and Mr R described in his witness statement the way 
that he says that the points were sold to him as an investment. The finance company also 
said in response to Mr Rs claims that Mr R and his wife purchased the points for the sole 
purpose of trading them against a future property purchase. 
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr R and his wife have ever used all of their 300,001 
membership points for holidays or other activities and I dont consider it to be likely that they 
would have been able to do so. 
Tandem Personal Loans has referred to what it says is an identical complaint which wasnt 
upheld by another ombudsman. The ombudsman in that decision didnt consider that the 
complainant bought the additional points to use them to purchase a property as the 
complainant sought to surrender his membership before the option to purchase a property 
could be invoked. But Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr R has tried to surrender his 
membership.
I consider that the points for purchase scheme would properly be considered to be an 
investment, that its more likely than not the points and the purchase agreement were sold to 
Mr R and his wife in March 2019 as an investment, in breach of the applicable regulations, 
and that that was the reason that they went ahead with the purchase of the additional points 
at that time. I also consider that the breach of the regulations caused Mr Rs relationship with 
the finance provider to be unfair and that its more likely than not that a court would conclude 
that there was an unfair relationship between Mr R and the finance provider in these 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tandem Personal 
Loans to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Tandem Personal Loans Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr R all of the payments that hes made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement that he electronically signed in March 2019.
2. Cancel the loan agreement at no cost to Mr R and write-off any outstanding amount 
due from him under that agreement.
3. Refund to Mr R the proportion of the management charges that he and his wife have 
paid, if any, which relate to the purchase of the points that they made in March 2019.
4. Remove any adverse information about the loan agreement that the finance provider 
or it has recorded on Mr Rs credit file.5. Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tandem Personal Loans to deduct tax from the interest 
payment to be made to Mr R and Tandem Personal Loans must give him a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman