DRN-3072074
The complaint
Mr W complained BISL Limited dealt with him unfairly when he sought a quote for motor 
insurance cover.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr W contacted this service as he was unhappy with a motor insurance quote 
hed been given. He was unhappy with the extra cost involved to add a feature that he 
wanted and felt he ought to be compensated.
Mr W used a price comparison website to obtain motor insurance quotes. He entered the 
information and features he wanted online and was provided with a number of quotes, one of 
the features he wanted was to protect his no claims discount. This took place on 5 June 
2021. Mr W reviewed the quotes provided and chose his preferred one. This was provided 
by BISL and set out an annual cost of £182.36.
Its agreed Mr W went on to contact BISL the next day by phone to accept the quote. Mr W 
was told hed need to pay an additional sum to protect his no claims discount, and he wasnt 
happy about this. M W was told the overall cost of cover with the additional feature he 
required would be £192.02 for the year.
Mr W thinks the protected no claims discount ought to have been included in the quote he 
received via the web-site and at no extra cost. He had several conversations with BISL and 
explained he thought the protection ought to be included as a standard feature. A separate 
issue relating to his initial call was addressed before the matter came to this service.
Mr W didnt go on to purchase the policy.
BISL have told us there are certain additional extras available on their motor insurance 
policies, which need to be agreed and are likely to involve an additional cost. One of these 
extra features is the protected no claims discount. 
BISL say that when Mr W called them, he explained the quote hed received was for a lower 
sum, £182.36. Mr W provided a screen shot to BISL to demonstrate this. They have 
provided a copy of this screen shot which contains the price and a list of the standard 
benefits included. There is no reference to a protected no claims discount on this list.
BISL say that if Mr W had chosen to accept the quote on the day via the price comparison 
website, he would then have been automatically asked about any required additional extras. 
BISL say this is a more individual cost and risk assessment approach adopted by each 
individual business. Here with the additional of the protected no claims discount, the overall 
cost would have been £192.02. So here it would have involved an additional cost of £9.66 if 
Mr W had gone on to accept the quote. BISL are confident the quote Mr W received made it 
sufficiently clear the protection wasnt included as extras werent included. They had 
received accurate information from the website. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair. He thought the protected no claims discount ought to have 
been included in his quote via the website and at no additional cost. BISL didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong.
An investigator at this service concluded BISL had given accurate information on this issue 
to Mr W when he called. It was a matter for BISL if they offered a protected no claims 
discount, and to let Mr W know what this would cost. It was for Mr W to then accept the 
quote or not. It wasnt something that was offered as a standard feature.
Mr W didnt think this was fair. Hes unhappy with the way the price comparison website 
worked and how information was transferred to BISL. Mr W accepts that additional extras to 
a policy can impact on a quote and price. However he still felt the website hadnt given BISL 
the right information or explained what was included in the quote accurately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything carefully Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I dont think BISL 
have done anything wrong here. I appreciate Mr W feels he would have liked to have known 
from the start what the overall quote for his insurance policy would be including all and any 
additional extras he wanted. But that doesnt mean BISL did anything wrong. 
The way the price comparison website worked and whatever information was shared and 
how this was done, is a business operating decision it seems to me. Mr W would never have 
been required to accept and be bound to a final quote for his cover, or required to pay, 
without knowing the cost involved and cover provided. And once he did have that 
information, he would have been free, as he was here, to accept or decline the offer.
Mr Ws dissatisfaction can be said to be more linked to the price comparison website. I 
appreciate he may not agree. But he thinks it was primarily the information and activities 
linked to obtaining the quote and the transfer of information to BISL that were flawed. This is 
all to do with the service provided by the website, although I appreciate his point that BISL 
are linked to this service. 
Mr W may not like the way his quote was provided here, and he may prefer a different 
approach, but that doesnt mean BISL did anything that can be considered unfair or wrong. 
BISL were required to consider whether they would offer the additional feature and let Mr W 
know what that would cost before he was asked to commit and accept the offer. This is what 
happened.
I dont think the initial quote provided to Mr W suggested a protected no claims discount 
feature had been included. This doesnt mean Mr W didnt indicate this was a feature he 
wanted. I accept he did and can appreciate why he was disappointed the initial quote didnt 
include this feature, even if the website had captured his preference for this feature and 
communicated this to BISL.
If Mr W had gone on to accept the initial quote on the day, he would have then been directed 
on to further information that ultimately would have provided him with the additional cost of 
the feature involved. Instead he obtained information about the additional cost the next day 
when he called BISL directly. It remained a matter for Mr W to choose whether to accept the 
cost of the cover at the price offered by BISL, and he chose not to.
At most it could be suggested Mr W suffered a loss of expectation, in relation to the lower 
quote, as he didnt go on to accept the quote. I dont accept this is a persuasive suggestion, 
particularly given the information supplied to Mr W at the time, or that it would be reasonable to suggest BISL ought to compensate for this. Mr Ws disappointment on being told the 
cover would cost an additional £9.66 a year, is not linked to any error on the part of BISL.
I dont think it unusual for protecting a no claims discount to be considered a non-standard 
extra, or for an additional cost to be involved. This involves a decision to be made about 
each individual applicant for cover. Any no claims bonus or discount on its own operates 
very much as an offer available between an insurer and a customer. Such a bonus provides 
a discount in the cost of insurance. A no claims discount on premiums, may reflect that the 
insurer has not paid out on any claims during a period, but this might not mean there havent 
been any incidents reported or that the cost of insurance wont rise. The existence of such a 
bonus doesnt mean there wont be a potential rise in premiums in any event. The protection 
of any such feature also involves a costs and risk assessment prior to cover being provided.
Overall there is no duty upon an insurer to provide a bonus or discount, or indeed any 
additional features, they remain a business decision for the insurer. The manner in which a 
business goes about the administrative process of providing a quote for a consumers 
consideration, putting aside the requirements for accuracy and being sufficiently clear in the 
final quote for example, remain very much with a business. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about BISL Limited. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman