DRN-3707952
The complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, treated her unfairly when she visited a 
branch to withdraw cash from her account. Its the second time shes complained about the 
member of staff in question.
What happened
Very briefly, in August 2021 while Mrs H was in-branch she felt she was discriminated 
against on the grounds of her age and ethnicity by a Halifax member of staff. Ill refer to the 
member of staff as L.
Mrs H pointed out it was the second complaint shed made about L, following an incident in 
2018. As compensation on that occasion, Halifax agreed to pay Mrs H £75. For the events of 
2021, Halifax apologised for not providing a better service and offered to pay her £30. It 
denied that it had discriminated against her but provided relevant feedback to L to prevent 
similar situations from recurring. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. She said that 
if Halifax didnt move L from the branch in question, shed look to move her money 
elsewhere.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and couldnt identify any instances to 
indicate the poor service received was due to discrimination. In all, they believed an 
additional £120, on top of the £30 Halifax had already offered, would adequately 
compensate Mr H for the distress caused.    
Halifax agreed to pay the additional £120 the investigator recommended, making a total of 
£150. Mrs H remained unhappy. She said, among other things, that the investigator hadnt 
taken various important factors into account in deciding the amount to be paid. For example, 
that this was the second incident involving L and that Halifax handled Mrs Hs subsequent 
complaint poorly. Mrs H felt between £400 and £500 was commensurate with the degree of 
hurt and upset shed suffered. 
The complaint was passed to me to review afresh and, on considering all the evidence, I 
issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. In summary, I didnt see 
enough evidence to indicate Mr Hs ethnicity or age had played a part in Halifaxs treatment 
of her. But I felt Halifax had nevertheless treated Mrs H poorly, both in-branch and during the 
complaint-handling process. As compensation for that, I asked Halifax to pay Mrs H £220 in 
addition to the £30 it had already offered, making a total payment of £250.
Although Halifax accepted my provisional decision, Mrs H didnt. She said that although 
Halifax denied discriminating against her, it had otherwise accepted (expressly or by 
implication) her account of the events. Mrs H said having an envelope thrown at her 
amounted to more than poor customer service, as Id described in my provisional decision, 
and was conduct calculated to offend, humiliate and demean.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about the issues that I consider go to the heart of the complaint 
and, in particular, Mrs Hs response to my provisional decision. Id like to thank her for 
conveying how the actions of Halifax made her feel. It certainly wasnt my intention to 
underplay the impact on her. 
As I said in my earlier decision, Im sorry to hear that Mrs H is upset by the treatment she 
received initially from L and then subsequently from Halifax. I saw no objective evidence of 
what happened on the day in question, but Mrs H says, among other things, L spoke to her 
rudely and at one point threw an envelope at her. On complaining, Mrs H felt the branch 
manager lacked interest. As I also said in that decision, Im not persuaded on balance that 
the evidence shows Halifaxs treatment of her was due to her ethnicity or age. So, my view 
on that aspect of Mrs Hs complaint remains unchanged.
Clearly, the parties dealings didnt go as they should have in branch that day. Halifax has 
accepted that it provided Mrs H with poor service and thats why it offered £30 as 
compensation. Mrs H doesnt see it that way and believes what Halifax has done went 
beyond poor service. She feels those actions were calculated to be offensive, demeaning 
and humiliating. I understand that Mrs H feels that way and I think Halifax hasnt grasped 
how its actions have made her feel. 
That said, I havent seen any evidence to show Ls actions, or those of Halifax subsequently, 
were calculated to have the impact on Mrs H that she says they did. Rather I think they 
handled the situation poorly and without being sensitive to Mrs Hs feelings. Ls behaviour, 
as described by Mrs H and to some extent accepted by Halifax, seems to me to have been 
motivated at least in part by their past dealings with Mrs H and was undoubtedly 
unprofessional. But I cant see that it was planned. 
Mrs H asks if speaking rudely to a customer and throwing an envelope at them is considered 
standard practice by a bank employee. It isnt, of course, and thats why I think a higher 
compensatory award than previously offered by Halifax, or recommended by the 
investigator, is warranted in this case.
Deciding on awards for distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues 
involved are subjective by their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult 
to determine. With that in mind, Im glad to see that Halifax dealt with the matter reasonably 
swiftly by apologising to Mrs H for the poor service received, in its letter of 1 September 
2021, and offering compensation. But one of the areas in which I believe Halifax fell short 
was failing to adequately engage with the concerns Mrs H had raised around being 
discriminated against. This was clearly important to her and I dont believe Halifaxs 
response was as clear as it could have been  which is why she queried this almost 
immediately. 
I see that Halifax issued a further response on 27 September 2021 as a result. This time, it 
was more explicit about not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about discrimination but upholding 
the aspect regarding the overall service it had provided. Im satisfied that the delay in 
clarifying matters compounded the situation and caused Mrs H distress and inconvenience 
in addition to that already experienced.
In the circumstances, I dont think Halifaxs offer of £30  or the investigators 
recommendation of a further £120  sufficiently compensates Mrs H for the service she received both in branch and after complaining about L (for a second time). But I remain of 
the view that an award in the region of £400 to £500, as suggested by Mrs H, isnt justified in 
the circumstances. 
Putting things right
While I recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling on the matter, I still believe that Halifax should 
pay £220 in addition to the £30 its already paid, making a total compensation figure of £250.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Mrs H £220 
as compensation in addition to the £30 its already paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman