DRN-3482396
The complaint
Mr K complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and their failure to accept 
and process his claim for a stolen mobile phone.
What happened
Mr K held an insurance policy underwritten by DGI with the purpose of covering his mobile 
phone. In September 2021, this mobile phone was stolen. So, after obtaining a crime 
number, Mr K contacted DGI to make a claim.
DGI provided Mr K with a theft form, which he completed and returned. But before DGI 
would process the claim and issue replacement vouchers to Mr K, they asked that Mr K 
block the IMEI number associated to the phone, as part of their internal process. Mr K was 
unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K didnt think this request was fair, as it wasnt stipulated as a requirement in the terms 
and conditions of the insurance policy he held. Mr K thought hed provided proof that the 
phone was no longer in use as directed by the phone manufacturer. And Mr K explained the 
SIM he used in the phone wasnt on a contract plan, so the network provider said they were 
unable to block the IMEI number for him. Because of this, he thought DGI should accept and 
process the claim, with no further information needing to be supplied.
DGI didnt agree. They explained it is their business process to request for an IMEI number 
to be blocked. And they didnt think this request was unfair, nor did they think it was 
unreasonable for them to halt the claim until this action was completed. Because of this, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the terms 
and conditions didnt state specifically that an IMEI number needed to be blocked as part of 
a claim. But they didnt think this was an unreasonable request. And they didnt think the 
evidence Mr K had provided both DGI and our service was enough to fairly show the phone 
had been blocked and could no longer be used. So, they didnt think they could say DGI had 
acted unfairly and because of this, they didnt think DGI needed to do anything further.
Mr K didnt agree. He reiterated his point about an IMEI number block not being included 
within the terms and conditions of the policy. And he explained the phone was used by his 
son, and this is why the screenshot didnt include his name but his sons instead. Mr K 
maintained his belief that the screenshot he sent should be enough evidence to pay out the 
claim. And even if DGI refused this, Mr K maintained his belief that he should only be 
expected to follow the requirements stipulated in the terms and conditions, which he felt he 
had. So, he wanted the claim to be upheld and the replacement vouchers issued. As Mr K 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I appreciate it wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr K when his phone was stolen. And I recognise he had the insurance 
policy in place to protect him financially if a situation such as that occurred. So, when Mr K 
attempted to make a claim on his insurance and he was asked to take steps he didnt think 
he was able to complete, or that were reasonable in the first place, I can understand why 
hed be left feeling frustrated. And I can understand why Mr K would feel as though DGI 
have failed to process his claim fairly.
But for me to say DGI should accept and process Mr Ks claim, Id need to be satisfied they 
have done something wrong. And to decide this, Ive thought about the requirements DGI set 
out in their terms and conditions, as well as their internal business processes, against the 
information Mr K has already provided them to conclude whether I think DGIs decision to 
pause the claim was fair. And I think it was in this situation.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And I dont dispute Mr Ks point of view 
that the need for the phones linked IMEI number to be blocked wasnt set out as a specific 
requirement of a theft claim. So, I can understand why Mr K believes the claim should be 
upheld without the need for the IMEI block.
But the terms and conditions do say that You may be asked to provide documentation such 
as: before going on to provide examples which didnt include the IMEI block. But from the 
wording of this term, I dont think it reads as the examples provided are the only 
documentation Mr K would be expected to provide. Instead, I think these were examples of 
what could be requested and that it was open for DGI to request additional documentation if 
needed.
And DGI have confirmed that as part of their internal business process, a theft claim will only 
be upheld and processed when an IMEI number has been blocked, to ensure the phone 
being claimed for is no longer able to be used. I dont think this is an unreasonable request 
as it protects DGI from paying out for a working phone and Id expect DGI to mitigate their 
risks where possible. So, even though DGIs terms and conditions dont state specifically 
that an IMEI number would need to be blocked, I dont think its an unreasonable request for 
DGI to make and so, I dont think theyve acted unfairly when refusing to accept and process 
Mr Ks claim until this is done.
But I also recognise Mr K doesnt think hes able to fulfil this requirement, due to him using 
the phone with a non-contract SIM provided by a different network provider to the phone 
manufacturer. And having looked into this matter, I do think it wouldve been more difficult for 
Mr K to arrange for the IMEI number to be blocked as he didnt purchase the phone with a 
provider on a contract. So, I can understand Mr Ks frustrations. But I dont think this means 
blocking the phone was impossible for Mr K, or that he shouldnt be expected to do this.
I can see there are websites Mr K can use to report his phone as stolen and request an IMEI 
block if the network provider was unable to do so. And I havent seen any evidence to show 
Mr K spoke to his network provider, or that they refused to block the IMEI. So, I dont think I 
can say Mr K had no way of fulfilling DGIs request, meaning it was unreasonable to expect 
him to do so.I also recognise Mr K believes he provided proof that the phone could no longer be used, 
after providing a screen shot on the manufacturers advice. But Ive considered this 
screenshot, and I dont think DGI have acted unfairly when not taking it as proof the phone 
could no longer be used.
This is because the screenshot shows an erasure was requested on a phone linked to 
someone elses name. And this phone was linked to a cloud storage system, again in 
another name to Mr Ks. So, I dont think DGI wouldve had any way of validating that this 
screenshot, and the phone showing a requested erasure, was linked to the phone Mr K was 
claiming for on his policy.
I appreciate Mr K says the phone was used by his son, and this explains the difference in 
name as it was his sons name and cloud storage system. But I dont think this information 
correlates with the information included in Mr Ks theft form, which states he was the one 
involved in the phone theft when he was on his way to work. The theft form contains no 
information about his son and so, I dont think DGI have acted unfairly when refusing to 
accept the screenshot as it has no information relating to Mr K himself.
And even if this wasnt the case, DGI have provided me with a recent search they conducted 
on the phones IMEI number, which still shows the phone as active. So, even if the 
screenshot was in Mr Ks name, I dont think this means DGI had a duty to accept this as 
proof the phone could no longer be used.
So, because of the above, I dont think Mr K has provided DGI with evidence that shows hes 
actioned their reasonable request regarding the block on the stolen phones IMEI number. 
Nor do I think hes provided evidence that gives DGI reasonable assurances that the phone 
is no longer able to be used. Because of this, I dont think I can say DGI have acted unfairly, 
or unreasonably, when not accepting and processing the claim and so, I dont think they 
need to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman