DRN-3881345
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money unfairly charged him for 
a transaction, asked him additional security checks and didnt fully respond or reply in time to 
his complaint.. He would like the fee refunded with 8% interest and £500 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
I have looked at Virgin Moneys terms and conditions which allow for a 5% charge for 
the transaction Mr A made as it was an international cash transfer. So, I dont think 
Virgin Money was wrong to apply this charge. On that basis, I cant reasonably ask 
Virgin Money to refund , with interest, the charge as Mr A would like.
From what I understand Mr A says he wasnt notified of the change in terms and 
conditions allowing this charge. Virgin Money has evidenced, from its system notes, 
that it emailed Mr A about this change. I am not sure why Mr A didnt get the email, 
but I am persuaded it was sent. 
I appreciate Mr A has told us he made other payments to the same organisation for 
purchases that Virgin Money didnt charge him for. The charge was made as it was 
described as a cash and , as such , attracted the cash transfer fee. I think its likely 
other transactions werent described as cash  which may explain why they didnt 
attract this fee. But I dont think the issue is with Virgin Money, it seems more likely to 
be how transactions were described by the provider of the goods.
I understand Mr A is also not happy at having to complete additional security checks 
when he contacted Virgin Money. He feels this breaches Information Commissioners 
Office Guidelines (ICO). I appreciate the checks may have caused some distress, but 
I am not aware the Mr A made Virgin Money aware there were reasons as to why he 
would find such questions stressful. However, I cant say Virgin Money were wrong to 
ask additional security questions if they felt the need to do so . These checks are to 
protect both the consumer and the business. I dont believe that if, as Mr  A says, 
checks were made during the call that this is an issue as long as no personal data 
was revealed prior to Mr A passing the security checks. Mr A can of course contact 
the ICO direct about this if he wishes to do so.
In terms of customer service Virgin money has apolgised the delay in responding to 
Mr As complaint , incorrectly sending out a letter saying his complaint has been 
resolved  and for the delay in getting a copy of the terms for his account. I 
understand it has paid Mr A  £175 as compensation. I think that is appropriate for any 
distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. I dont feel I have any grounds to 
increase this compensation to £500 as Mr A would like.
Finally, I understand Mr A feels Virgin Money breached Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) guidelines in not responding to his complaint within the guideline timescale of 
eight weeks. I understand he would like us to refer Virgin Money to the FCA for this . 
As our investigator has correctly advised its not in our remit to do this. We do expect 
businesses to respond to complaints in a timely manner and if a decision cant be 
reached within the eight weeks to keep in touch with consumers to advise them of 
this. I think Virgin Money has appropriately apologised and reflected its delay in 
dealing with Mr A s complaint in paying him compensation as stated above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman