DRN-3029182
complaint
Mrs and Mr M say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2004.  A 
TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically included PPI together with other features, 
such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP 
could be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
Only the PPI was complained about in this case, so thats what Im addressing here. One of 
our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and said they 
didnt think we should uphold it. 
They also said that even although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to 
the commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made an offer to Mrs 
and Mr M as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost in 
relation to the commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. However, 
Ive also considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission as mentioned above. 
Ive seen that Halifax has made an offer in respect this, and I too think the offer to refund 
some of the cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Although the mortgage in question was a joint one, it seems only Mrs M was protected by 
the PPI cover. I cant say why Mrs and Mr M decided to set up their policy in this way, but I 
note Mrs M also took out CIC, as did Mr M. Neither of them asked for the life protection 
element. 
To me, this suggests Mrs and Mr M had given some thought as to whether they needed 
certain types of protection with their mortgage borrowing. And as they chose some parts of 
the cover, and not others, I think they set the policy up in a way that reflected their 
preferences of that time.
Ive also given some thought to Mrs and Mr Ms allegations that they received no paperwork 
about the PPI and didnt know it was optional. But as I say, the opted not to include Mr M, 
which does imply they must have known there was a choice. Also, theres no dispute they 
were sold PPI, so I dont think the insurers would have failed to send out policy details to 
them. 
I accept theres not much documentation left to look at after so long. Nevertheless, Ive seen 
quite few very similar sales to this one, and my experience is that consumers were given a 
schedule showing which, if any, elements of the cover they had chosen and who was 
covered. I also see Mrs and Mr M kept the PPI for quite a few years and I think theyd have 
had to authorise the payments to leave their account. So, Im afraid this information and 
everything else I know about these sales, makes me think its much more likely that Mrs and 
Mr M consented to the PPI back in 2004.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr M as part of an advised sale, so 
needed to check that the PPI was suitable for their situation. I think it was.
I say this because Mrs M was eligible for the cover and whilst I agree she would have had 
some sickness protection through her job, this doesnt necessarily mean the policy wasnt of 
use. This was a mortgage secured against their home and it would have paid out up to £346 
per month for up to two years if successfully claimed on, much longer than Mrs Ms sick pay.  
This would have been in addition to any other means they already had. 
I therefore think the PPI they chose was suitable and recommending it to them wasnt 
unreasonable.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mrs and Mr M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. But the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the point of 
sale. Mrs and Mr Ms health at the time doesnt seem to conflict with any of the policy rules 
about pre-existing medical conditions, in my view. I think the rules probably contained certain 
conditions about claiming for the likes of stress and back problems. But I dont think these 
things applied to Mrs and Mr Ms situation of that time; in any event I dont think they would 
have expected to claim for these in the future without providing at least some evidence, 
which is what the rules required. So even if I accept Halifax could have explained the policy 
more fully, theres nothing suggesting this would have caused Mrs and Mr M to act 
differently.
Mrs and Mr Ms representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mrs and Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of their individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This 
means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs and Mr Ms representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on the complaint. In summary they said Mrs and Mr M should get back all the 
money they paid for the policy because Halifax failed to tell them about the high commission 
and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on 
cover. Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should 
find that Mrs and Mr M wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of 
commission. The representative says they should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mrs and Mr Ms PPI 
was less than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has 
worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs and 
Mr Ms case was less than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold 
mentioned in the rules about compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs and Mr M about the commission levels in this 
particular case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipand I dont therefore think Halifax treated Mrs and Mr M unfairly.  This means it doesnt need 
to pay Mrs and Mr M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mrs and Mr M some of the 
cost of the PPI to compensate Mrs and Mr M as if it had treated them unfairly. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this.
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr M. 
It should therefore now make arrangements to pay them, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman