DRN-4262208
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the delay in her car being repaired after she made a claim 
under her motor insurance policy with West Bay Insurance Plc.
Miss Al dealt with West Bays claim handling agent during the course of her claim, but Ive 
only referred mainly to West Bay in this decision for the sake of ease. 
What happened
Miss As car was damaged in an accident in the middle of January 2022 and she contacted 
her broker to make a claim under her policy. Her broker acted for West Bay and arranged for 
the car to be taken to a place of safe storage. There were then delays in getting the car to 
one of West Bays approved repairers. Miss A then kept calling West Bay to find out what 
was happening with regards to the repairs to her car. She was advised several times by 
West Bays claims handling agent that they were awaiting a decision from West Bay on 
these. In the end, Miss A complained to West Bay. They issued a final response to Miss A 
on 30 March 2023, in which they apologised for their poor communication and agreed to pay 
£75 in compensation. 
Miss A still wasnt happy and asked us to consider her complaint about West Bay. One of 
our investigators did this. She made it clear she was only considering the period up to West 
Bays final response letter of 30 March 2023 and that Miss A would need to make a further 
complaint about anything that had happened after this. She said Miss As complaint should 
be upheld and that West Bay should prioritise the repairs to her car. Also, she thought they 
should pay a further £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss A had 
experienced and cover what she paid to hire a car between 15 February and 30 March 2023. 
West Bay agreed to pay the additional compensation, but not the hire costs. They said Miss 
As policy made it clear that shed only get a courtesy car if their approved repairer had one 
available, so they dont consider theyre responsible for the fact Miss A was without a car.  
As West Bay didnt agree with the investigators view the case was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and require West Bay to do what our investigator 
suggested for the following reasons:
It took West Bay far too long to arrange the repair of Miss As car in the first instance. 
When West Bay realised there could be a delay due to the availability of parts, they 
should have provided Miss A with a hire car or looked at other options to settle her 
claim. This is because, they have a responsibility to handle claims fairly and I think 
Miss A had the right to expect her car to be repaired and back with her by the middle 
of February 2023. And if this wasnt possible she was entitled to expect West Bay to 
consider other options, including providing her with a hire car. 
In view of this I think it was reasonable of Miss A to hire a car from 15 February to 30 
March 2022. Around this time she bought a replacement car and the financial impact 
of this will need to be considered as part of any further complaint she makes. 
The amount she paid (£300) to hire the car was very reasonable and I am satisfied 
from the invoice she has provided that she paid this amount in cash. I say it was a 
reasonable amount, as it is similar to what Id have awarded for loss of use if Miss A 
had made do without a car. 
I agree West Bay should pay interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple to 
compensate Miss A for being without these funds.  
Clearly this whole episode caused Miss A a great deal of distress and inconvenience. 
And, while I agree £75 is enough compensation for the poor communication by West 
Bay, I think a further £200 is appropriate for general distress and inconvenience. 
Although, it is not part of what Ive decided, I should also say that, if it hasnt happened 
already, Id expect West Bay to make sure Miss As car is repaired and back with her as 
soon as possible. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint and make West 
Bay do the following:
Pay Miss A £300 to cover her hire charges, plus interest at 8% from 31 March 2023 
when she paid this amount to the date of actual payment. 
Pay Miss A a further £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc and order them to do what I have 
set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman