DRN-2941777
The complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their decision to approve seven separate 
loan applications which he feels was irresponsible and placed him in further debt.
What happened
Mr C took out seven loans with Barclays between 2007 and 2016. In 2019, Mr C says he 
read online articles which made him aware he had the ability to complain about credit that he 
thought was provided to him irresponsibly. And he thought the loans Barclays provided fell 
within this. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr C thought Barclays shouldve realised the loans werent affordable when looking at the 
way he managed his current and other credit accounts. He explained hed needed to use 
payday lenders on occasion, had direct debits returned and had frequently gone into his 
overdraft during the years Barclays had provided loans to him. And he thought Barclays 
should also have noticed he was needed to increase the size of his loan each time. So, he 
didnt think Barclays had lent to him responsibly and he wanted them to refund all interest 
and charges hed paid on the loans hed taken out since 2011, plus 8% statutory interest.
Barclays responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd lent to Mr C responsibly 
considering the loans were mainly used to consolidate Mr Cs other debts which a higher 
rate of interest. They thought the loans provided to Mr C were affordable and so, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy with this, so he referred his 
complaint back to us.
Barclays initially disputed our jurisdiction to look into all of Mr Cs loans due to the time that 
had elapsed since they were provided. But our investigator explained Mr Cs awareness of 
when he ought to have reasonably known to complain was in 2019, which falls within our 
three-year time limit. Barclays agreed with this explanation and consent for us to consider all 
of the loans Mr C received.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained due to the 
time that had elapsed, we were unable to obtain the application details of Mr Cs loans or 
obtain an accurate copy of Mr Cs credit file at the time. So, theyd focused on Mr Cs bank 
statements and the information they provided. And having done so, they thought all of Mr Cs 
loans were affordable considering the monthly payment to Mr Cs disposable income. So, 
they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree and provided detailed comments to our investigators initial view. Our 
investigator considered these and issued a second view answering these comments. And 
having done so, their position remained unchanged and they didnt think Barclays needed to 
do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise that during 
the time he took out loans with Barclays, he feels he was in a cycle of revolving debt which 
he was struggling to get out of. So, when he read he was able to complain about 
irresponsible lending, I can understand why hed complain to Barclays as they provided the 
loans he used to consolidate this debt on more than one occasion.
But for me to say Barclays have acted irresponsibly, Id need to see evidence that shows 
one of two things. Either, the checks they completed at the point of application werent 
proportionate to the loan they provided. Or, that they failed to assess the information 
available to them fairly and so deemed the loans to be affordable when they shouldnt have. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important to note how the length of 
time between the loans being provided and Mr C raising a complaint has impacted what Ive 
been able to consider. Due to the amount of time thats passed, Barclays no longer have the 
application information they used when they approved the loans. And although this may be 
frustrating for Mr C, I cant say this is unreasonable as Id only expect Barclays to keep this 
information for a certain amount of time. 
Im also unable to obtain a copy of the credit file Barclays wouldve seen at the time as credit 
files are updated and historic credit is removed. So, Ive been unable to determine for 
definite whether proportionate checks were completed. But Barclays have confirmed Mr Cs 
credit file wouldve been considered against the application information he provided online, 
including the reasoning for the loan, and this is the usual process Id expect Barclays to 
follow. So, without evidence to show otherwise, I dont think I can say they failed to complete 
proportionate checks for any of the loans.
So, Ive instead focused on the affordability of the loans which Im aware is Mr Cs main 
dispute. And to do this, Ive considered Mr Cs bank statements in the six months prior to 
each loan application as I think this gives an accurate description of the income Mr C was 
receiving as well as his fixed outgoings such as credit card payments and bills.
Although Mr C didnt complain about loan one, taken out in April 2007, I can see Barclays 
referred to this in their final response so Ive included it for completeness. 
Our investigator provided a detailed breakdown of each loan, its monthly payments and Mr 
Cs disposable income at the time. Ive reviewed the same statement information and Im 
satisfied this breakdown was accurate and correct. So, I dont intend to reiterate the same 
information. But I do want to make clear that I agree for each loan Mr C was provided, he 
was left with a reasonable amount of disposable after his existing financial commitments and 
the new monthly payment was considered. 
So, Ive focused on Mr Cs main disputes to this finding. Mr C thinks the way he managed his 
account, in particular his use of payday lenders and his overdraft, shouldve made it clear to 
Barclays that he was struggling to maintain his finances. 
And Ive seen that before Mr C took out his second loan in August 2011, £500 of this loan 
was used to clear a debt to a payday lender. So I dont doubt Mr C was needed to use 
payday lenders at this time. Ive looked at Mr Cs statements and he was using a payday lender for a loan each month for a significant period of time before the loan was provided. 
So, I understand the point Mr C is raising. But what I can see is the loan was intended to 
consolidate his debts into one monthly payment, which was significantly less than he was 
paying towards the monthly payday loans. And from this date, I cant see that Mr C need to 
return to using payday loans in a similar fashion. So, I think the loan Barclays provided 
improved Mr Cs financial situation, rather than worsen it. This is supported by the fact Mr C 
was able to clear this loan early. So, I dont think Mr Cs use of payday lenders means 
Barclays were wrong to provide him with a loan and so, I dont think this satisfies me they 
lent irresponsibly.
Its also not in dispute that Mr C entered his overdraft from time to time. And I would expect 
this to be considered by Barclays. But Ive looked at Mr Cs statements and I can see he was 
entering his overdraft due to non-essential spending and he was still maintaining his 
payments for bills and outstanding credit. And at the same time, he was transferring money 
to his savings. Although Mr C was utilising his overdraft, the minimum loan payments 
themselves were still affordable considering Mr Cs outstanding financial commitments each 
time a loan was provided. So, I dont think Mr Cs use of his overdraft alone wouldve been 
enough to suggest to Barclays the loans were unaffordable and shouldnt be provided. And 
again, Ive seen Mr C maintained his payments on all of the loans he was given and was 
able to clear some of these early. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Barclays 
have acted unfairly or lent irresponsibly. 
Mr C has also commented on returned direct debits that he feels again shouldve highlighted 
to Barclays the loans were unaffordable. And Ive seen there were a few returned direct 
debits in the six months prior to the second loan being provided. But this purpose of this loan 
was to consolidate Mr Cs debts in order to reduce his monthly expenditure on credit 
payments. So, I dont think a low number of returned direct debits shouldve automatically 
led Barclays to decline the loan application. As Ive already explained, Ive seen the approval 
of this loan broke the cycle of Mr Cs need for payday loans and allowed him to make a 
lower monthly payment. So again, I dont think there was anything to suggest to Barclays the 
loan wasnt affordable and shouldnt have been provided.
Ive also thought about Mr Cs comments on the amount of loans and the fact he needed to 
take out a new loan to clear a previous one. And I recognise Mr C did use some of his loans 
to clear the previous loan balance. But I can see on each occasion, a new loan was also 
used to clear other existing credit Mr C had, consolidating them into one payment with a 
lower interest rate. And this is a common way that consumers use loans to maintain and 
control their monthly payments to outstanding debt. So I dont think this in itself means 
Barclays acted unfairly. As Ive explained, I think Mr C was left with a reasonable amount of 
disposable income after each loans monthly payment was considered against Mr Cs other 
outstanding credit at the time. So, I think the decision to approve each loan was reasonable. 
And because of this, I dont think Barclays need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I recognise Mr Cs non-
essential spending habits may have led him to feel this wasnt the case at the time and I 
dont dispute Mr C may have felt as though he was struggling financially. But I dont think it 
would be fair for me to hold Barclays responsible for this. I think the majority of the loans 
Barclays provided helped Mr C consolidate his existing debts which were the main intentions 
of the loans and I think Mr C had the income to afford this. 
I also understand Mr Cs financial situation has changed more recently due to a reduction in 
his income. And I appreciate this decision wont alleviate Mr Cs concerns that will have 
arisen from that. But this decision focuses solely on the situation Mr C was in at the time 
each loan was approved and Im unable to consider Mr Cs current financial situation when 
deciding on the actions of Barclays some years ago.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman