DRN-3229070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA. In June 2020 they 
made a claim after finding plasterboard that had fallen from the roof of the garage onto their 
car.
RSA asked Mr F to get a cause of damage report. He arranged this and provided the report 
which showed the damage had been caused by cracks in the walls due to ground 
movement. 
Following this, RSA appointed a subsidence expert to validate the claim. They attended the 
property in August 2020 and concluded that the damage had been ongoing for some time as 
there were significant distortions to the structure. 
In January 2021 RSAs contractor attended the property again to carry our more invasive 
investigations. They carried out trial pits to examine the foundations of the garage and found 
that it was built on raft foundations, rather than piled like the main building. They concluded 
that the foundations were inadequate considering the ground the garage was built on and 
the proximity to a slope. And that the damage wouldnt have happened if the foundations 
had been built inline with those of the main building.
RSA subsequently declined Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It said the cause of the damage was the 
defective foundations and the policy specifically excludes damage due to faulty design.
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair. Mr F provided a copy of the pre-purchase survey he 
had completed which said there were no faults in the garage. And said as the garage was 
built before he purchased the property, he couldnt have been aware that the foundations 
were inadequate. He also wasnt happy with how long it had taken RSA to carry out these 
investigations as the damage had worsened during that time. Mr and Mrs F made a 
complaint.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint in relation to the decline of the claim. It said it was satisfied 
the damage wouldnt have happened if the garage had been built on adequate foundations. 
So the exclusion applied. However it offered £250 compensation for the delays it had caused 
in progressing the claim and reimbursed Mr F for the causation report which cost him £500. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with this and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said RSA had provided a 
copy of the building regulations that applied at the time the garage would have been built 
and it didnt meet the requirements laid out in the regulations. So she was satisfied that it 
hadnt been adequately built and RSA acted fairly by applying the exclusion. She also 
thought the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to prove an insured peril  thats 
something that is covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim 
or prove that a policy exclusion applies.
Here, Mr F provided a cause of damage report that showed the damage was caused by 
subsidence. However RSA has said that the exclusion for faulty design applies as the 
garage was built with inadequate foundations. I need to decide if it has applied this exclusion 
fairly. 
When applying an exclusion for faulty design and workmanship, wed expect a business to 
firstly show that the structure hasnt been built in line with applicable regulations at the time. 
And then show that if it had been, the damage would likely not have happened.
While the exact date of the construction of the garage isnt known, it was built after the main 
building in 1982 but before Mr and Mrs F purchased the property in 2007. RSA has provided 
a copy of building regulations that applied during this time. Which state as follows:
A1. (1) The building shall be so constructed that the combined dead, imposed and wind
loads are sustained and transmitted to the ground-
(a) Safely, and
(b) Without causing such deflection or deformation of any part of the building, or such
movement of the ground, as will impair the stability of any part of another building.
(2) In assessing whether a building complies with sub-paragraph (1) regard shall be had to
the imposed and wind loads to which it is likely to be subjected in the ordinary course of its
use for the purpose for which it is intended.
RSAs experts investigations showed that the garage is built on a raft foundation. This is a 
very shallow foundation that is made up of a concrete raft that sits on the top, or just under, 
the ground. 
In their report RSAs expert has concluded that due to the ground the garage is built on, and 
the proximity to a steeply sloped site, a raft foundation isnt suitable. They also showed that 
the main building was built on pile foundations, which have vertical piles installed deep into 
the ground for greater stability. 
Based on the opinion of RSAs subsidence experts, and the vast difference between the 
foundations of the main building and the garage, Im persuaded that the foundations of the 
garage arent adequate to ensure the weight of the structure is transferred to the ground 
without causing deformation. And therefore didnt meet the requirements at the time. 
RSAs expert also concluded that the damage wouldnt have happened if the foundations 
had been piled, in line with those of the main building. As the problems with subsidence 
appear only to relate to the garage, I think its reasonable to conclude that the much 
shallower foundations are the cause of the damage to the garage.
Mr and Mrs F have said that they bought the house with the garage already built. And their 
pre-purchase survey showed no problems with the structure. So they wouldnt have known that the foundations werent sufficient. While I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs F had no 
knowledge of the poor construction of the garage, this isnt enough for me to say that RSA 
has acted unreasonably here. 
Mr and Mrs F have provided this service with a copy of the survey as well as 
correspondence with their bank about its purpose. I note that the survey states: 
The garage is free from any significant defects. 
However pre-purchase surveys are usually carried out to confirm the value of the house and 
the general condition. And not as a detailed investigation of the structure of the building. 
Further the bank has confirmed that: 
The survey completed is to see if the property is suitable for secure lending. The Survey is 
not there to check the property for any defects or report on any issues. A separate surveyor 
would have needed to be instructed by yourself to check for any issues.
So while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Fs position, I dont think the pre-purchase survey is 
enough to say RSA has acted unfairly by applying the exclusion for faulty design in the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs F have also complained about the length of time it took for RSA to deal with their 
claim. Considering the level of investigation that was required, I dont consider the overall 
length of the claim to be much above what wed expect for a claim of this nature. However I 
agree there were times when RSA could have done more to progress the claim and update 
Mr and Mrs F. Its offered £250 compensation to make up for this and I think thats fair in the 
circumstances, so I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman