DRN-4345258
The complaint
Mr P complains about a motor finance agreement Rockar Limited arranged when he was 
buying a new car. Mr P believes that he has incurred higher credit costs as a result of 
commission being paid to Rockar Limited by the finance provider. 
Mr P is represented in his complaint by a third party. But for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions from Mr P and his representative as if being made by Mr P.
What happened
Around March 2021 Mr P was looking to acquire a new car. Rockar Limited was the car 
dealership and it also acted as a credit broker, arranging finance to fund the cost of the car. 
Mr P borrowed £58,320.13 to fund most of the cost of the car and this was through a 
company I shall refer to as B. The remaining £12,580 required for the purchase price was 
made up of a deposit from Mr P and £1,500 Finance Deposit Allowance. The interest rate on 
the finance agreement was 4.9% APR and the finance was to be repaid over 49 months. 
Mr P believes he has lost out and paid a higher rate of interest on the finance agreement 
with B because of B making a commission payment to Rockar Limited for arranging the 
finance agreement. 
When responding to Mr Ps complaint Rockar Limited explained that it received a flat 
commission payment of £750 for arranging Mr Ps finance agreement and this was 
connected to the manufacturer supported campaign where Mr P would receive a finance 
deposit payment of £1,500 when taking out the finance agreement. Rockar Limited set out 
that there was no discretion on its part in respect of the APR as this was a campaign offer. 
It said it had no say on the interest rate or the level of any commission as this was set by the 
campaign.  
Mr P referred his complaint to our service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator was also considering Mr Ps similar complaint against the 
lender and explained that information had also been received and considered from the 
lender, B. The investigator set out that from the evidence they had seen they were not 
persuaded Rockar Limited received a commission payment from B for arranging the finance 
agreement. 
The investigator explained that the payment Rockar Limited received from B was a 
Manufacturer Dealer Credit, which the manufacturer paid Rockar Limited for Mr P taking out 
the credit agreement. And that although B did make the payment to Rockar Limited, this was 
on behalf of the manufacturer when the credit agreement commenced. The manufacturer 
would reimburse B after the payment had been made to Rockar Limited and B effectively 
only acted as a facilitator of the payment. Mr P did not accept the investigators conclusions 
and the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld Mr Ps complaint. I have come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator, for what are broadly the same reasons. Mr P believes that 
he has lost out as a result of Rockar Limited receiving a commission from B for arranging the 
finance for the vehicle. Mr P believes he has paid more in interest and charges towards the 
credit agreement and this has been caused by the commission payment he believes B paid 
Rockar Limited. 
I have noted that in its discussions with Mr P after he made his complaint Rockar Limited 
has referred to receiving a £750 flat commission payment for arranging the finance 
agreement for the car. It also explained that the payment was linked to a campaign offer 
from the vehicle manufacturer and the 4.9% APR that applied to Mr Ps finance agreement 
was part of that campaign. Also, part of the campaign was a finance deposit of £1,500, 
which Mr P received towards the cost of the car because he took out the finance agreement 
with B. 
But B has indicated that it did not however pay a commission to Rockar Limited for arranging 
the finance agreement for the car. It has provided a screen shot of its system that refers to a 
zero amount next to the commission section. I accept that B did make a payment to Rockar 
Limited, but B has explained this was a Manufacturer Dealer Credit and B merely facilitated 
the payment on behalf of the manufacturer. B has explained the Manufacturer Dealer Credit 
is a payment made by the vehicle manufacturer to the credit broker where the consumer 
takes out a credit agreement for the car with B. This payment is made by B when the credit 
agreement starts and B would then invoice the vehicle manufacturer and be reimbursed by 
the vehicle manufacturer the following month.  
Having considered all that the parties have said and provided in this complaint, Im satisfied 
the payment made in this instance is not a commission payment made by B, the lender, to 
the broker for arranging the credit agreement. This appears to be an arrangement that the 
manufacturer has with B and the dealer network so the manufacturer can be sure the 
payment is only made when the finance agreement is actually taken out. The payment is 
also referred to as a Manufacturer Dealer Credit, which in my view supports the fact that this 
is a payment between the manufacturer and dealer, which is also the credit broker and is the 
role Rockar Limited had in this transaction. 
B has also provided a copy of its system records and this shows a zero figure next to the 
section marked commission. I have not been provided with anything else that demonstrates 
B made a commission payment to Rockar Limited, as Mr P alleges. And I do not therefore 
consider Mr P has lost out or paid a higher interest rate for the finance agreement as a result 
of a commission payment from B to Rockar Limited, as I dont consider the payment here is 
actually a commission payment from B to Rockar Limited. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Rockar Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman