DRN-2655057
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy with Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A.s (Mapfre) decision to decline his travel insurance claim. Mr U is also concerned about 
communication issues with Mapfre when he reported the claim. Mr U wants Mapfre to pay 
the claim in full and also compensation for trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr Us bag was stolen while he was travelling on a tram abroad. He believes a smaller bag, 
which was strapped to his main bag, was taken when he bumped into someone else. He 
reported this to Mapfre who sent him a claim form and checklist to complete on 2 December 
2019. On the checklist, there was a box asking for a written police report. It also explained, if 
for any reason it wasnt possible to get a police report, then Mapfre will need a report from a 
relevant authority and an explanation of why Mr U couldnt get a police report  Mr U ticked 
this box.
 
Mr U completed the claim form and sent it to Mapfre. This said that Mr U believes the theft 
occurred on Friday 29 November and he discovered it when he got to the airport. Mr U also 
noted he attempted to contact the police that same evening but there was no response. Mr U 
said he also attempted to contact Mapfre over the weekend but there was no response. Mr U 
then wrote a letter on 3 December and explained he tried to call over the weekend but there 
wasnt anyone from the claim team who could help. He said he did then manage to get 
through to someone on Monday 2 December. He said he asked for details of where he 
should report the theft but staff at Mapfre werent able to advise him so he hadnt attached a 
police report. Mr U explained that he only discovered the theft while rushing to catch his 
flight so he was unable to find a police officer to get details about how to report the theft. Mr 
U asked for help as he was no longer abroad. 
Mapfre declined Mr Us claim on the basis he didnt report the theft to the police within 24 
hours of discovering it and he hadnt provided a police report. Mr U complained about his 
claim being declined and about Mapfre not helping him when he phoned them to make a 
claim. Mapfre responded and said Mr U was transferred to their claims team and, when he 
asked where he should report the theft, the agent couldnt tell him. Mapfre said Mr U was 
then passed to a more senior member of staff and they told him they couldnt provide 
information on where he should report the theft. It was then suggested to Mr U that he 
contact the police in the UK who may be able to help with his query. 
Mapfre apologised for Mr U being unhappy about them being unable to provide him with 
information for him to report the theft. They said, providing the specific information for all 
their customers to register a theft for all destinations isnt something they provide. And, this 
is why they suggested Mr U contact the police in the UK to find out how he could go about 
reporting the theft to the overseas police force. Mapfre said it was a requirement for Mr U to 
provide a police report which he hadnt. So, they didnt uphold his complaint. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr U 
and Mapfre on 3 February 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Claim declined  
My starting point is Mr Us Travel Insurance booklet which sets out the terms and 
conditions. This shows that Mr U was covered for stolen items. So, the issue for me 
to consider is whether Mapfre have acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Us 
claim. The terms and conditions say, under special exclusions relating to personal 
belongings, Mapfre will not cover: Anything that you lost or was stolen which you did 
not report to the police within 24 hours of discovering it, and which you do not get a 
written police report for. Mr U didnt report the theft to the police within 24 hours so 
this does give Mapfre grounds to decline his claim. And their decision to do so is in 
line with the terms and conditions. However, to consider whether this was fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances, I have looked into Mr Us situation.  
Mr U has noted on the claim form that he discovered the theft at 7.00pm while 
rushing through the airport to catch his return flight. Ive looked at Mr Us flight details 
for his return trip and can see this was around the time his flight was due to depart. 
Mr U says that he tried to call the police at 8.00pm and again the following day. Ive 
looked at Mr Us telephone bill but this doesnt show any telephone calls to the 
overseas police until seven days after the theft. 
I do take into account Mr Us circumstances  he says he was rushing to catch his 
flight and was also told that he would need to leave the airport to get a police report. 
So, I do understand why this situation mightve led to Mr U not being able to 
complete a report that evening. This does though lead to my next point which relates 
to Mr Us return. I can see from Mr Us flight details that he was scheduled to return 
to the UK later that same night. This wouldve given Mr U an opportunity to make a 
report either later that night or the following day. I havent seen any evidence which 
shows that Mr U attempted further calls or tried to use other means of contact such 
as email following his return and within the 24 hours following discovery of the theft. 
So, taking this into account, I dont think Mapfre have acted unfairly in declining Mr 
Us claim. 
 
Communication 
 
Mr U says he found Mapfre to be unhelpful through the process of reporting his 
claim. He says their phone lines didnt direct him to anyone over the weekend 
between 30 November to 1 December. He also says they didnt give him any help 
when he asked them how to report the theft to an overseas police force. Mr U says 
the poor customer service from Mapfre is what led to the delay in him contacting the 
police.
 
I can see from Mr Us telephone bill, he first contacted Mapfre on 1 December. This 
appears to be a relatively short call so I believe this is the call Mr U refers to when he 
says he couldnt get through to speak to anyone. There is another call on 2 
December where the call duration is longer, and this appears to be the call where Mr 
U reported his claim to Mapfre. While I havent seen any evidence which suggests 
there were problems with Mapfres phone lines over this weekend, this doesnt 
change my view in relation to the claim. 
Firstly, the initial call which Mr U made to Mapfre over this weekend was 1 
December, which was already outside of the 24-hour period Mr U had to report the 
theft to the police. So, even if Mr U had got through to an agent at Mapfre, its 
unlikely this wouldve changed their decision to decline his claim. And, secondly, even if Mr U couldnt get through to Mapfre, this didnt prevent him from reporting the 
theft to the police when he arrived back in the UK. 
 
I understand Mr U is frustrated that Mapfre couldnt give him specific information 
about how to report the theft to an overseas police force. From the explanation given 
by Mapfre, I cant say they have acted unreasonably. I appreciate Mr U feels Mapfre 
couldve done more to help him but Mapfre did try to help him by suggesting he 
contact the police in the UK for further information on the steps to take. So, I cant 
say theres been an error on the part of Mapfre. In addition to this, I cant say this had 
an impact on the claim as, at the point this conversation took place, the 24-hour 
period to report to the police had already expired.
 
In summary, I dont think Mapfre have acted unfairly in declining Mr Us claim and I 
dont think theyve acted unreasonably when they spoke with Mr U about his claim. 
     
So, subject to any further comments from Mr U or Mapfre, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Mapfre havent replied with any further comments. Mr U 
has responded to say Mapfre explained to him that a crime reference number from the police 
in the UK would satisfy their process and allow them to pay his claim. Mr U says the UK 
police also explained to him the crime reference number would be sufficient to satisfy his 
insurer. Mr U also says the terms and conditions are unduly onerous in difficult 
circumstances. He says he made all effort to comply with the terms and conditions but 
wasnt able to without it having a significant impact on other things, such as the risk of 
missing his flight and not sleeping. Mr U feels these points are material to his complaint and 
should make the claim fully payable. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
I have taken Mr Us comments into account and note that we have asked Mapfre for 
recordings of the phone calls but not received these. However, for the purposes of deciding 
this complaint I dont think the content of the phone calls is relevant. Ill explain why. 
Mapfre have declined Mr Us claim on the basis he didnt report the theft to the police within 
24 hours. Even if, as Mr U says, he was told by a call handler at Mapfre that a crime 
reference number from the police in the UK would be sufficient, this doesnt change the fact 
that the report was made over 24 hours after Mr U discovered the theft. And, this 
requirement is in the terms and conditions. If a call handler at Mapfre had said to Mr U he 
could contact the UK police, the earliest this wouldve been is during the call on 2 December 
 by which point Mr U was already outside the 24-hour time limit. So, I cant say any 
information from the call handler led to Mr Us report to the police being delayed or was the 
reason he was unable to contact the police sooner. I also note Mr Us point about what the 
UK police have told him. Even if they do feel a crime reference number from them is 
sufficient to satisfy the insurer, this doesnt change what the terms and conditions say. 
I understand Mr U feels the terms and conditions are onerous and there were risks had he 
decided to continue trying to get a police report while abroad. I wish to reassure Mr U I have 
considered his specific circumstances, but I cant say Mapfre have acted unfairly. I have taken into account that Mr U was faced with a difficult situation here, and one which couldve 
led to him missing his flight. So, I understand why he decided not to continue with his 
attempts at that time. I have however already commented on why I think there was still an 
opportunity for Mr U to report the matter on his return. Its understandable consumers might 
not always be able to report such matters while waiting to board their flight. So, its only fair 
for insurers to apply a reasonable timeframe within which consumers need to report such 
events. Mapfre have done that and theres a 24-hour timeframe which I think is fair and 
reasonable. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. I dont 
require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to take 
any action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman