DRN-4446289
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy she held with The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited. She is unhappy that the policy maturity value was paid to her 
mortgage lender. In addition, shes dissatisfied with the general level of service she has 
received from Prudential, especially in relation to call times and disconnected calls not being 
returned.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs H moved home. Shes told us that she ported her mortgage to her new property. 
At that time, it appears that some of the mortgage remained on an interest-only basis with 
the endowment policy still being the repayment vehicle. However, despite this, the lender 
reassigned the endowment policy to Mrs H. It wrote to Prudential at the time, but Prudential 
attached the letter to the records for another endowment policy Mrs H had with it  this error 
was not identified until we asked Prudential questions as part of our investigation. As such, 
when the maturity date was approaching, Prudentials records still showed the policy as 
being assigned to the lender.
In May 2022 Prudential wrote to Mrs H, reminding her the endowment policy was due to 
mature on 7 November 2022. It told her its records showed the policy was assigned to a 
mortgage lender. It set out what needed to be done in the event the policy was no longer 
assigned to the lender.  
In September 2022 Prudential wrote to both Mrs H and her lender about the maturity of the 
policy. In the letter to Mrs H, it again confirmed its records showed the policy was assigned 
to her lender. It explained what needed to happen for the payment to be made directly to 
her. However, on 29 September and 17 October 2022 Mrs Hs lender confirmed it had an 
interest in her policy and so the maturity value should be paid to it. It provided account 
details to allow the payment to be made.
On 28 October 2022 Mrs Hs lender responded to a complaint she had made to it. It 
confirmed that when she changed mortgage in 2018 the endowment should have remained 
assigned to the lender. This was because she had told it she intended to use it as the 
repayment vehicle for the interest-only part of the new mortgage. However, it had reassigned 
it and wrote to Prudential accordingly. 
Mrs Hs policy was due to mature on 7 November 2022. The policy was encashed on 
2 November 2022 in order to clear into the lenders account by the maturity date. 
Confirmation of the payment was sent to the lender and Mrs H on the same day.
On 4 November 2022 Mrs H called Prudential. She was unfortunately given incorrect 
information in that she was not told the policy value had already been paid out.
Prudential responded to Mrs Hs complaint in a letter of 29 November 2022. It apologised for 
the waiting times Mrs H had experienced when trying to speak to it and for the fact that it 
hadnt called her back when calls were disconnected. It offered Mrs H £25 for the cost of the 
calls shed made. Prudential also confirmed that when Mrs H had called it on 
4 November 2022 she should have been told the payment had already been made to the 
lender. It offered Mrs H a further £75 for this error. As for the maturity value of the policy 
being paid to Mrs Hs lender, Prudential confirmed that it had written to the lender before the 
maturity. The lender had responded saying it had an interest in the policy and the maturity 
value should be sent to it. As such, Prudential didnt consider it had done anything wrong in 
this respect. Prudential also confirmed that it hadnt received a letter in 2018 from Mrs Hs 
lender releasing its interest in the policy.
Mrs H was not satisfied with Prudentials response and asked us to look into her complaint.
We asked Prudential to confirm the value of the policy on the maturity date, and it confirmed 
it would have been £21.05 higher. As such, our Investigator recommended Prudential pay 
this difference plus simple interest at 8% per annum. In relation to the poor service Mrs H 
had received, the Investigator considered Prudentials apology and the compensation it had 
paid was sufficient in the circumstances. In addition, she concluded that while Mrs H had 
been given different information by Prudential and her lender, she wasnt persuaded there 
was evidence that Prudential had done anything wrong when it paid the maturity proceeds to 
the lender.
Prudential was unhappy with the Investigators conclusions about the amount paid out, as 
those concerns had not been raised with it before we became involved. It objected to the 
outcome of the complaint as Mrs H had not raised the issue with it or us and it should have 
been dealt with as a new complaint. It also said it had followed its normal process when 
dealing with the maturity of the policy.
The Investigator reminded Prudential of our inquisitorial remit and explained why she had 
dealt with the matter of the incorrect amount having been paid out. She wasnt persuaded to 
change her conclusions. Prudential questioned whether Mrs H had saved mortgage interest 
by the funds being paid out early, and so it thought interest shouldnt be paid on the 
difference between the maturity value and the amount actually paid out.
Mrs H didnt agree with the Investigators conclusions that the compensation was enough in 
the circumstances. She said she was self-employed, and the time wasted on telephone calls 
to Prudential and trying to sort things cost her more than £75. She confirmed that was the 
hourly rate she charged and so the time she had wasted equated to around £2,700 of lost 
working hours. This should then be added to the immense stress having to make the calls 
caused her. Mrs H went on to say that a precedent had been set in 2016 when they had 
been allowed (with consent of the lender) to take money out of the policy and have it paid to 
them. Furthermore, Mrs H considered that if the payment had been made at the correct time, 
rather than early, she could have prevented the money being sent to the lender.
Our Investigator provided Mrs H with a copy of her lenders letter confirming the payment 
should be made to it. She also confirmed how we review compensation payments and that 
she remained satisfied the amount Prudential had offered was reasonable.
In relation to the mortgage interest, the Investigator confirmed to Prudential that as she had 
seen no evidence that Mrs H had saved any interest, she was not minded to change the 
redress she had recommended. 
It was decided that the complaint should be referred to an Ombudsman for consideration. In 
her final comments, Mrs H said that the whole crux of her complaints against both Prudential 
and her lender, was that they worked in isolation rather than together, and so it fell to her to 
be a middle person between them.Following our investigator reviewing the complaint, Mrs Hs lender provided its papers for the 
complaint against it. It was evidenced in these papers that the amount paid to the lender was 
more than Mrs H owed on the interest-only part of the mortgage, and the surplus had been 
passed on to her. The information from the lender resulted in us asking further questions of 
Prudential, at which time it identified that it had been informed of the reassignment in 2018, 
but it had not registered that instruction against the policy. In light of this, Prudential agreed 
to pay Mrs H the difference between the surrender value it had sent to the lender and what 
the maturity value would have been, plus interest for the loss of use of the funds.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Prudential has accepted that there was an administration error in 2018, which led to the 
situation in which Mrs H found herself. This error was then compounded by an error on the 
part of her lender. However, as both businesses have accepted those errors occurred, all I 
need to do in this case is to determine what Prudential needs to do in order to correct its own 
error. 
Had the mistakes not been made, Mrs Hs policy would have matured on 7 November 2022 
and the funds would have been paid directly to her. She would then have paid the amount 
she owed to her lender. Prudential has confirmed the amount that would have been payable 
on that date was £21.05 higher than the amount it surrendered the policy for a few days 
earlier. It has confirmed it will pay Mrs H this sum plus simple interest* at 8% p.a. to 
compensate her for the loss of use of this money. As this will place Mrs H in the correct 
financial position in relation to the maturity value, it is the appropriate offer. As is that relating 
to the cost of telephone calls it made in the final response, as those calls would not have 
needed to be made but for the original mistake.
Prudential also offered Mrs H £75 compensation for not keeping her properly informed in the 
telephone conversations it had with her and the time those calls took. Mrs H has suggested 
that she should be compensated based on the amount she bills per hour and the time she 
spent trying to sort out the problems. I can understand why Mrs H feels thinks this, but we 
dont determine awards in that way. I consider Prudentials offer was a reasonable sum in 
the circumstances as they were known at the time it was made. However, since that point, 
the 2018 error has come to light, which if it had not occurred at all, would have meant Mrs H 
would not have had any of the inconvenience she did with the maturity or suffered the upset 
she clearly did. In light of this, I consider that Prudential should increase the amount of 
compensation to a total of £300 (including the £75 already paid).
Prudential accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs H said that on the whole she accepted my provisional decision, but she wanted to 
emphasise that she didnt think Prudential had accepted how grave its mistake in losing the 
November 2018 letter from her lender had been. She commented that despite being told the 
lender had sent a letter, Prudential had not completed a search and in her eyes this was 
incompetence. As such, she doesnt consider the compensation payment of £300 reflected 
this, or the fact that the error would not have come to light had the complaint not been 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In addition, Mrs H said that had the maturity value been paid directly to her she might not 
have used it to repay the part of her mortgage the policy was the repayment vehicle for. 
Instead, she has said that she would have looked at the option of paying only 10% off the 
balance and investing the remainder of the maturity value. As such, Mrs H doesnt consider 
the additional £225 covered the losses she suffered in the past and those she will suffer 
going forward. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially confirm to Mrs H that the total of £300 compensation I considered Prudential 
should pay her is not to cover any financial losses she has or will suffer. It is a compensation 
payment for the upset and inconvenience she suffered. Having reconsidered this issue, I 
remain satisfied that this sum is appropriate in the circumstances.
As for financial losses, the redress already paid and additionally awarded above places 
Mrs H in the correct financial position and so covers the losses she has already suffered. 
She has now suggested that if she had received the maturity value herself, she might not 
have used the money to clear the part of her mortgage the policy was the repayment vehicle 
for. I accept that had the money been paid to her she would have had that option. However, 
she is not certain about whether she would have taken that option or not. 
In order to award redress for future losses, I would need to be satisfied those losses would 
definitely occur. That is not certain in this case, as Mrs H equally might have chosen to 
reduce her mortgage balance, especially given mortgage interest rates had increased 
significantly over the months immediately before the maturity date and were continuing to 
rise. So, while investing the maturity value may have made her money going forward, 
although that would not be guaranteed, it would also have cost her money because she 
would have to have continued to pay interest on the mortgage balance. It is impossible to 
know whether if she had received the maturity value Mrs H would have invested it rather 
than paying off part of her mortgage, and if she had, whether she would have benefitted 
financially from that decision. In light of this, I remain satisfied the redress awarded is what is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to pay Mrs H the difference in the fund values detailed above, plus interest*, and a 
further £225 compensation. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified from the 
maturity date to the date of settlement. If The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest due to Mrs H, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H 
documentation showing this to use for HM Revenue & Customs purposes if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman