DRN-3302949
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Miss M made to Gatehouse Bank Plc for a Home 
Purchase Plan to refinance the mortgage she already held on her home. Shes unhappy that 
Gatehouse insisted she provide evidence of the origin of her deposit when she bought the 
house. Miss M thought this was unnecessary and unduly delayed the transaction, which she 
eventually aborted
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss M and Gatehouse Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss M being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; what they are entitled to is for their 
application for lending to be assessed fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public. Also, generally 
speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on whether and how much it will lend or what checks it carries out, and I see no 
reason to depart from that position here. 
The crux of the complaint is because she had already verified the source of her deposit to 
the satisfaction of her existing lender in 2017, Miss M doesnt think Gatehouse was justified 
in seeking the same verification itself. I appreciate Miss Ms feeling on the matter, but 
Gatehouse has done nothing wrong here; it was perfectly entitled to make its own checks. 
Im satisfied it did so in a timely fashion once it had been furnished with the contact details 
for the solicitors that handled Miss Ms original purchase from 2017.
I realise Miss M think differently but Gatehouses handling of her application wasnt in any 
way unfair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman