DRN-2122342
The complaint
Mr S says, in the main, that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) did as follows:
Allowed him to open and conduct a Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading account 
in February 2019 which was both inappropriate and unsuitable for him; and failed to 
properly assess the appropriateness and suitability of the account for him. [issue 1]
Failed to uphold its contractual and regulatory obligations to educate him about CFD 
trading and to warn him about the risks inherent in CFD trading. [issue 2]
Exploited his ill-health related vulnerability and lack of awareness around the time he 
opened the account and thereafter by neglecting to react to red flags related to his 
account (including information that he was using funds from his Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and information about his significant losses of around £200,000) 
which indicated his trading was out of control and which ought to have prompted 
Plus500 to intervene to protect his interests as a retail client, to limit his losses and to 
stop his ability to trade. [issue 3]
He seeks recovery of his trading losses.
What happened
Mr S has presented a detailed background that features his very serious ill-health problems 
which he says pre-existed his account, partly or wholly, and worsened thereafter, especially 
because of his experiences in the account. He has also referred to financial problems arising 
from his trading losses. He made a firm request that confidentiality be maintained in relation 
to his disclosures. This decision will abide by that request and will not disclose the details of 
Mr S problems.
Plus500 disputes the complaint. It has expressed empathy for Mr S problems, but its 
position is that the complaint is misconceived for the following main reasons:
There is evidence that it properly conducted an appropriateness assessment in the 
course of Mr S application for the account; that assessment confirmed to him that 
the account was inappropriate for him; he expressly elected to proceed with the 
application despite this warning; having given the warning, it was permitted to grant 
his request to proceed, especially as there was no indication (in terms of red flags) of 
a reason not to (other than the assessed inappropriateness which he had already 
been warned about and he had chosen to disregard).
The account was based on an execution only service and it provided no advisory 
service within it, so it was not obliged to assess suitability for Mr S. Given this service 
basis, it was also not obliged to educate or train Mr S in CFD trading. However, it 
must be noted that its platform provided customers (including Mr S) with a wealth of 
free product and trading information, in addition to Demo accounts where customers 
new to trading can practice with virtual money (not their money) in a live trading 
environment.
There is evidence of many detailed risk warnings that were given to Mr S in the 
course of his application and in the course of the appropriateness assessment  
including within the warning about the accounts inappropriateness. Risk warnings 
were also detailed in the User Agreement (UA), Risk Disclosure Notice (RDN) and 
Key Information Document (KID)  all of which he confirmed he had read and 
understood in order to open the account. Furthermore, there are permanent risk 
warnings on every page of its website/platform.
Its service did not include any monitoring of Mr S financial resources, that was his 
responsibility (as stated in the terms for the account). It had no information about his 
problems until he submitted his complaint. It has shared with this service records of 
its contacts with him during the time of his account and there is nothing within them 
that refers to his problems. At the outset he stated that he intended to trade with 
capital between £100 and £5,000, which was the lowest threshold, so this did not 
give cause for concern. Subsequently he deposited more than this into the account. It 
looked into this in the context of its anti-money laundering responsibility and it was 
satisfied that he gave a plausible explanation for it, that the source of the funding was 
his registered bank account and that the funds were being used for trading (as 
opposed to being suspiciously withdrawn after being deposited). When it became 
aware of his problems, through his complaint, it closed the account.
Given the execution only service, it was Mr S sole responsibility to manage and 
monitor his account and the trading within it. Plus500 held no responsibility (and no 
share of his responsibility) in this respect. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and he broadly agreed with Plus500s 
position. On this basis, he concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. He was 
satisfied with evidence that Plus500 had met its regulatory duties in terms of assessing 
appropriateness of Mr S account and in terms of acting in his best interests.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome. He maintained his key allegations. He also asserted, in 
the main, that Plus500 should have been obliged to enquire into his state of health (which it 
did not do, hence the absence of his disclosure of this at the time), that it is now aware of his 
ill-health and financial problems and can correct its errors retroactively by refunding his 
losses and that, in the alternative, the same applies to this service and we too can resolve 
Plus500s errors retroactively by ordering a refund of his losses.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I begin with an unreserved recognition of the serious ill-health and financial problems Mr S 
has described. I note that both Plus500 and the investigator expressed empathy with him in 
this respect and I join them in doing the same. 
Having said the above, I must state that Mr S complaint will be considered on its merits  
that is, on the basis of available relevant evidence of the facts, of the contract that defined 
his relationship with Plus500 and of relevant regulations/rules/laws. 
If and where relevant, he will be entitled to due consideration of his ill-health and financial 
problems and he will not be denied that. However, if and where irrelevant, those problems 
will not be given weight because, despite their gravity, it will not be fair or reasonable  to 
both parties  to allow them to unduly influence treatment of the complaint.
Issue 1Appropriateness is assessed upon information from a client to a firm about whether the client 
has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service or 
product offered by the firm. A firm is not required to notify its client if the assessment 
concludes that its service or product is appropriate. However, it is obliged by regulation to 
warn its client if the assessment concludes that its service or product is not appropriate. Its 
warning can be in a standardised format. If, despite such a warning, the client wishes and 
decides to proceed with the service or product the firm has discretion to permit that  
having regard to the circumstances.
I am satisfied with documentary evidence  which has been shared with us and which I 
consider to be reliable  that an appropriateness assessment was carried out in Mr S 
application for the account. The same applies to evidence that the assessment concluded 
that the account was inappropriate for him  and that he was expressly told this but chose to 
go against the warning by proceeding with the application. In this respect, Plus500 met the 
regulatory requirement summarised above. This also addresses the argument that it had a 
duty to intervene to safeguard his interests. It did that at the outset, by virtue of the warning. 
Mr S could say that, despite his decision to go against the inappropriateness warning, it was 
irresponsible for Plus500 to grant him the account. I disagree. As stated above, it had 
discretion to do so and what I have summarised above is from relevant regulations (the rules 
at COBS 10A, and guidance on warnings at COBS 10A.3.3 G, of the regulators Handbook). 
In doing so, it should have given regard to the circumstances of the application. I consider 
that it did this and I accept its explanation in this respect. After giving its warning to him, and 
in the absence of red flag indicators (or causes for concern) arising from the application and 
because Mr S declared the lowest level of capital investment, I am not persuaded that there 
was anything in the circumstances of his application that should have stopped Plus500 from 
granting him the account.
There is no ongoing responsibility upon a firm to continue reviewing appropriateness after 
the initial assessment. The regulators rule at COBS 10.4.2 R says a firm  is not required 
to make a new assessment [of appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate 
transaction  by its client(s), and that a firm complies with the rules for assessing 
appropriateness  provided that it makes the necessary appropriateness assessment 
before beginning that service. 
I mention this because Mr S says indications about his problems in the account were evident 
in late 2019 and that Plus500 should have reacted to protect him in this respect. Plus500 
exhausted its appropriateness assessment at the outset and, as the above rule says, it was 
not required to keep appropriateness under review. A potential exception arises when an 
account or service basis changes  whereby the new service or account type should be 
assessed for appropriateness  but this does not apply to Mr S case. His argument in this 
respect invokes the regulators clients best interests rule, so I address this separately further 
below.
The account was based on an execution only service and I have seen no evidence of an 
advisory service from Plus500 to Mr S. A firms duty to assess suitability for a client arises 
from an advice-based relationship, not an execution only based relationship. As such, 
Plus500 was not obliged to assess suitability of CFD trading for Mr S.
Issue 2
Available evidence simply does not support the claim that Mr S was not given risk warnings 
or that he was not given clear and sufficient risk warnings. I conclude that he was given 
meaningful, clear and sufficient warnings (and notices) about the risks inherent in the 
account and the risks of trading CFDs. There is evidence of these warnings in the UA, RDN and KID that Mr S acknowledged (as documents he had read) in order to open the account. I 
also note that a summary of such warnings features, as standard, at the footnote of the 
emails sent to him by Plus500 in response to his queries over time  the contact records 
evidence shows this. The same type of standard notice was on Plus500s website. 
Issue 3
There is no evidence that Plus500 knew of Mr S serious ill-health problems prior to his 
complaint. He appears to concede this. He argues that an enquiry into his health should 
have been conducted and that if that had been done, he would have disclosed these 
problems. Neither the regulators rules nor the terms for the account required such an 
enquiry. In addition, I have not seen evidence of anything prior to submission of the 
complaint that should have been identified by Plus500 as an indication that such problems 
existed.
There is also no evidence that Plus500 was informed, prior to the complaint, that Mr S 
trading and/or losses had become out of control. I am not persuaded that it ought to have 
suspected this from the activities within his account. If Mr S says his accumulation of losses 
should have been an indicator of problems, on balance I would disagree. For firms in the 
sector, and in CFD trading, accounts accumulating losses or significant losses are not 
uncommon. Indeed, the risk warnings given to Mr S forecasted the possibility or probability 
of such losses. 
The fact that he was making significant losses, in isolation, would not have been enough to 
indicate to Plus500 that he was not in control of his trading and/or losses, or that he had an 
affordability problem. Furthermore, it must be said that the notion of affordability usually rests 
in the context of a firm assessing suitability for a client. As I said above, Plus500 had no duty 
to assess suitability for Mr S. To its credit, once it became aware of Mr S ill-health and 
financial problems it closed the account. I consider that a similar analysis applies to the point 
he made about funding the account from his ISA. This, in isolation, did not indicate a 
problem.
The regulators rule at COBS 2.1.1 (R) contains the clients best interests provisions and it 
says A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client. Its Handbook also includes a principle for firms  under Principle 6  to  pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Firms provide clients with a variety of services, so the clients best interests rule is to be 
applied in the context of the execution only service in Mr S case. Plus500 provided him with 
the trading facility but did not give him advice or manage his account or monitor his account 
or monitor his trading (or trading outcomes). This significantly limited its opportunity to know 
about Mr S problems. Unless it was made aware of those problems  or ought reasonably to 
have been aware of them  its duty to act in his best interests could not have been triggered. 
As I have addressed above, there is no evidence that it ought reasonably to have been 
aware of his problems and, as evidence confirms, he did not make Plus500 aware of them 
until his complaint. In response, Plus500 safeguarded his best interests by closing the 
account and preventing a worsening of the problems.
Conclusion
I have given due consideration to the submissions made by Mr S and I appreciate his 
strength of feeling about the matters in his complaint. However, the balance of evidence 
does not support the complaint and neither do the terms for the account or relevant 
regulations. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman