DRN-2292979
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about a claim she made with her travel insurer, U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI), when she lost a bag on holiday. Mrs P is unhappy UKI wouldnt settle her claim for the 
full amount, and feels she shouldnt have been asked for evidence of personal items such as 
clothes and make-up.
I looked at this complaint in September. While I agreed with our investigators view, I decided 
to expand on the reasoning theyd used. I sent out a provisional decision explaining my 
views, and asked Mrs P and UKI to let me know their thoughts. Im now going to make a final 
decision. 
Im not going to repeat everything that was in my provisional decision, just the bits that are 
needed to understand the complaint and my reasoning about it. 
What happened
Mrs P made a claim on a travel insurance policy provided by UKI, after she lost a travel bag 
on holiday. Mrs P couldnt provide evidence that UKI wanted for all the items claimed for. 
She pointed out that few people would keep that sort of evidence for the clothes and 
cosmetics she was claiming for. 
The total claimed value for the unevidenced items was £914.50. UKI offered to pay 50% of 
this. Mrs P didnt think this was fair, and raised her complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said UKI shouldnt have expected Mrs P to have kept receipts 
for the personal items, and the claim should be paid out in line with the remaining terms of 
the insurance policy. Once Id factored in a limit on consumable items and the excess, this 
came to £728. I also said UKI should pay interest on this amount, from the date of loss. 
In response, Mrs P felt this was a fair outcome, but UKI didnt. They felt fairly new items, as 
Id said Mrs Ps were, would be more likely to have receipts available. They also felt that the 
items were more likely to have been bought with a card, so traceable through bank 
statement evidence. And they felt a compromise in valuing the items was fairer than paying 
what a customer had claimed, given the wording of the insurance policy. 
Ill address these points below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have said the terms and conditions of the insurance policy should be considered by my 
decision. I agree, and did so in my earlier provisional decision. Page 36 of the policy 
explained how UKI would deal with claims for lost personal possessions. This said for a 
claim to be considered, Mrs P would need to provide proof of ownership for the items you 
are claiming for to substantiate your claim.
I recognise this sort of condition isnt unusual in insurance policies. And the evidence 
referred to would help UKI substantiate the claim  it would show Mrs P had owned the 
items, and what they were worth when she bought them. 
But the issue here is that wasnt fair on Mrs P. Shed been able to provide evidence for more 
valuable items in her claim, such as electronics. Those items tend to have warranties, which 
require the receipts to be produced for any sort of claim. The items Mrs P couldnt give 
evidence for were clothes or cosmetics. People tend not to keep receipts for those sorts of 
items for more than a month or so, when any return period has typically passed. 
As I said in my provisional decision, UKI needed to take a more pragmatic approach when 
Mrs P said she couldnt provide evidence for the items. That evidence was to enable UKI to 
substantiate the claim, not to put a barrier in the way of Mrs P claiming on her policy. So 
when making my decision Ive thought about how UKI could have done that without the 
evidence theyd asked for.
Here, all the items listed in the claim seem consistent with the sorts of things someone would 
take away with them in a travel bag. So I find UKI should have accepted that the items were 
as described. 
Ive thought about whether wear and tear should be applied, as the insurance policy said 
some deduction could be made for this. But the policy didnt say how much it would be. A 
later policy said UKI would make a 30% deduction where evidence didnt confirm the age of 
items. But Mrs Ps agreement with UKI didnt specify this. And her claim for the items being 
fairly new seemed consistent with her having taken them on the holiday. So I find no wear 
and tear deduction is justified.
I dont think the items being fairly new makes it more likely Mrs P would have receipts for 
them. My view is most people would only keep a clothes or cosmetics receipt for as long as 
the return period lasted. After that, the receipt would be of no use, and so is likely to be 
thrown away. Mrs P may have had the clothes more than a month, and reasonably still 
consider them fairly new. 
And while Mrs P has shown us bank statements for purchases she made on her cards, this 
doesnt show the specific items that were purchased. So I dont see UKIs argument about 
using a card to buy the items helps me come to a decision in this complaint. 
For valuing the items against what Mrs P claimed, the list of items was specific enough UKI 
could have looked at the present-day cost of the same or very similar items. So, while Mrs P 
may not have remembered the exact value of a particular item, a close estimate could have 
been made. 
Having considered the case again, and the responses to my provisional decision, I confirm 
my decision that UKI should have been satisfied Mrs P had lost the items shed claimed for. 
The understandable lack of evidence didnt justify an arbitrary 50% deduction to the value 
claimed. The items should have been treated as being fairly new. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I discussed the other terms of the insurance policy that looked to 
apply to Mrs Ps claim. Page 36 of the policy set a limit for consumable items of £100 per 
insured person. The definition for consumable items included cosmetics, like the make-up 
Mrs P had claimed for. Looking at the items listed, consumables total £236.50. So, considering the circumstances, I 
think its fair for UKI to pay up to the limit of £100 for these items. This, after factoring in a 
£50 excess, lowers the total settlement to £728.
I asked UKI to let me know if there were any other terms that should apply to the claim. They 
havent identified any. So to settle this claim, and so put right Mrs Ps complaint, UKI should 
pay the £728 noted above. 
Ive also decided UKI should pay simple interest at 8% per year on the settlement amount, 
from the date of loss until the settlement is paid. If UKI considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs P how much 
its taken off. Shes also asked for a certificate showing this deduction, if made, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about U K Insurance Limited. To put this right, they should settle 
her claim for £728, after deductions. They should also pay simple interest at 8% on this 
settlement, from the date of loss to the date its paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman