DRN-2143971
The complaint
Miss W says that her solicitor received the completion funds from her mortgage with 
Paragon Bank Plc too late. Shes said this led to people further up the chain not being able 
to complete on the agreed day and shes been held liable for their costs.
  
What happened
Miss W owned a property and was remortgaging that to Paragon on a buy-to-let basis. She 
was using the extra funds she raised from the remortgage to put towards the purchase of a 
new residential property.
Miss Ws solicitor sent the Report on Title (ROT) to Paragon on 20 June 2019 for 
completion on Monday 8 July 2019.
The solicitor phoned Paragon on 2 July and 5 July. In the call on Friday 5 July they were told 
the ROT couldnt be actioned as it stated the building insurance policy only ran until 
30 June 2019, so Paragon needed up to date insurance details. There was also a problem 
with how the solicitor had filled in section 8 of the ROT form.
Miss W says she provided her solicitor with an up to date building insurance policy schedule 
over the weekend, and her solicitor emailed that to Paragon on the morning of 8 July.
There were calls between the solicitor and Paragon that day as the solicitor had provided a 
copy of the insurance schedule but hadnt provided a new ROT with the correct details 
written on it. There were also still problems with what the solicitor had written in section 8 
(that should have just contained the word Remortgage).
Once everything was satisfied for completion, Paragon released funds at 1.55pm.
After completion Miss W complained to Paragon saying that shed been held liable for the 
costs of those above her in the chain as her solicitor hadnt received the funds until 3pm and 
then the next solicitor up hadnt received them until 4pm, which meant people were unable to 
move on 8 July as intended.
Our investigator said that Paragons offer to cover Miss Ws additional legal fees of £374 in 
recognition of the delay between 20 June and 5 July was fair. He said interest should be 
paid on that amount from 8 July 2019 until settlement. He also said Paragon should pay 
£200 compensation. He didnt think Paragon was liable for the rest of the money Miss W 
wanted to claim for the costs of the people above her in the chain that shed paid.
As Miss W didnt agree with that assessment it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered this case very carefully and I can see how difficult it must have been for 
Miss W being asked by others in the chain to cover their costs. What I need to decide is if 
Paragon was entirely, partially, or not at all at fault here.
Paragon has admitted it should have done better between 20 June and 5 July; that is 
between when it received the ROT and when it told Miss Ws solicitor that the ROT they had 
submitted was wrong.
But thats the key point here. The reason why funds werent released sooner is due to 
mistakes by Miss Ws solicitor. If Miss Ws solicitor had completed the legal paperwork 
correctly then Ive no reason to believe the funds wouldnt have been released on 5 July, 
ready for completion on 8 July.
It isnt in dispute that it would have helped if Paragon had checked the solicitors work 
sooner, but it shouldnt have to. This was a straightforward remortgage transaction and so 
on 5 July it should have been a quick check of the paperwork and then the funds released. 
When Paragon realised the paperwork had been completed incorrectly it notified Miss Ws 
solicitor before 11am. So there was still plenty of time of it to have been corrected and the 
funds released that day.
Miss W says her solicitor sent over all the paperwork first thing Monday morning. In the call 
at about 10.30am on the Monday the solicitor said she wanted an update, to which Paragon 
replied it had asked for information on Friday. The solicitor then said OK I believe I sent 
those this morning. When asked at what time theyd been sent the solicitor said it was 
9.38am, but when Paragon checked its inbox nothing was showing as having been received. 
The solicitor then sent it through whilst on the phone and Paragon confirmed that email was 
in the inbox within a minute. That information was received at about 10.40am and was 
immediately passed through to the completions officer. Unfortunately, the updated ROT 
hadnt been provided (showing the correct building insurance information) so Paragon had to 
go back to Miss Ws solicitor again to request that. Paragons contact notes show it sent an 
email to Miss Ws solicitor at 10.50am, and then again at 12.22pm.
Having listened to the various calls at no point did Miss Ws solicitor say they needed the 
funds before a certain time. Weve been told that Miss Ws solicitor needed the funds by 
1pm, but the solicitor dealing with it didnt tell Paragon that.
In 10.30am call on 8 July, Paragon said:
Ill forward it across to the person dealing with the case now just to make her aware its 
here and hopefully we can work on releasing funds. If youve not heard anything from us 
by maybe 1.30 by all means give us another call.
To which Miss Ws solicitor just replied OK.
And in the second call at about 12.30pm Paragon said it was still awaiting the amended ROT 
as whilst Miss Ws solicitor had sent in the new building insurance schedule, they hadnt sent 
the new ROT that was needed with those details on it. The solicitor asked, once theyd sent 
it over, roughly how long would it be until they received the funds. To which Paragon replied 
the cut off is 3.30pm, so if looking to complete that day Paragon needed the new ROT 
before then. But once theyd got the new ROT it wouldnt be able to confirm how long it would take for the funds to be there. Again the solicitor raised no concerns about needing 
the funds by a certain time.
This wasnt additional information that Paragon was asking for at the last minute, it was 
information that should have been provided by the solicitor as part of the ROT. The solicitor 
made no mention of the 1pm deadline, and only provided the last of the information that was 
required at around 12.30pm on the day of completion. Paragon said that once it received the 
information funds would be sent at any point up until 3.30pm and the solicitor didnt say that 
would be too late or ask for the funds to be released urgently.
All things considered Im satisfied Paragons offer to cover Miss Ws additional £374 legal bill 
plus the £200 compensation it agreed to pay is fair and reasonable for its lack of contact 
between 20 June and 5 July.  But there are no grounds for me to order it to pay the costs 
Miss W incurred due to others further up the chain failing to move on the Monday as I cant 
hold Paragon liable for what went wrong here for all the reasons Ive given.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Paragon Bank Plc to pay Miss W:
£374 to cover her additional legal costs (if not already paid) plus 8% per annum 
simple interest on that amount from when she paid it until she gets it back, and
 
£200 compensation.
 If Paragon considers HM Revenue & Customs requires it to take off tax from this interest, 
Paragon must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman