DRN-1724971
Complaint
Mr R says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card he took out in 2000. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
mainly to AMEX.
Background
I can see that Mr R has already been offered some money for the commission element 
AMEX received from selling him the PPI. 
But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail and thought Mr R had also been 
mis-sold the PPI policy in the first place. The adjudicator therefore thought more redress is 
due to Mr R. 
AMEX disagreed with this so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to fully uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
AMEX sent us a copy of the credit card application that Mr R filled out, back in 2000. It 
seems he already had been a customer of AMEX during the previous 4 years but this 
application was to upgrade his card account. I can see it was a mailshot type form, which 
means in turn that it was a postal application. 
The form presented Mr R with a yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card. He 
chose to have it and AMEX thinks this is enough to say the policy wasnt mis-sold to him. 
However, I disagree. 
I note the application form contained very little detail and in my view it fell substantially short 
of obtaining enough information about Mr R to ensure he was able to use this type of 
insurance. The description of the PPI on the form was poor in respect of pretty much all the 
important features Mr R would find relevant. So I dont think Mr R would have been steered 
towards ensuring this cover fitted his situation when he was filling out the application.
AMEX had a duty to make sure the information about the PPI was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so Mr R could make an informed decision about whether the PPI was something 
he wanted to have. And given what Ive said above, I dont think AMEX did this.
Mr R told us, for example, that he was self-employed which was a highly relevant matter. 
Thats because I note the conditions set deep within the policy rules describe how self-
employed people have to cease trading and notify the tax authorities if they are to become 
eligible to make certain claims. Mr R had been involved in his type of self-employed work all his life and Ive personally confirmed this. So I dont think hed have wanted to have ceased 
trading just because he wasnt able to temporarily find work. In effect, these onerous 
conditions wouldnt have allowed Mr R to continue to look for work during a downturn or to 
engage with clients about potential work to manage his business through a difficult period.
None of this was explained or even suggested on the application form and so I dont think Mr 
R was aware. I think if this information had been brought to his attention he would have 
considered the PPI a very poor fit for his situation  hed have thought it was very poor value 
for money.
AMEX said it wanted to see proof of his self-employment. However, I note it failed to ask him 
about this in 2000, or indeed in 1996, when he first became a customer. And I can only 
assume that, as it has asked for proof now, AMEX must not have ever asked him about his 
job. I think asking for that proof now, after 20 years, is unreasonable. 
If AMEX considers that type of information important then it could have recorded it long 
before. Mr R, on the other hand, has provided consistent and clear information about his job 
so Im upholding his complaint. The PPI was mis-sold because AMEX failed to provide clear 
enough information about the policy. Im satisfied Mr R wouldnt have bought the cover if 
AMEX had provided what it should have.
what AMEX needs to do to put matters right
AMEX should put Mr R in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AMEX should find out how much Mr R would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. AMEX should then refund the difference between what Mr R owes and what 
he would  have owed. If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AMEX 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If when AMEX works out what Mr R would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
R paid more than enough to clear his balance, AMEX should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
R wouldve owed AMEX something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
C. AMEX should tell Mr R what its done to work out A and B and it can take of any 
commission compensation it has already paid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AMEX to take off tax from this interest. AMEX must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
The PPI policy was mis-sold  so I direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay 
back all the cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman