DRN-4370331
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not remove the Tech and
Travel Packs from her account when she told Barclays that she was moving abroad and
asked for all automated payments on her account to be cancelled.
What happened
Barclays did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that Barclays had
acted unfairly or unreasonably, and so didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October 2023, in which I explained why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below, and it 
forms a part of this complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered 
everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs C says that she went to a Barclays branch on 5 July 2020 and explained that she 
was due to move abroad and so wanted to cancel all the regular payments coming 
out of her account.
Unfortunately, Barclays now only has very limited information available from the time. 
For example, there are no notes available from Barclays to indicate what mayve 
been said.
However, where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, 
I need to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything that is 
available.
Barclays has been able to provide bank statements from 2020. And these show that 
there were regular transactions in the UK on the account up until late July 2020. But 
then from August 2020 there were only a few transactions  these largely comprised 
of the monthly automated Travel and Tech Pack fees and a few transactions in 
foreign currencies.
Given the evidence that is available, Im persuaded by Mrs Cs explanation of events 
and that what she says is likely to be an accurate reflection of what happened. In the
circumstances, I think its likely that she did ask Barclays to ensure that all regular 
payments coming from her account had stopped. For example, I can see that there 
was a Direct Debit set up to pay a telecoms provider, and the last payment that was 
taken from the account was on 28 July 2020  which marries up with Mrs Cs desire 
to ensure that all regular outgoing payments were stopped, before she moved 
abroad. I also think it is plausible in the circumstances that Mrs C did not want the 
remaining funds in her account to be depleted by regular payments whilst she was 
abroad.
Barclays has said that the payments for the Packs are account fees, and are not 
Direct Debits. And I cant rule out the possibility (having listened to the first telephone 
conversation Mrs C had with our service) that when Mrs C spoke to Barclays, she 
mayve asked that all Direct Debits be cancelled on her account, rather than all 
automated payments. But even if that were the case, I think its likely that Mrs C 
wouldve told Barclays why she wanted them to be cancelled i.e. because she was 
moving abroad. I also think its understandable if Mrs C didnt realise that the account 
fees were not actually paid by Direct Debit.
Nevertheless, when Mrs C asked Barclays to check that all regular payments on her 
account were cancelled, I think Barclays shouldve also asked if she wanted to 
continue paying the Tech and Travel Pack fees, or whether she wanted to cancel 
them as well.
Had Barclays pointed out that the monthly fee for those packs would in fact continue 
(even if all Direct Debits had been cancelled), I think its likely that Mrs C wouldve 
asked that they be cancelled too. I say this as Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Mrs C wanted to retain the cover they provided. Indeed, it seems unlikely that Mrs C 
wouldve still wanted such products in place when living in another country. And as 
Mrs C was moving abroad, it doesnt look like she wouldve been eligible to claim on 
them anyway  although I appreciate that the insurer may not have been aware of 
this, as Mrs C chose to keep a UK address recorded on her account, rather than her 
new address abroad.
Barclays has said that it continued to write to Mrs C about the Tech and Travel 
Packs. But Mrs C has said that she had a friend in the UK to receive her mail, but her 
friend didnt open her post. Of course, I cant say that Barclays is at fault for Mrs C 
not changing her address or not arranging for someone she trusted to open her mail 
for her at her UK address. But I still think its the case that Barclays couldve done 
more when Mrs C likely asked for the regular payments to stop on her account. And 
had it checked if she wanted the monthly Pack fees to also be cancelled, I think she 
would have confirmed that she wanted them to be cancelled as well.
Putting matters right
To put things right, Im currently minded to tell Barclays to:
Refund the Tech and Travel Pack fees Mrs C was charged from August 2020 
until when they were eventually removed from the account; and
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the above amounts, calculated from the date of 
each fee to the date of settlement, less any deductible tax.Mrs C responded to the provisional decision and said that she accepts the provisional 
decision. Barclays also responded and said that it agrees with the recommendations to 
refund the Pack fees from August 2020 to July 2023, which it calculates as £952, plus the 
8% simple annual interest, less tax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, and as both parties agreed with my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
As such, in summary, I think that Mrs C had asked that all regular payments were cancelled 
due to her moving abroad and I think that Barclays shouldve checked whether Mrs C 
wanted to cancel her Pack. Had it done so, I think that Mrs C wouldve confirmed that she 
wanted that to be cancelled too.
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays needs to:
Refund the Tech and Travel Pack fees Mrs C was charged from August 2020 
until when they were eventually removed from the account; and
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the above amounts, calculated from the 
date of each fee to the date of settlement, less any deductible tax.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what I have outlined above, to resolve this 
complaint in full and final settlement of the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman