DRN-3426838
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold 
Service account in August 2004.
Mr S says that he found out he was being charged for his account and says he presumed it 
was for an overdraft. He says he has since discovered the monthly fee was in return for 
insurance benefits such as phone insurance breakdown cover and travel insurance.
Mr S also says that hed complained about charges on his account, but says his account 
wasnt downgraded.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained out approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to say that the Gold Service account was mis-sold.
Ive started off by considering whether Mr S was given a fair choice in agreeing to the Gold 
Service account.
Mr S said to Lloyds that he was led to believe that the Gold Service account was the only 
one that was available to him. However, I can see that when the account was sold to him, he 
had a fee-free account, and had done so since prior to September 2001. As such, when the 
account was sold to Mr S, I think he agreed to it knowing that fee-free accounts were freely 
available to him. 
I note that when Mr S agreed to upgrade his account, his overdraft facility had been £300 for 
a number of years, and this didnt change until a number of years later. So, I dont think its 
likely that Mr S agreed to the account because he thought he had to have it to have an 
overdraft either. As such, based on everything I have seen, I think that Mr S was given a fair 
choice when he was sold the Gold Service account. 
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr S. This meant that Lloyds had to make sure that it 
was a reasonable fit for Mr Ss circumstances at the time.
When the account was sold to Mr S, it cost £10 per month and included benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance, amongst other 
benefits. It also provided a £100 interest free overdraft feature, as well as lower rates of 
interest on overdrawn balances above this amount  up to the agreed limit. And it included a 
feature, whereby if the balance is kept above a certain amount (£2,000 at the time), Mr S 
would not be charged the monthly account fee. This feature is known as a fee-waiver.
Customer notes from the time indicate that the account was sold to Mr S as he was 
interested in the travel insurance. There is also evidence to indicate that Mr S couldve made 
use of the breakdown cover and the mobile phone insurance too  although it wouldve been 
up to Mr S to cancel his existing cover if he wished to rely on the cover provided by the 
account. The notes also indicate that due to the balance of the account, Mr S would not have 
to pay the monthly fee. And the statements from the time show that his account was 
regularly in credit by more than £2,000, before he agreed to the account. As such, based on 
Mr Ss circumstances at the time, the account seemed to be a good fit for Mr S. 
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mr S, Lloyds also had to make sure 
that Mr S was given the important information about the account, so that he could decide 
whether it was worth upgrading to for himself. Based on the notes from the time, it appears 
that the travel insurance was discussed with Mr S. And it also seems that the fee-waiver was 
discussed with Mr S as well. Therefore, I think he was given enough information to generally 
understand what hed agreed to. 
However, given how long ago the sale took place, I accept that Lloyds may not have given 
Mr S all of the information it shouldve, when selling the account. However, Ive not seen 
anything that makes me think that Mr S wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he 
been given even more information about it. Afterall, as he was able to qualify for the fee-
waiver at the time, he was able to get the account without having to pay for it. 
So based on everything I have seen, I dont think that the Gold Service account was mis-
sold. I appreciate that over the course of time, Mr S mayve forgotten the reasons why he 
agreed to it in the first place, and I also appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, he may 
feel that it has been poor value for money due to how long he kept the packaged account. 
However, that doesnt mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to him when it did.
Finally, I understand that Mr S says hed previously complained about charges on his 
account and says that his account wasnt downgraded. However, Lloyds records indicate 
that Mr S had previously only complained about overdraft charges, but not about the type of 
account he held. And I can see that in its response to this complaint, Lloyds explained that if 
Mr S wanted to downgrade his account, he would need to choose what account to change it 
to, and explained the ways in which Mr S could go about doing this. I therefore, cant say 
that Lloyds is at fault because his account remained as a Gold Service account after hed 
first complained about it (or the overdraft charges).
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman