DRN-3098083
The complaint
Mr W complains about poor service provided by an appointed representative of Connells 
Limited when he re-mortgaged. He asks that it refunds the lifetime fee he paid in 2018 and 
the administration fee he paid in 2020, and compensates him for missing out on the 
mortgage deal he wanted.
What happened
Connells recommended a mortgage to Mr W in 2018. He paid a lifetime fee which included 
future mortgage advice. Mr W contacted Connells in late 2020 about re-mortgaging when his 
product expired. Mr W had seen a mortgage deal on-line which included a £500 cashback.
Connells said the deal Mr W had seen wasnt available and recommended a different 
mortgage. Mr W paid a fee of £99 to proceed with the application. A mortgage offer was 
issued in December but by mid-January the mortgage hadnt completed. 
Mr W says Connells misled him and its service was poor. He had to chase matters himself. 
He says he could have looked for a deal himself and the fee was a waste of money, 
especially as he could have applied directly to the lender for the deal he wanted. Mr W says 
Connells should refund the fees hes paid and compensate him for the £500 cashback he 
missed out on.
Our investigator said Connells had made it clear in 2018 that a £99 fee would be payable for 
each application, and that some mortgage products were only available by applying directly 
to the lender. It told Mr W it should have access to the deal hed seen online if this was still 
available, but he could apply directly to the lender if he wanted to do so. 
Our investigator said the lender issued a mortgage offer shortly after Connells made the 
application on Mr Ws behalf and Connells did what it could to progress the application. He 
said Connells wasnt responsible for any delays in the lender completing the mortgage.
Mr W didnt agree. He says he was misled by Connells and missed out on the mortgage deal 
he wanted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Connells clear about the lifetime fee and what services it would provide?
When Mr W took mortgage advice from Connells in 2018 it gave him a document which set 
out the terms of its service (headed Key Information on our Mortgage and Protection 
Services). This key information included:
That it offered mortgages from a panel of lenders, with a list of the lenders on its panel.
That it did not offer products that Mr W could only obtain by going direct to the lender 
and not via an intermediary.
That there was a lifetime fee of £499 payable when Mr W applied for the mortgage in 
2018. This was a one-time fee, regardless of how many times he moves or re-
mortgages.
That there would be an additional administration fee of £99 for making the application in 
2018 and for each future mortgage application.
Mr W signed a declaration to confirm hed received a copy of the Key Information on our 
Mortgage and Protection Services. The declaration also set out the services Connells would 
provide for the fee, which included mortgage advice and handling the paperwork involved 
with mortgage applications. It said Mr W was entitled to a discount on legal services 
provided by conveyancers on its panel.
I think Connells made the lifetime fee and the services it would provide clear to Mr W. I dont 
think it misled him about there being no more fees or that it would cover his legal costs. 
Did Connells mislead Mr W about being able to apply for the deal hed seen online?
Mr W says Connells told him that it would be able to apply for the deal hed seen online if it 
was still available. He says he was told that if it wasnt available through Connells then it 
wasnt available at all, and the comparison site hadnt been updated. Mr W says hes since 
found out this was wrong.
Ive read the correspondence and I dont think Connells misled Mr W. The adviser said she 
couldnt see the deal that Mr W described on her system  while she could see a deal from 
the same lender this included a product fee. She said her system was live, and it might be 
that the comparison site was out of date. Mr W asked if hed be able to apply for the deal 
and the adviser said she didnt know  hed have to try it.
The deal Mr W wanted wasnt available on Connells system. This could have been because 
it was no longer available, it was only available to customers that applied directly to the 
lender or perhaps it was the same deal as on the advisers system but the product fee wasnt 
shown on the comparison site. If Mr W wanted to check if the deal was available he could 
have contacted the lender, as the adviser suggested.
As far as I know, Mr W didnt contact the lender directly. I dont know if hed have been able 
to secure the deal if he had. But I dont think Connells made an error. It couldnt apply for the 
deal on behalf of Mr W. I think it was fair to suggest he try contacting the lender.
Did Connells cause delays with Mr Ws re-mortgage?
Connells applied for a mortgage on Mr Ws behalf on 12 December and the lender made an 
offer on 21 December 2020. I cant see that Connells caused any delay with the application. 
Once the mortgage offer was issued the process was in the hands of the lender and solicitor. 
It seems Mr W didnt receive the mortgage offer from the lender and he says the solicitor 
didnt receive a copy either. I dont know why this was and Im not looking into the actions of 
the lender or the solicitor here. Connells sent a copy of the mortgage offer to Mr W. Connells 
contacted the lender and solicitor to check why matters werent progressing as they should. 
While I appreciate that Mr W was worried about delays and spent time chasing what was 
happening, I dont think any delays here were due to an error by Connells.Did Connells mislead Mr W about legal costs?
The documents provided to Mr W in 2018 said hed be entitled to a discount if he used 
Connells panel of conveyancers. It didnt say Connells would cover his legal costs. 
The mortgage recommended by Connells in 2020 included free standard legal costs. I cant 
see that Connells is responsible if the lender or solicitor required payment of additional legal 
fees.
I appreciate that Mr W feels he hasnt received good value for the fees he paid. But I dont 
think Connells misled him about the services it would provide. Connells sourced a mortgage 
for Mr W in 2018 and in 2020, and managed the applications on his behalf. I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require it to refund fees or pay compensation to Mr W.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman