DRN-1678886
 
Complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
Background
Mr K applied for three loans with BoS. He was sold PPI in connection with all of these loans 
 in 1998, 1999 and 2000. 
The PPI policies were all regular premium policies. They would have provided a monthly 
benefit for up to 60 months if Mr K was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if Mr 
K lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr K was eligible under the policies. Based on his age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sales, Im satisfied that Mr K was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Ks account. Mr K says that he was told he had to take PPI in order to 
get the loans despite him telling the representative that he had sufficient existing repayment 
provisions. He said he didnt want or need PPI and it was an unnecessary added expense.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about 
everything Mr K and BoS have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale 
to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, I have seen copies of all three loan application forms and credit agreements. 
The loan application forms all provided Mr K with two equally clear options to take or refuse 
PPI. Mr K, on all three occasions, appears to have chosen the option to take PPI. And he 
signed separately for it. The credit agreements that followed included PPI (as well as its 
cost) on the basis of Mr Ks earlier selection. Mr K signed these agreements.
While I appreciate that this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr K wasnt told something 
different, based on the evidence Ive seen of how PPI was presented in the documents, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as optional and that it was only applied to the 
accounts because Mr K chose to take it out. 
BoS say they advised Mr K to take PPI. This means had to check if the PPI was suitable 
for  Mr K. I cant say that BoS checked all the things they should have but I do think the PPI 
was suitable for Mr K. I say this because:
 
Although Mr K has told us that his employer would have paid him six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay if he was off work sick, the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to this and for a much longer period of time (60 months). It would also 
have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr K would have been entitled to 
and for up to 12 months. 
 
I appreciate what Mr K says about the ill health retirement and savings. However, 
these loans were secured loans and therefore Mr K would have been risking a 
valuable asset without sufficient protection. Mr K could have used his savings for 
other living expenses, if they were still available at the point that he needed them, 
while the PPI took care of the loan repayments. 
 
Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. For 
examples, terms relating to certain medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
 
I understand what Mr K says about PPI being an additional cost. But he was made 
aware of the cost in the credit agreements and he chose to take it out. Mr K seems to 
think that he would have had to pay extra interest on the PPI but that is not the case 
as this was a monthly premium PPI policy and not a single premium PPI policy where 
he would have had to borrow extra to pay for the PPI upfront. I havent seen any 
evidence which would suggest that the PPI itself was unaffordable for Mr K.
 
Mr K could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
 
BoS also had to give Mr K clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take it out.
I can see that the cost of the PPI was set out clearly in the credit agreements but its 
possible that not all the other information BoS gave Mr K was as clear as it should have 
been. But this in itself doesnt mean the policies were mis-sold as I have to go on and 
consider whether better information would have put him off taking them out. And I dont think 
it would have. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr K these PPI 
policies.
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman