DRN-2340952
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under his 
home insurance policy after his property was subject to an escape of water.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr Fs home was subject to an escape of water which caused damage to 
his bathroom, kitchen and spare room. Mr F arranged for the leak to be fixed and made a 
claim to UKI.
UKI accepted the claim. It conducted checks to confirm there was no asbestos present in the 
property. Following this, in April 2018, its contractor certified that the property had dried. 
Mr F said he would like UKI to arrange for the repairs to be carried out. UKI appointed a loss 
adjuster to manage the claim. However, there were problems of communication between 
Mr F and the other parties, and disagreements also arose over the scope of works which 
should be covered by the claim. Mr F raised complaints over the handling of the claim and 
UKI agreed to make compensation payments totalling £350.
Eventually, in July 2019, reinstatement work began. However, further disputes arose.
In August 2019, Mr F complained to UKI about the handling of the claim. He raised a number 
of issues. These included: the scope of the work; the quality of the work; the non-
replacement of his cooker; the unauthorised removal of a bed; the non-testing of the boiler; 
the safety of the electrics; the damage caused to items around the house; and the rudeness 
of UKIs contractors.
UKI issued a final response to the complaint in November 2019. It disputed that the cooker 
had been damaged by the escape of water and therefore it didnt agree to replace this. It 
noted that the bed had been removed from the property through an apparent 
misunderstanding and said it would arrange for its contractor to return this. It said that the 
reason there were gaps in the tiled floor in the kitchen was because Mr F had chosen to 
revise the kitchen layout and therefore he would have to pay for the additional tiling which 
was required. It also said that plastering hadnt been carried out in the spare room because 
the plasterwork in that room hadnt been damaged. It noted that Mr F would no longer allow 
the contractor to work on his property and said that it would therefore work out a cash 
settlement to allow him to complete the outstanding work. It also accepted that there had 
been delays, that some of the repair work carried out was below standard, and that Mr F and 
his daughter had been caused some distress in their dealings with the contractors. It offered 
£400 compensation for these issues. 
In December 2019, having assessed the outstanding work, UKI offered Mr F £362 in 
settlement of his buildings claim (including £94 to cover additional electricity costs which he 
incurred during the claim) and £700 in settlement of his contents claim.
Mr F was unhappy at UKIs response to his complaint. He referred his complaint to us.
During the course of our investigation, UKI realised it had calculated the settlement of the 
buildings claim incorrectly and increased this to £724.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
the revised cash settlement offer for the buildings claim was fair. She noted that there was a 
dispute over whether UKIs contractor was at fault for removing the bed (which had been left 
outside the property) in the belief it was intended for disposal but she considered that UKI 
had acted reasonably by trying to return the bed, albeit that Mr F hadnt accepted its return. 
She considered there was no evidence to support that the cooker had been damaged by the 
escape of water and so it was reasonable for UKI to decline cover for the replacement of 
this. She considered that the contents settlement offer of £700 was fair and was based on 
the damaged items which had been validated by the loss adjuster; she said that if Mr F 
wanted to claim for more than this he would need to provide evidence to substantiate his 
loss. She noted that there had been problems in the handling of the claim but considered 
that UKIs offer of £400 compensation, on top of the £350 it had already paid, was fair, 
particularly as some of the problems had been caused by Mr F being unavailable when UKI 
and its contractors had repeatedly tried to contact him. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. He made the following comments:
the repair work was poor, didnt conform to the scope which had been agreed and would 
cost more to complete than the cash settlement amount offered by UKI;
in particular, the kitchen had been poorly fitted and hed not been informed that there 
would be a problem with an exposed area of untiled floor;
the cooker had been damaged by the escape of water and hed been led to believe that 
UKI would cover its replacement; 
the electrics in his property had been left unsafe;
the boiler had now been cleaned of debris left by UKIs contractor but he had been 
advised it needed to be replaced;
the property had not been properly dried as there were ongoing problems with damp;
hed intended to rent out the spare room but this hadnt been possible during the claim 
and therefore he should be compensated for the loss of rental income hed suffered;
hed refused the return of the bed because it had been damaged in the course of the 
removal;
other water-damaged items had been stored in the garage for three months and viewed 
by UKIs loss adjuster so he didnt understand why not all these were included in the 
contents settlement.
 
the compensation was inadequate for the delays and poor handling of the claim;
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Outstanding repair work and cash settlement for buildings claim
In October 2019, UKI arranged for its contractor and loss adjuster to meet with Mr F at his 
property to discuss the outstanding work. I have seen a report of that meeting and the 
accompanying photographs. Im satisfied that the agreed work had been carried out but 
some of this was not of an adequate quality and so there were some snagging issues. The 
loss adjuster considered that it would take up to two days for a decorator to make good the 
poor decorations and one or two days for a carpenter to resolve issues with a worktop, a 
splashback, a toilet door and a vanity unit. I consider this was reasonable.
Mr F made clear that he didnt want the contractor back at his property. UKI therefore offered 
a cash settlement of £362 comprised of £267 to cover the cost of a decorator, carpenter and 
an electrical inspection, plus £94 to cover Mr Fs extra electricity costs. It increased this 
settlement offer to £724 during the course of our investigation after it recognised it had made 
a mistake in its calculations.
I consider that UKI still didnt properly allow for the cost of tradesmen for the required periods 
but it has since paid Mr F a further £362 in acknowledgement of this. Im satisfied that the 
eventual cash settlement offer of £1,086 (before the deduction of the policy excess) is fair 
and that UKI doesnt need to pay more than this in respect of the buildings claim. 
Fitting of kitchen
According to the evidence, Mr F wanted to change the layout of his kitchen. The floor of the 
kitchen hadnt been damaged by the escape of water. However, as a result of the change in 
layout, a small section of floor which had previously been hidden, and hence untiled, was 
now exposed. And Mr F has been unable to find a matching tile. This is unfortunate but, 
since the flooring was not covered under the claim, I consider it is not UKIs responsibility to 
put the matter right.
Mr F has also complained about the quality of the work carried out in the kitchen. However, 
Im satisfied that any problems in this regard were addressed through the cash settlement 
described above.
Cooker
Mr F says the cooker was damaged by the escape of water, albeit that he didnt realise this 
until some time later. However, there is no expert evidence to show the cooker was 
damaged in the escape of water and I can see nothing to indicate to UKI ever agreed to 
replace it.
Electrics 
It appears that there were problems with the wiring in Mr Fs property but these were to do 
with age rather than the escape of water. It wasnt UKIs responsibility to put right problems 
which were unrelated to the claim. Mr F was unwilling to fit an earth cable throughout the 
property and UKIs contractor therefore agreed as a workaround solution to instead fit double 
insulated lights to replace those which had been damaged. I consider this was fair. As noted 
above, UKI agreed to cover the cost of an electrical inspection so that Mr F could reassure 
himself that the work which had been carried out was safe and I consider this was fair also. 
Mr F hasnt provided any evidence to show that the work which was carried out was unsafe 
so I dont consider there is anything more which I can reasonably ask UKI to do.Boiler
After Mr F raised concerns about the boiler, UKI agreed to cover the cost of an inspection. 
Mr F has now arranged that inspection and UKI has reimbursed him accordingly. Ive seen 
no evidence to show that the boiler was damaged as a result of the escape of water. 
I therefore dont consider that UKI is required to do anything more in respect of the boiler.
Drying of property
Mr F says he has ongoing issues of damp at his property which causes him to believe the 
property was never properly dried following the escape of water. However, Mr F has 
provided no expert evidence to support that the damp issues he is now experiencing are 
related to the original escape of water. UKI has provided a drying certificate issued by its 
contractor in April 2018. Ive therefore no reasonable grounds for concluding that the 
property wasnt properly dried. 
Loss of rent
Mr F thinks he should be compensated for the loss he has suffered as a result of not being 
able to rent out his spare room. However, while I note that Mr F says this is what he intended 
to do and he has provided an advert for the room which he placed in March 2020, there is no 
evidence to show he ever intended to let the room sooner than this. I therefore dont think he 
has made a compelling argument that he suffered a loss of rental income because of either 
the escape of water or the poor handling of the claim. Furthermore, apart from the brief 
period while work on the kitchen was being carried out, the property was habitable anyway 
so I cant reasonably say he was prevented from renting out the room if he wished.
Bed
Mr F says he temporarily left a bed covered in tarpaulin in the garden. It was in the proximity 
of items which were to be disposed of and UKIs contractor mistook it for one of those items. 
However, on learning that Mr F did not want the bed to be removed, UKI arranged for the 
contractor to return it. I consider this was reasonable. When the contractor tried to return the 
bed, Mr F wouldnt accept it because he considered it had been damaged in the removal 
process. However, while Mr F has provided a photo of the bed from when the contractor 
attempted to return it, I dont have evidence to show that the contractor damaged the bed. In 
view of this, I cant reasonably say that UKI has done anything wrong.
Other contents
Mr F says that he had a number of other items which were damaged in the escape of water 
which he had kept in the garage for three months before disposing of them. He says that 
UKIs loss adjuster and contractor both saw the majority of these items and that UKI gave 
permission for him to dispose of the items. However, there is no evidence to this effect on 
the file. Im satisfied that UKI has provided cover for those items which Mr F has been able 
to show were damaged in the escape of water. I dont consider it needs to provide cover for 
other items which he says were damaged but for which he is unable to provide evidence.  
Compensation
UKI accepts that its service was not as good as it should have been. There were delays in 
the resolution of the claim (though I can see that these were often due to difficulties in 
getting hold of Mr F). The quality of some of the work fell short of appropriate standards. And 
Mr F found UKIs contractors difficult to deal with. I appreciate that these factors will have caused Mr F a degree of trouble and upset. However, Im satisfied that its offer of £400 
compensation, on top of the £350 it had paid earlier, was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman