DRN-2487078
The complaint
Mr D complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. Here are the loan details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12/03/2019 27/02/2020 78 weeks £300.00 £15.82 per week
Mr D mainly said that Loans 2 Go shouldve known this loan was unaffordable for him 
from the multiple payday loans he was taking out and the missed payments on his 
credit file. He also felt that the interest rate on the loan was grossly excessive and 
unfair.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ds complaint. He came to the view that Loans 2 
Go shouldve seen from its credit checks that it wasnt reasonable to conclude that 
Mr D was likely to be able to sustainably repay the loan and he said this shouldve 
prompted Loans 2 Go to decline Mr Ds loan application. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps he thought Loans 2 Go  should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. So it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ds complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr D and thought carefully about the following key questions:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans 2 Go asked Mr D for details of his income and checked this using an online 
income verification tool. It asked Mr D about his monthly expenditure and carried out a 
credit check to gain an understanding of his financial situation. 
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go had gathered when it agreed to provide this 
loan. It noted that Mr D received a minimum amount of £1,702.85 monthly. After looking at 
the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go increased the amount Mr D had said he 
was spending each month and allowed for a figure of around £1,416. 
It also added a buffer of around 10% of Mr Ds verified income to his expenditure in order to 
allow for any fluctuations in his monthly income or outgoings. Loans 2 Go said that even with 
these adjustments, the contractual loan repayment for this loan would have still been 
affordable.But Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
The information gathered by Loans 2 Go showed that Mr D had regularly been borrowing 
from a number of high cost short term lenders. In the 9 months or so since July 2018, 
Loans 2 Gos credit checks showed that Mr D had taken out 23 loans. Of these, 19 credit 
accounts had been opened by Mr D within the previous 6 months - and at least 10 of these 
loans appear to have been taken the 3 month period running up to Mr D approaching Loans 
2 Go for this loan. And he had 3 active loans when he applied for this loan. 
I've taken into account that Loans 2 Go said that it didnt feel Mr Ds previous loans meant it 
was irresponsible to provide this loan as it said his monthly credit commitments were 
£741.85 and represented a small proportion of his declared income of £2,175. Loans 2 Go 
said it wouldve declined his loan application if it had been concerned about the loan causing 
any detriment to Mr D. 
But I think Mr Ds recent borrowing track record suggested he was repeatedly taking out 
expensive loans  and that not only was this an established borrowing pattern but the 
indications were that he might be becoming more and more reliant on using credit to 
supplement his income. 
I think the lending history Loans 2 Go could see on its credit checks should have alerted 
Loans 2 Go that, as Mr D was regularly borrowing from other short-term lenders, it was 
likely that he was having difficulties managing his money. 
I think thats borne out by the fact that Loans 2 Go could also see that Mr D had 3 credit 
cards very close to their credit limit. And the total debt he had outstanding was in excess 
of £12,000.
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr D wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debt  at a time when the indications were that he was already 
struggling to manage debt. 
So for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint irresponsible lending complaint.  
I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Mr D in 
any other way. I think there was a very large amount of interest payable on this loan as Mr D 
says. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr D 
had to actively engage in the loan application process and I think its likely that he was aware 
of the loan term and the total amount of interest payable which was clearly set out on the 
loan agreement he signed. 
So I havent seen enough to make me think it would be fair to award any additional redress. 
But he has paid interest on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
So Loans 2 Go should now take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt have repaid more than the 
capital amount he borrowed. To put things right for Mr D, Loans 2 Go should:refund everything Mr D paid over and above the principal loan amount and repay this 
to Mr D with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman