DRN-3470897
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt provided the service it should have done in 
regard to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S says that he has always had sufficient funds to make his credit card payments and 
when necessary will transfer his money from one account to another. In October 2020, he 
received notice from HSBC saying that a payment had been reversed due to lack of funds. 
Mr S contacted HSBC and while it didnt accept it had done anything wrong it paid him £70 
as a gesture of goodwill. Mr S then contacted HSBC again as he couldnt use his card and 
was told when a manual payment was taken that he didnt need to make another payment 
until December 2020. This was incorrect and a payment was called for in November 2020.
HSBC says that it sent Mr S a text message on 19 October saying that some payments may 
be reversed without sufficient available balance at 3.30pm. It says that Mr S account didnt 
have sufficient funds at 3.30pm and so the direct debit payment to his credit card was 
reversed. HSBC didnt agree it had made a mistake however it refunded the late payment 
fee of £12 and paid Mr S £70 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Regarding Mr S being told that no payment was due until December and this being taken in 
November HSBC apologised and paid Mr S £75 for the incorrect information. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He accepted that HSBC had sent the text 
message and noted it was Mr S responsibility to have the funds available in his account. 
Although he acknowledged the late payment fee had been refunded he didnt think that 
HSBC had done anything wrong and so didnt think it was required to remove the information 
from Mr S credit file.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that HSBC hadnt provided a read 
receipt of the text, so it hadnt given evidence he had received this. He said he had banked 
with HSBC for nearly 30 years and have never experienced this issue before and asked why 
he had been offered compensation if HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. He reiterated that 
there was a second mistake as he was told payment would be taken in December when it 
was actually taken in November.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S is upset as his credit card payment was returned and this was 
marked on this credit file. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that HSBC had done something wrong. 
I note Mr S comments that he has banked with HSBC for many years and hasnt 
experienced this issue before. And that he has requested a text message to alert him so he 
can transfer his money. However, it is Mr S responsibility to ensure that he has sufficient 
funds in his accounts to make his payments. In this case, Mr S didnt have the funds in his 
account to make his credit card payment.
Noting Mr S comments about a text alert, HSBC has provided extracts from its system notes 
which show a text message was sent at 7.33 on 19 October saying that Some DD/ SOs may 
be reversed without sufficient available balance at 3.30pm. Mr S said that HSBC needs to 
provide a read receipt to show he received this message. However, I think the evidence 
provided shows the alert was sent and while I cannot say why Mr S didnt receive this I 
accept that HSBC did send him the text to alert him to the issue. As noted above it is Mr S' 
responsibility to have the funds in the right accounts to make his payments.
Therefore, while I understand why Mr S is upset, I do not find that HSBC did anything wrong 
in regard to this part of Mr S complaint. I note his comments about HSBC paying 
compensation and can see it refunded the late payment fee and paid £70 as a gesture of 
goodwill. This was the choice of HSBC and as I do not find it did anything wrong I do not 
require it to take any further action in regard to removing the payment marker from Mr S 
credit file.
Mr S has also noted the incorrect information given after he made a manual payment in 
November 2020. HSBC issued a final response letter addressing this point and it paid Mr S 
£75 compensation for the incorrect information he was given. I find this was enough to settle 
this part of Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further in 
settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman