DRN-4119494
The complaint
Miss T complains that Tesco Underwriting Limiteds settlement offer for a home insurance 
claim is unfair.
What happened
Miss T had a Tesco home insurance policy. In February 2022, she discovered water coming 
into her kitchen following a storm. She called Tesco to make a claim on her home insurance. 
Tesco appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report identified damage 
to three areas of Miss Ts home  the main roof, the kitchen extension roof, and kitchen 
interior  and estimated the cost of repairs at £932. Tesco offered Miss T this sum, less her 
£350 excess, to settle the claim.
Miss T didnt accept the offer. She told Tesco shed had builders quotes for £7,800 and 
£9,000, and both quotes included repairs that werent listed in Tescos survey. For example, 
both quotes listed damage to a roof window, kitchen electrics, spotlights, gutter, drainpipe, 
fascia and soffit, plasterboards, and side walls. At least one of the quotes said the extension 
roof should be replaced.
When Tesco wouldnt increase its offer, Miss T arranged for the repairs to be done and paid 
for this herself. This cost £7,275, excluding VAT.
Miss T brought her complaint to this service. She wants Tesco to cover the full cost of her 
repairs. She told us that, as well as the inconvenience, this was a very stressful situation as 
she was concerned about the safety of the electrics, especially with young children in the 
house.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. He said Tesco had 
accepted it was liable for the storm damage so he thought it should cover Miss Ts claim in 
full. He also thought Tesco should pay Miss T £100 to compensate her for delays in 
processing her claim.
Tesco disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 April 2023. I said:
Like most polices, Miss Ts cover only makes Tesco liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in her 
policy. 
Page 14 of her policy booklet shows shes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. 
Page 6 of the booklet defines a storm as: A single violent weather event with wind speeds 
exceeding 55mph, and/or snowfall exceeding 30cm in depth within a 48 hour period, and/or 
torrential rainfall at the rate of at least 25mm per hour. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
First, Miss T reported the damage the day after storm Eunice hit the UK. This was the 
second named storm in the space of a few days after storm Dudley. Both storms were 
typified by extremely strong winds. Gusts of up to 60mph were recorded by the weather 
station closest to Miss Ts home. So Im satisfied that the weather conditions met the policy 
definition of a storm. Tesco hasnt disputed this.
Second, I think most people would agree that dislodged tiles, damaged roofs, and water 
getting into a home would be consistent with storm damage.
That means the third question is key: were the storm conditions the main cause of the 
damage?
Put simply, Tesco doesnt think the storm caused all the damage in Miss Ts claim. Miss T 
had begun a new extension to her home. Tescos surveyor thinks some of the damage was 
likely caused by Miss Ts builders. 
Ive looked at the surveyors report, including his photos. This lists only relatively minor 
damage to three areas of Miss Ts home:
The main roof: tiles have cracked and come loose in places on the rear elevation 
with the tile debris being in the gutter. Relevant access equipment will be required.
The roof of the existing kitchen extension: several cracked tiles are evident in 
various areas of the roof and will require new tiles being installed where required.
The kitchen interior: the ceiling and walls are water stained and will require treating 
and painting in full.
However, I think the photos show other damage that isnt covered in the report. For example, 
I can see damage to at least one of the two windows in the extension roof as well as water 
damage around the kitchen spotlights. 
Thats consistent with what Miss T reported when she made her claim. In her first call on 19 
February 2022, she told Tescos agent that water was coming through a damaged roof 
window, affecting the electrics and spotlights. During her second call on 4 March, she listed 
the repairs her builders had quoted for. This included the damage Ive set out above, as well 
as to plasterboards, side walls, gutter, drainpipe, and fascia/soffit.
Tescos surveyor didnt visit Miss Ts home until 17 March, so would have been aware of the 
scope of Miss Ts claim. Given this, I might reasonably have expected the report to cover the 
damage shed highlighted. For example, in both calls Miss T said the kitchen electrics were 
damaged. The surveyors photos show significant water staining on the kitchen walls and 
around the spotlights, but his report doesnt mention the electrics at all. Similarly, Miss T told 
Tesco both quotes highlighted damage to the fascia and soffit, but the report doesnt 
mention this either.
We asked Tesco about this. It told us its surveyor found the lights were working perfectly 
fine when he visited. And it said the damage to the fascia and soffit wasnt related to the claim but was instead related to the new extension Miss T was having built.
Im not persuaded by this. Miss T was clear that there was a problem with the electrics when 
she reported the damage and told us she was afraid to turn on the lights. She highlighted 
this when she called Tesco to discuss her quotes. Her builders final invoice shows he had to 
repair the electrics. The photos show a damaged fascia on the left side of the kitchen 
extension, well away from the new extension. Its not clear to me how the new building work 
would have caused this. And I dont understand why the report doesnt mention the obvious 
damage to the roof window, where Miss T believed the main leak was coming from.
Having said all of that, I need to decide whether the storm was the main cause of damage. I 
agree with the surveyor that the cracked tiles on the extension roof were likely caused by 
roof tiles falling from the main roof. Its possible this is also how the roof window was 
damaged. 
However, the photos seem to show considerable wear to the extension roof that isnt 
consistent with storm damage. I also think that if the storm caused such severe damage to 
the extension roof that meant it had to be replaced, Id see more significant damage to the 
main roof. However, only a small number of roof tiles were dislodged. I also note Miss Ts 
initial call where she believed the leak was coming from the roof window, rather than through 
the roof itself. While I have concerns about gaps in the surveyors report, I think its important 
to note that he saw no reason for the extension roof to be replaced. 
I think the rest of the work set out in Miss Ts builders final invoice looks consistent with 
repairs to the damage seen in the surveyors photos.
Given this, I think Tesco should cover all of Miss Ts repairs except the cost of replacing the 
kitchen extension roof. Miss Ts builders final invoice doesnt itemise the cost of each repair. 
So Id like both parties to respond to this provisional decision with an estimate of what the 
replacement roof alone cost, and to be clear whether their estimate includes VAT or not. 
For the reasons above, I dont think Tescos settlement offer was fair. I think it should 
increase its offer. For the avoidance of doubt, Tesco can deduct Miss Ts excess from its 
share of the costs.
Theres one more thing for me to consider. I agree with our investigator that Tescos 
handling of Miss Ts claim caused her distress. Its apparent from reading Tescos internal 
notes of the claim and listening to calls that Miss T told Tesco she had young children and 
was afraid to use the electrics in her kitchen. I can also see that Tesco had the surveyors 
report for more than two weeks but hadnt called Miss T to discuss it. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Tescos handling of Miss Ts claim was adequate. I 
think Tesco should pay her £250 to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T told us she was happy with my provisional decision. She sent us a quote from her 
builder showing the cost of replacing the extension roof was £1,250, excluding VAT.
Tescos estimate for the cost of the replacement roof was £1,008.60, excluding VAT. It also 
said:
It doesnt think it should pay for a new roof window as this was part of the extension 
roof.It asked to see Miss Ts full invoice and breakdown of what was repaired so we can 
agree that we would be paying for only the agreed damaged parts of the property.
It would have covered some of the items at the start of the claim so will need to take 
account of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought Tesco should cover all repairs except the cost 
of replacing the kitchen extension roof. Tesco said the new roof window shouldnt be 
covered but didnt provide any new evidence to support this. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the cracked tiles and damaged window on the kitchen 
extension roof are consistent with storm damage. Miss Ts builders invoice shows that he 
repaired the flashing around the roof extension windows as well as replace the 
damaged/missing parts of frame around one of them. Im satisfied that these were 
reasonable repairs given the storm damage evident in the surveyors photos and Tesco is 
liable for them. Thats a separate issue from whether it should pay for the extension roof to 
be replaced. 
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision with an estimate of what the 
replacement roof alone cost, so that I could deduct this amount from any refund. Miss Ts 
builders estimate was £1,250, excluding VAT. Tescos was £1,008.60, also excluding VAT. I 
think these quotes are broadly similar, so Im happy to accept Miss Ts builders estimate 
given he carried out the work.
Tesco asked to review the builders invoice. We provided this and Tesco hasnt come back 
to us with any comments. As I said in my provisional decision: I think the rest of the work set 
out in Miss Ts builders final invoice looks consistent with repairs to the damage seen in the 
surveyors photos. Ive seen nothing to change my mind on this point.
Tesco says it covered some items at the start of the claim. As far as I can see, it only ever 
offered Miss T a cash settlement which Miss T rejected. I havent seen any evidence that it 
covered any costs during the claim. So I dont accept this point.
Having reviewed the case file again in full, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision. I think Tesco should pay the costs of all the claim related works  less the cost of 
the replacement kitchen roof extension  subject to Miss T providing appropriate 
receipts/proof of payment. For the avoidance of doubt, Tesco can deduct Miss Ts policy 
excess from this.
The full cost of repairs was £7,275 and Miss Ts builders estimate for the replacement roof 
was £1,250. Both exclude VAT. So I think a reasonable estimate for the cost of repairing the 
storm damage to Miss Ts home is £6,025 (excluding VAT). This is the amount I think Tesco 
should refund Miss T. It should also add interest to this amount at 8% simple per year from 
the date Miss T paid her builder to the date it settles the claim. If Miss T can show that she 
paid VAT, Tesco should refund this amount as well.
Finally, neither party commented on my proposed award to reflect the distress Tescos 
handling of the claim caused Miss T. I see no reason to change this.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I order Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
Refund Miss T £6,050, less the policy excess, subject to Miss T providing appropriate 
receipts/proof of payment. 
Add interest to this refund at 8% simple per year from the date she paid her builder to 
the date of settlement*.
If Miss T paid VAT, refund this sum, plus interest as above.
Pay Miss T £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim 
caused her.
*If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman