DRN-4494738
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited (AJ Bell) have not been able 
to complete the sale of an investment held within his AJ Bell self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) and transfer the proceeds to his SIPP held with Interactive Investor (II).
What happened
Having decided to transfer his pension from AJ Bell to II, Mr W was informed that some of 
the investments held within his AJ Bell pension could not be transferred to II. These 
investments would need to be sold with the funds then transferred as cash. Mr W could then 
reinvest the cash in alternative investments within the new II SIPP.
On 11 January 2023 Mr W contacted AJ Bell over the phone to give sell instructions on the 
three investments that could not be transferred.
Two of these transactions were completed correctly.
However, the third investment, into Purpose Silver Bullion EFT (SBT), could not be sold. It 
was discovered that AJ Bells custodian  Clearstream  could not sell the investments as 
they were held on the Toronto exchange and had a Canadian ISIN number. In addition, to 
facilitate the sale AJ Bell required a physical share certificate, something which they did not 
hold.
As the SBT investment could not be sold and the proceeds reinvested in his II SIPP, Mr W 
raised a complaint with AJ Bell.
AJ Bell issued their response to Mr Ws complaint on 27 February 2023. This explained that 
in 2018 AJ Bell changed its custodian, and during this process an administration error meant 
that the share certificate for the SBT investment was not obtained as it should have been. It 
was explained that AJ Bell were in the process of trying to source the certificate so the 
investment could be sold and offered £150 to cover the stress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W did not accept the response and referred his complaint to this service the following 
day.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint.
Given AJ Bell had already accepted an error in not ensuring they (or their chosen custodian) 
had the relevant share certificate, the investigator concentrated on what redress 
methodology would be appropriate.
Here it was recommended that AJ Bell should calculate the sale price of the SBT investment 
had it been sold on 11 January 2023 as instructed. From there the cash would have been 
transferred to II in March 2023 and reinvested. The hypothetical value of the monies had the 
SBT investment been sold in January 2023 and then reinvested with II from March 2023 
onwards should then be compared to the value of the SBT investment when it was actually 
sold. If the hypothetical value was higher than the actual value realised from the sale of the 
SBT investment, then a loss had occurred, and redress would be payable to Mr W.
Mr W agreed, however AJ Bell noted that as they still could not source a share certificate the 
recommended redress could take considerable time to complete. As such they offered an 
increased amount of £650 to cover the distress caused and any potential investment loss.
This offer was rejected by Mr W as he wanted an end to the situation.
Our investigator suggested AJ Bell complete the redress based on his original 
recommendations, whilst the shares could not actually be sold, a current value could be 
sourced and used to complete the redress calculation. Any resulting payment could be made 
to Mr W and to solve the issue around the missing share certificate, Mr W would then sign 
an undertaking transferring the shares to AJ Bell. This would allow Mr Ws full pension 
monies to be moved to II as per his wishes, with AJ Bell receiving the actual SBT sale 
proceeds once the certificate was sourced.
In response AJ Bell stated that due to the way in which the holdings are registered the 
completion of an undertaking was not an option that was available to them as a business. As 
such they suggested their updated offer of £650 was reconsidered.
Mr W did not agree and as no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision which stated:
As per the investigators findings the fact that AJ Bell are at fault for the missing share 
certificate and the delays in selling the SBT investment has already been accepted. As such 
I too have focussed on an appropriate way to resolve the issue.
Any redress instructions I give are intended to place the consumer into the position they 
would most likely now be in had a delay not occurred.
This is complicated in this case as whilst fault for the missing share certificate sits with AJ 
Bell, they are dependent on third parties to source this, with there being no evidence to 
suggest they are not making every effort to get the certificate and resolve the issue.
Overall, the redress recommendations made by our investigator are what I would normally 
expect to see where there has been a delay in completing a customers transaction request.
The redress instructions account for the fact that that value of the existing SBT investment 
will have changed since the original sell instruction in January 2023, and for the fact 
alternative investments would have been made by Mr W from March 2023 onwards.
I do however appreciate that the redress instructions given by our investigator assume that 
an appropriate share certificate can be sourced allowing the SBT investment to be sold. This 
process (having already taken over nine months with no resolution) could take an extended 
period of time with no known timescale as to when it could be completed.
As such it is reasonable for AJ Bell to suggest an alternative to try and bring a resolution to 
Mr Ws complaint.
Rather than seek to clarify the extent of any potential losses Mr W may face from being 
unable to sell and reinvest the proceeds of the SBT investment, AJ Bells offer is for a flat 
amount of £650 to cover the inconvenience caused and any potential investment losses that 
may have been incurred.
Given the SBT investment was worth around £3,000 in January 2023, the offer does represent a significant proportion of the value of the investment. As such, the investment 
would have to have suffered significant volatility to generate losses more than the offer 
made. That said, this offer also leaves the actual process of selling the SBT investment and 
transferring the cash to II unresolved for an unknown period of time.
There is no way for me to know at this stage whether the offer of £650 would provide more 
or less redress to Mr W than the calculations suggested by our investigator, however the 
issue with both the solutions suggested thus far is that they leave Mr W with an AJ Bell 
pension that he no longer wants.
I appreciate that AJ Bell have done all they can to resolve the situation and mitigate its 
impact on Mr W, with all charges on the AJ Bell pension suspended. I also appreciate that 
the value remaining within this pension is limited to the value of the SBT investment 
(whatever this may now be) with this being a small proportion of Mr Ws overall pension 
provision. However, I do not believe it is reasonable to expect Mr W to retain this pension 
indefinitely because of an AJ Bell error.
Overall, I have concluded that the redress recommendations put forward by our investigator 
are the fairest way or returning the value of Mr Ws pension to what it would otherwise have 
been. I am however making one addition to the redress proposed by our investigator.
The SBT investment is unable to be sold due to the unavailable share certificate, with AJ 
Bell accepting that this is their fault. Whilst the SBT investment does have a current value to 
those investors with all the relevant documentation, its effective value to Mr W without this 
documentation is zero. As such if the share certificate cannot be sourced within a 
reasonable timeframe, I have concluded the sale value of the SBT investment should be 
considered as nil within the redress calculation laid out by our investigator.
I have considered carefully that this will increase the cost of the redress to AJ Bell (although 
leave the end value to Mr W unaffected) as AJ Bell will in effect have to fund the current 
value of the unsaleable SBT investment. However, as above I do not consider it reasonable 
that Mr W be left holding the unwanted SIPP / investment indefinitely.
Additionally, to try and mitigate the end cost to AJ Bell our investigator has already 
recommended an undertaking be completed by Mr W which would transfer the SBT 
investment to AJ Bell. This would allow them to realise the sale value of the investment 
when such a sale becomes possible, offsetting some of the redress costs incurred. AJ Bell 
have already confirmed that this is not possible in this instance, however, again I do not 
consider it reasonable that this AJ Bell issue result in Mr W being left with an unwanted 
pension indefinitely.
However, in order to be fair to AJ Bell, I have concluded an additional amount of time should 
be allowed so the efforts to source the share certificate and sell the investment can continue.
I have concluded that an additional three months should be allowed for AJ Bell to try and 
source the documentation required. This additional three months would mean that AJ Bell 
would have been trying to rectify the issue and sell the SBT investment for over a year 
without success. If the sale cannot be completed within that timeframe, I consider Mr W will 
have waited long enough and the investment should be considered illiquid and of zero value 
at that time.
I appreciate that this does leave Mr W with an unwanted pension for a further period of time 
however do not believe that is unreasonable given the potential additional costs which AJ 
Bell may incur should the relevant paperwork not be sourced.Finally, I would note here that this outcome may not be what either party want at this time.
The above redress leaves the possibility of increased redress costs for AJ Bell and leave the 
situation unresolved for Mr W for another period of time.
However, I am of the opinion that it remains the fairest way to resolve the situation. Whilst Mr 
W must potentially wait another three months for a resolution, it ensures his pension will be 
returned to the correct value and whilst AJ Bell may face increased redress costs, the above 
solution allows them sufficient additional time to source the required paperwork to try and 
avoid such costs.
In addition to the above I asked both parties to provide any additional information they 
wanted me to consider by 21 November 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision above, both Mr W and AJ Bell have confirmed they 
accept the outcome reached. As such I am not making any changes to the provisional 
decision above.
The redress instructions below remain unchanged from those included in the provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in had the SBT investment been sold as requested.
Its not possible to say precisely what Mr W would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
What must AJ Bell do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, AJ Bell Asset Management Limited must:
Compare the actual value of the SBT investment when it is sold, with the notional value if 
it had been sold on 11 January 2023, and the cash transferred and reinvested in line with 
the assets held within the II SIPP. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, 
no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
If there is a loss, AJ Bell should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AJ Bell is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr W 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr W would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either AJ Bell or Mr W dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr W receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once 
any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Pay Mr W £150 to cover the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AJ Bell deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. AJ Bell should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SBT Still exists 
and liquid 
(although 
should be 
considered 
illiquid if the 
share 
certificate 
cannot be 
sourced)Notional 
performance of 
Mr Ws II SIPP.The date 
the cash 
element of 
the AJ Bell 
SIPP was 
transferred 
to IIDate of 
settlement  
to be 
determined 
based on 
when the 
SBT 
investment 
can be sold, 
or three 
months 
after the 
date of my 
final 
decision at 
which point 
the SBT 
investment 
should be 
considered 
of nil value.n/a
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SBT investment at the end date. If the 
relevant documentation cannot be sourced in line with the timescales noted above, then this 
should be set as nil value for the purposes of the redress calculation detailed.Fair value
This is the value of Mr Ws investment had it been sold on 11 January 2023, with the 
proceeds transferred and reinvested in the II SIPP until the end date. AJ Bell should request 
that II calculate this value.
Any additional sum that Mr W paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
AJ Bell totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
I dont see any reason why II wont be able to calculate a notional value, but if that turns out 
to be the case, AJ Bell will need to determine a fair value for Mr Ws investment instead, 
using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Index. The adjustments above also 
apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of 
the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If II is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the measure below is 
appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
The above redress methodology ensures Mr Ws pension is put as closely as possible 
into the position it would most likely have been in had the SBT investment been sellable 
when the original request was made, whilst still allowing AJ Bell additional time to source 
the missing paperwork that would allow the investment to be sold.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and require AJ Bell Asset Management Limited to complete 
the redress calculations as instructed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman