DRN-3919513
The complaint
Mr P complains Lowell Financial Ltd havent treated him fairly when asking him to repay his 
debt.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card with a company Ill refer to as C. Mr P had an outstanding balance 
with C, so they sold his account to a debt purchaser. That debt purchaser asked Lowell to 
collect on the outstanding debt  which was £1,048.33 at the time the account was sold in 
September 2014.
My understanding is Mr P made a complaint in June 2022 about various issues to Lowell 
following a mental health diagnosis. 
Lowell listed Mr Ps complaints as:
Letters issued in 2016 caused him distress and to feel threatened
Lowell had threatened him with a County Court Judgment (CCJ) when he had issues 
going on in his personal life
He was incorrectly told Lowell didnt send any CCJ letters when it seems Lowell did
The CCJ is stopping him from moving and having an impact on his health
As a result of his recent health diagnosis, he never should have been allowed to get 
into debt on his account with C, and with another credit card company who Ill refer to 
as V.
Our service can only consider what happened before the CCJ was issued, so although Ive 
listed out all of the issues Lowell say Mr P raised, the next paragraph only sets out the 
relevant information we can consider.
Lowell said in response to Mr Ps complaint points he initially set up a payment plan on 
16 January 2015 with the first payment made on 2 February 2015. They said between 2015-
2016 Mr P missed multiple payments. The last payment was received on 1 April 2016 and 
the last contact before the CCJ was issued was 1 April 2017. Lowell said each time Mr P 
made them aware he was having financial difficulties, they offered him time to receive free 
debt advice but he turned it down each time. They also placed the account on hold to allow 
him time to do this. But, after the hold ended, Lowell said Mr P didnt get in contact. Lowell 
said they used three different debt collectors to try and get in contact with Mr P  but still 
received no contact. So, it was then in August 2019 Lowell say they passed the matter on to 
their solicitors.
Lowell have explained the CCJ was granted in October 2019, but Mr Ps account with C is 
now closed, following his payment clearing the balance on 7 June 2022. Lowell added 
theyve also marked the CCJ as satisfied. And, in relation to the other credit card with V, a 
complaint about irresponsible lending was upheld, the account is closed, and the default has 
been removed from Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P didnt accept this answer from Lowell, so asked us to look into things.
Our Investigator explained what we could and couldnt consider in an email to both Mr P and 
Lowell on 5 December 2022  and both of them accepted this.
Following this, our Investigator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint and said Lowell didnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Mr P provided additional information, including explaining he was diagnosed with mental 
health conditions at the end of 2021, and hed been told that Lowell hadnt made reasonable 
adjustments as they should have done for him under the Equality Act 2010. Overall, he didnt 
agree with our Investigators outcome, and said Lowell never should have applied the CCJ 
because hed told them for years about his struggles. Mr P also said Lowell discriminated 
against him and his health struggles in the lead up to the CCJ being applied for.
As Mr P didnt accept our Investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly wanted to express my empathy for the extremely difficult situations I can see Mr P 
has experienced. I want him to know Ive read and considered everything hes shared with 
us about his health, including reading the reports from the medical professionals hes 
provided to our service.
I do though need to explain I can only uphold this complaint, and tell Lowell to pay 
compensation, if Im satisfied theyve done something wrong. And, for reasons Ill explain 
below, they havent done anything wrong.
Mr P has said Lowell didnt make reasonable adjustments for him as theyre required to 
under the Equality Act 2010. Like our Investigator, Ive taken this into account because its 
relevant law. But, my role is to decide cases on a fair and reasonable basis. So, if Mr P 
wants a decision that Lowell have breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to 
court.
If Mr P wants the CCJ to be removed, hed need to take this matter to court as well. A Judge 
decided a CCJ was appropriate to be granted against him, and our service doesnt have the 
power to remove the CCJ. Although Mr P has said this complaint isnt about getting the CCJ 
removed, he has also said things like the CCJ is stopping him from moving house which is 
important to him. So, I mention this so he knows what he needs to do if he wants to pursue 
these matters.
So, what Im considering is the period between September 2014 when Lowell took over 
Mr Ps account from C, up to August 2019 when Lowell passed the matter to their solicitors 
who ultimately obtained a CCJ.
Mr P has said the letters he received caused him distress and provided four specific letters 
to our service  of which three are from Lowell, and one from their solicitors. I cant consider 
the one from Lowells solicitors because it relates to the legal action in obtaining the CCJ but 
have looked carefully at the other three.The first two letters are in June and July 2016  explaining theyd like him to get in contact 
because theyve not heard from him. They explain as part of this what might happen if he 
doesnt get in contact. 
Ive seen from Lowells internal notes Mr P did call in July 2016 after that letter was issued  
and they have noted they placed a 30 day hold on the account. This means they were giving 
Mr P a chance to try and resolve things with the account and wouldnt contact him again for 
another 30 days.
The last letter I can consider is dated 3 September 2018 and says Mr Ps account remains 
unpaid, so they need to consider whether to take legal action.
All three letters are factual in nature. As well as reviewing these three letters Mr P has 
provided, Ive also considered all of the letters Lowell have sent our service  which is a lot 
of letters spanning the time the account has been with them. And, objectively, Ive found 
nothing to say Lowell have said anything unreasonable or inappropriate in their contacts with 
him based on what they knew about his circumstances at the time.
This is relevant because Mr P says Lowell should have done more for him as they knew he 
was struggling with anxiety and depression. 
Lowells notes do support this  they have recorded Mr P was having some real difficulties 
and in the phone note recorded in July 2016 have asked if hes seeing a doctor. They also 
suggested getting help from a free debt charity and giving him the 30-day hold I mentioned 
earlier.
This is replicated in other notes Ive seen, including April 2017 where they again 
recommended contacting a debt charity, and placing his account on a 30-day hold.
So, I dont question Mr Ps comments that Lowell knew he was having difficulties. I agree 
they knew he was. But overall theyve treated him fairly.
The matter itself has been with Lowell since September 2014  with the last payment they 
received April 2016. It then took more than three years before Lowell passed Mr Ps account 
over to their solicitors to pursue the matter through the courts. Ordinarily, wed expect to see 
financial businesses to seek out a CCJ far earlier than they did in Mr Ps case. This suggests 
Lowell have acted carefully with Mr Ps account by treating him differently and with care 
because of his health concerns, and none of the evidence Ive reviewed suggests otherwise.
I also want to explain we wouldnt expect a financial business to take no action against a 
consumer because of someones health conditions. The consumer has had the benefit of the 
money, and it wouldnt be fair to write the whole balance off. 
As I said at the start Mr P really does have my empathy, but I can only uphold this complaint 
if Lowell have done something wrong. And overall, Im satisfied theyve shown theyve 
treated Mr P fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. This means Im not telling 
Lowell to pay any compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman