DRN-3035146
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund him for transactions on his account
which he didnt authorise. HSBC registered his details with CIFAS the UKs fraud alert
service. He wants the funds refunded and the CIFAS marker removed.
His complaint is brought on his behalf by his mother who Ill refer to as Ms B.
What happened
Mr P had a deposit account and a current account with HSBC.
Mr P told us he kept his card and PIN in a purse. Mr P told us he lost his purse containing
his account details and card but because he didnt use his account much, he hadnt realised
the purse was lost. He didnt explain which specific account details were in the purse.
Mr P says that on 12 July 2018 £1,450 was taken out of his account without his
authorisation. The funds were transferred from his deposit account to his current account
and then spent mainly through Chip and PIN transactions and two currency transactions.
HSBC said that a transfer from Mr Ps savings account to his current account was made
using online banking on 12 July 2018.
A cheque for nearly £30,000 was paid into Mr Ps account on 8 August 2018. And Mr Ps
account was blocked.
HSBC have said that as a result of some fraudulent transactions on Mr Ps account they
closed the account on 28 August 2018 with immediate effect. They also recorded a CIFAS
marker against him.
Mr P complained to HSBC about the closure of his account and requested that his case be
reviewed. The complaint about the closure of the account has been dealt with by this service
already.
Mr P then came to our service complaining about the disputed transactions and the CIFAS
marker. We raised the complaint with HSBC.
HSBC said they blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account following a fraudulent cheque being
paid into the account. They said that despite trying to contact Mr P to discuss the credit in
more detail they had received no response. Following the review and investigation they had
decided to close the account and wrote to Mr P on 31 August 2018. HSBC have said that at
the time Mr P didnt mention the disputed transactions. They also said that the transaction
was a transfer from his savings account to his current account and there was no evidence
that Mr P had suffered a loss.
Mr P was unhappy with HSBCs response so asked our service to investigate.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said that Mr P had likely not
authorised the transactions. As some of the transactions were partly funded by an overdraft,
she thought HSBC should refund Mr P £44.62. She thought that Mr P shouldnt be refunded
anything else because he had been grossly negligent in keeping all his bank details
including his PIN with his card in a purse. He had lost this purse but hadnt reported it to
HSBC. She thought he had failed to keep his information secure.
In relation to the CIFAS marker she thought the bank hadnt acted fairly in registering the
marker. They had tried to contact Mr P as no response was received, they closed the
account and registered the marker. Our investigator had thought that HSBC didnt have
enough evidence that Mr P had carried out or was aware of the fraudulent activities or he
was aware that his account was being used for fraudulent purposes. She didnt think HSBC
had acted fairly when it registered the marker against Mr P.
HSBC provided the investigator with further information. The investigator issued a second
view changing the outcome she initially reached. On reflection she didnt think HSBC should
do anything. She thought Mr P had authorised the payments because he hadnt mentioned
any bank details being lost in phone calls to the bank. She thought that as Mr P had
contacted the bank after the fraudulent activity to try and add a new payee, his account
details cant have been lost. And she thought it was more likely that Mr P was aware of the
fraudulent activity on his account.
Mr P was unhappy with the view. He said he hadnt authorised the transactions and he didnt
know about the credit into his account.
Because Mr P didnt accept our investigators view the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
My provisional decision
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I issued a provisional decision in which I 
said:
Disputed transactions
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests
its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ps genuine card and PIN were
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is
not, on its own enough to enable HSBC to hold Mr P liable. So, I also need to think about
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr P consented to the disputed
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude Mr P authorised
the transactions. I say this because:
Mr P didnt report the disputed transactions to the bank until he came to our service
            in 2020. Mr P contacted the bank following the disputed transactions on three or
            more occasions and never mentioned them.
The transfer from his deposit account was carried out using online banking. Mr P had
gone into branch to set up his online banking on 10 July 2018. On the 12 July 2018
he contacted HSBC by phone to reset the code. The adviser confirmed online
banking was available for him to use. The transfer occurred and the funds were spent
from his current account on 12 and 13 July 2018. For this to be the fraudster they
would have needed to intercept Mr Ps card, PIN and online banking after the phone
call and before the funds were spent on the 12 and 13 July. Which leaves a verysmall period of time and seems unlikely. I also think it would be unusual to have his
online banking details in his purse.
Mr P received a letter from HSBC dated 23 July 2018 informing him that his account
had been overdrawn. I think Mr P must have known at that point that someone else
was using his account. The amount that was spent from his account was £1,450
which is a substantial amount of money, so I find it surprising he didnt contact the
bank at this time.
Mr P had multiple opportunities to inform HSBC of the loss of the money or the loss
of his card, but he didnt.
Because of this I think its more likely that Mr P made the transactions himself or authorised
a third party to do so. It follows I wont be asking HSBC to do anything about the Disputed
transactions.
CIFAS marker
The marker that HSBC have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P was guilty
of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
have entered Mr Ps account, whether they are retained or pass through the account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr P was deliberately
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent cheque and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate
payment.
However, a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand
their level of knowledge and intention.
I need to assess whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet this standard of proof 
and therefore, whether HSBC acted fairly in loading a CIFAS marker against Mr P.
For HSBC to have fairly loaded a CIFAS marker against Mr P they need to have evidence to
show that there was an attempt to deposit fraudulent funds into his account. Ive requested
evidence from HSBC to show that the cheques attempted to be deposited in August 2018
were fraudulent. Ive asked for HSBC to provide evidence that they received contact from the
paying bank and/or an explanation for why the cheques are fraudulent. However, Ive not
seen any evidence to satisfy me this is the case.
I appreciate that the transactions on Mr Ps account were very suspicious. I think that HSBC
may well be justified in suspecting that an identified financial crime has been committed,but that on its own isnt enough  without any proof from the sending/paying bank to say the 
cheques were fraudulent I cant fairly say that the CIFAS marker was correctly recorded.
HSBC must be able to provide clear, relevant and rigorous evidence. As HSBC havent been
able to provide me with such evidence, I dont think that HSBC have met the standard of
proof to register a CIFAS marker against Mr P. So, I am minded to ask HSBC to remove the
marker.
Ive considered the impact that this marker has had on Mr P. Mr P has told us that hes been
unable to open an account and have his own financial freedom and he couldnt get his
bursary paid. And I can imagine this would be very difficult at the start of someones career.
However, I am also aware that although the marker was registered in August 2018, Mr P
didnt raise the issue of the marker until he brought a case to our service in January 2020, so
I think the impact on him was small. I think its fair and reasonable for HSBC to compensate
Mr P with £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
In conclusion subject to any further representations, I am currently minded to find that HSBC 
have acted fairly in holding Mr P liable for the disputed transactions. However, HSBC should 
remove the CIFAS marker registered against Mr P and compensate him.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC responded to my decision by contacting the original bank who was able to provide 
confirmation that the cheques were fraudulent. HSBC then provided me with evidence that 
the cheques that were attempted to be paid into Mr Ps account were fraudulent. This was 
evidence from the sending bank that the cheques were drawn on an account that had been 
closed four years before the cheque was presented. 
I then contacted Ms B and made her aware of the new evidence. Ms B responded with the 
following comments:
She was concerned that HSBC was talking about £60,000 when originally, they were 
speaking about £ 29,000 to her - also Ms B said the cheques had been paid in three years 
ago so wasnt clear about why I mentioned four years. She also said that Mr P had tried to 
let the bank know about his card being lost. 
Now that everyone has had an opportunity to comment on the further evidence I can now go 
ahead and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in the light of HSBCs new evidence and I 
have taken into consideration Ms Bs comments.
I appreciate Ms B is trying to understand what went on with Mr Ps account. It must be quite 
distressing for her as Mr P has lost some of his life savings as a result of this situation. 
In response to Ms Bs submissions, I would like to clarify for Ms Bs benefit that the 
information I received from HSBC- is an email forwarded from the original bank and it confirms that the  two cheques which were attempted to be paid into Mr Ps account were 
fraudulent.
 
Ms B has said she was told it was only one cheque for £29,000 which was paid into her 
sons account. As I have mentioned two cheques for £29,000 were attempted to be paid into 
Mr Ps account in August 2018. Only one of them was successfully paid in. The cheques 
were drawn from an account that had been closed 4 years earlier. 
Fraud marker
Ive next moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker. 
I have previously set out the standard that the bank must meet but I set it out here again for 
Ms Bs benefit.
The marker that HSBC have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P is guilty of a 
fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ps account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
So, I need to consider whether HSBC have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker for misuse of facility with CIFAS. Having looked at all the information 
provided, Im satisfied they have, and I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from HSBC showing that another bank notified them that the 
money paid into Mr Ps account on 8 August 2018 was fraudulent.  
Mr P has explained he has no knowledge of the cheques being deposited into his 
account  however to deposit a cheque into Mr P's account youd need his debit 
card/account details etc  and Mr P didnt report his card lost or stolen at the time. 
Mr P must have been aware that someone else had access to his account. He 
received a letter on 23 July letting him know the account was overdrawn and he 
would have realised that his savings had been spent. He didnt contact the bank at 
the time which I would have expected him to. 
Ms B has said that Mr P tried to report his card stolen by going into branch and by 
calling the bank. The evidence Ive seen does not show this. I also think it very surprising a fraudster would attempt to deposit £60,000 into an 
account they werent confident theyd have access to.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that at the time the bank loaded the CIFAS 
marker they met the burden of proof required. In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the 
evidence provided by HSBC along with Mr Ps explanation. In doing so Im satisfied that 
Mr P was complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. And HSBC acted fairly in loading the 
marker. So, I wont be asking the bank to remove it. 
I know Ms B believes that HSBC has deliberately planned this against her son. This is a 
serious allegation. I appreciate that Ms B is upset, and I want to assure Ms B that Ive not 
seen any evidence to support this.
I have considered everything that Ms B has said, and It hasnt changed my position. 
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome is different from what was set out in my provisional 
decision. I am now satisfied that the bank has met the burden of proof to load a CIFAS 
marker against Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman