DRN-1717033
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FCA Automotive Services UK Limited, trading as Fiat Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Fiat Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was less than three years old, had been driven for 
about 17,000 miles and had a price of £18,449; 
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors;
Mr M had some minor issues with the car but then in July 2019 he noticed a lack of 
power and the engine management warning light was on and he was advised that 
the car needed a new turbo;
the turbo was replaced by a third party garage in August 2019 when the cars 
mileage was 26,132 and he paid the garage £2,587.49;
the garage says that the car was repaired correctly but soon after the turbo had been 
replaced the cars engine failed;
Mr M complained to Fiat Financial Services and it offered to contribute £2,000 to the 
cost of a replacement engine but it said that it doesnt feel that it should be liable for 
further repairs of the car because the turbo was replaced by an unapproved retailer 
and a manufacturers dealer has said that the intercooler wasnt properly emptied 
which has caused the engine failure;
the cars turbo failed when the car was less than four years old and had been driven 
for 26,132 miles  I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect the turbo on a car of 
that age and mileage and which cost £18,449 to fail;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was 
reasonable for Mr M to expect it to be and, for that reason, that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him; and
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr M to be 
allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Fiat Financial Services 
to end the hire purchase agreement and to collect the car from Mr M. The hire purchase 
agreement shows that Mr M made an advance payment of £5,425.52 for the car. I consider 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Fiat Financial Services to refund to Mr M any deposit 
that he paid for the car and to pay him £2,587.49 to reimburse him for the money that he 
paid for the turbo to be replaced (both with interest). 
Mr M hasnt been able to use the car since August 2019. I also consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Fiat Financial Services to refund to him any monthly payments that hes 
made under the agreement since the beginning of August 2019 (with interest). If its 
recorded any adverse information about the agreement on Mr Ms credit file, I consider that it 
should remove that information.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order FCA 
Automotive Services UK Limited, trading as Fiat Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr M  
both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr M any deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Pay £2,587.49 to Mr M to reimburse him for the money that he paid for the turbo to 
be replaced.
4. Refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since the 
beginning of August 2019.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Ensure that any adverse information about the agreement that it has recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file is removed.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Fiat Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Fiat Financial Services must give Mr M a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman