DRN-1774165
 
The complaint
Miss R complains about the level of service and the premium refund she received from 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited following a claim on her motor insurance policy. She 
wants £1,600 compensation.  
What happened
Miss R was involved in a non-fault accident and made a claim. Skyfire agreed that it had 
caused delays in the claim by appointing solicitors late and that it hadnt kept Miss R 
updated. Skyfire initially offered Miss R £150 compensation for this which it increased to 
£225. Skyfire told Miss R that her policy refund would be £43.23. It reviewed this and 
increased it by £8.04 and it offered to add interest to this amount from the date of 
cancellation. But Miss R was unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Skyfire 
had caused three months delay in appointing solicitors and this had caused a delay in 
closing the claim and a refund of Miss Rs policy excess. He also thought Skyfire could have 
updated Miss R more frequently.  But he thought Skyfires offer of compensation for this was 
fair and reasonable. He thought the calculation of the premium refund was correct.
Miss R replied that she felt shed paid for a service she hadnt received and this caused her 
significant inconvenience and stress.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been an upsetting and frustrating experience for Miss R. This was her 
first accident since passing her test about five years earlier. She said Skyfire said the 
accident clearly wasnt her fault. I can understand that she would want her claim progressed 
smoothly. Miss R has explained the effects the claim had on her finances and her health. I 
was sorry to hear about this. 
Skyfire has agreed that it could have provided Miss R with better service. It said it should 
have kept Miss R better informed and it had delayed appointing solicitors. It also agreed that 
it had calculated the refund of premium incorrectly. 
When a business makes mistakes as Skyfire agrees is has done here, then we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its possible to do so. We also consider the impact 
the mistakes had on the consumer.
Ive looked at the delays in the claim. I can see that Skyfire settled Miss Rs claim for the 
total loss of her car reasonably quickly. It later explained to Miss R that liability was still in 
dispute and set her expectations about how long it would take to settle this. I can understand 
that Miss R thought the incident was clearly not her fault. But Skyfire needed the other insurer to accept liability and to recover its losses in order to close her claim as non-fault. I 
think thats standard industry practice.
When liability wasnt accepted, Skyfire threatened legal action. But I can see that it delayed 
appointing solicitors by three months. I think this caused Miss R three months of avoidable 
stress, and I think Skyfire should reasonably compensate her for this. 
Miss R said Skyfire hadnt contacted the police or her witness to obtain statements after the 
accident. She said she had to contact the witness herself to ask him to sign a statement. 
Miss R was worried that this might prejudice her claim, but this wasnt the case. Skyfire said 
that as it was a clear non-fault claim then it wouldnt seek statements at the start of the 
claim. So whilst I appreciate that inconvenience  was caused, I cant see that this had an 
adverse impact on the claim.
Skyfire deducted the policy excess from its settlement to Miss R when it paid her claim. It 
told Miss R that she would need to recover this from the other drivers insurer. The policy 
excess is an uninsured loss and wed not expect an insurer to recover this directly. I can see 
that Skyfire later explained to Miss R how she should recover this, which she did. So I think 
thats fair and reasonable. I can understand that Miss R thought this caused her additional 
trouble, but I cant reasonably hold Skyfire responsible for this inconvenience. 
Miss R said shed had to manage the claim herself and therefore she wanted a refund of her 
years premium. I can see that Miss R had to make calls to chase up progress. And I can 
see that she was caused inconvenience. But I think any claim will result in some 
inconvenience. And I dont think a refund of her premium would be fair or reasonable as 
Miss R had benefit of her policy because Skyfire paid her claim for the cars total loss. 
Miss R said Skyfire told her that when her claim was closed, shed receive a refund of the 
additional premium shed paid due to the claim being open. Miss R said the rerated premium 
was very high and she couldnt afford it. So after three months she found cover elsewhere. 
But she wanted a refund for the extra shed paid for three months.
Ive looked at how Skyfire calculated the premium during this three months. I can see that it 
took into account that the policy renewed, that Miss R had an open claim and that she later 
changed her address and car. Its underwriters have provided evidence that shows how the 
policy increase was calculated. Skyfire agreed that the refund had been mis-calculated and 
agreed to refund the difference, with interest. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
Skyfire agreed to pay Miss R £225 in total compensation for the delay in the claim, for not 
keeping Miss R informed and for the error in the refund. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require Skyfire to increase 
its offer.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Miss R £225 (in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.   
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman