DRN-3941602
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) has wrongly 
charged a cash advance fee on a credit card transaction.
What happened
Mr S holds a credit card with Virgin. When he took the card out, Virgin defined cash 
advance in a way that did not include investment activity. Virgin says that it wrote to 
customers between June and July 2021, describing a change to the terms and conditions 
which would come into effect in August 2021. This included bringing investment activity, 
including binary trading, share trading and adding money to an investment account within 
the meaning of cash advances. The effect of this was that investment activity would attract a 
cash advance fee. 
Virgin says that this change was not enforced in August 2021, for reasons related to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. So it says that it wrote to customers again in June 2022 to remind 
customers of the change before it began to rely upon it. It says that it emailed Mr S such a 
reminder on 13 June 2022. The email says that the changes we were making to Cash 
Advance fees didnt happen at that time, and they will now be live from this month. The 
terms and conditions of the account provided that the agreement could be changed to Mr Ss 
disadvantage where Virgin gave him 30 days notice of that change.
On 27 June 2022, Mr S made a transaction adding money to an investment account. He 
says that he did so in order to see whether it would attract a cash advance fee, which it did 
not. On 29 June 2022, Mr S made a second, larger, transaction of the same type. A cash 
advance fee was charged.
Mr S says that the fee was unfair as it relied upon a change to the agreement made without 
the proper notice. He says that the relevant change to his agreement was not the change to 
the written terms in August 2021, but the change which occurred in June 2022. He says that 
this change was to his disadvantage and that both the relevant term of the agreement and 
general fairness require that he get proper notice of that. He says that the email of 13 June 
2022 did not give any date upon which the change would become effective, and that he was 
entitled to rely upon his test transaction of 27 June 2022 as indicating that the change had 
not come into effect.
Virgin says that the terms and conditions of the account provided that the agreement could 
be changed to Mr Ss disadvantage where Virgin gave him 30 days notice of that change. 
The combined effect of the notice in July 2021 and the reminder in June 2022, was that 
effective notice of the change to cash advance fees had been given. It says that the charge 
in relation to the 29 June 2022 payment was properly applied.
Our investigator thought that Virgin had given the necessary notice of the change. They 
thought that 30 days notice had been given of the change to the terms, and that it was not 
necessary to give 30 days notice of the change in practice. They did not think that Virgin 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr S did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There does not appear to be any dispute about whether the relevant transactions by Mr S 
amount to investment activity within the meaning of the terms of the card. I am satisfied that 
that Virgin was entitled to treat the transactions in this way and that it has done so fairly. So 
what Ive focused on in this decision is whether Mr S was provided sufficient notice of the 
fact that Virgin would treat them this way.
Virgin cant provide the exact email which was sent to Mr S in June or July 2021. Instead, its 
provided a template of what it says would have been sent to all affected customers, including 
Mr S. I have considered the email address which has been used by Virgin for Mr S and can 
see that it is the same one which he provided to this service. In the circumstances, I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that he was provided with proper notice of the change 
to the terms and conditions which came into effect on 5 August 2021.
Mr S argues that the wording of the agreement means that, in effect, Virgin should also have 
provided 30 days notice of the change that it made in June 2022 to start applying cash 
advance charges when previously it hadnt. But I think that the terms of the account are clear 
that the relevant section refers to changes to the agreement. The change Virgin made in 
June 2022 wasnt a change to the agreement though  that change took place in 2021 and 
Im satisfied that Virgin notified Mr S of that.
That being said, it would have been good practice to have provided Mr S reasonable notice 
that while it may not have applied cash advances to investment transactions  it would now 
be doing so. I think that the email of 13 June 2022 provided this. While it did not give a 
specific date from which Virgin would begin to rely upon the change to the terms, it told Mr S 
that it would do so that same month. So I think Mr S was on notice that any payment he 
made in June 2022 carried an increased risk of attracting the new charges.
I understand Mr Ss point that he made his transaction on 27 June as a test to see if a 
payment was applied. When it wasnt, he then made another similar payment two days later 
and was surprised that a fee was applied. But I think the email Virgin sent was clear that in 
June 2022, it would and could start applying fees for the type of transaction Mr S wanted to 
make. He made the payments two weeks after the date of that email. And if Mr S was 
unclear as to what the situation was, or wanted to know more specifics about the date from 
which fees would be applied, then he could have contacted Virgin to ask.
So, I think Virgin has applied the fee fairly, in line with the notices and messages it sent.  
That means I dont think its acted unfairly or unreasonably here and so I wont be asking it to 
pay back the fee it applied, or compensation in the way Mr S wants. 
Mr S has also mentioned that Virgin should pay him compensation for Virgins failure to 
respond to him in a timely manner. Our investigator has explained why we cant consider 
complaint handling as a separate activity under our rules. But I note that Virgin itself 
acknowledged this in its final response and offered Mr S £50 because of this. As Im not 
telling Virgin to do anymore here  Mr S is free to contact it if hed now like to accept this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman