DRN-3654572
The complaint
Miss D complains about a loan given to her by 1Plus1 Loans Limited.
What happened
In 2018, Miss D applied for a loan of £6,000 from 1Plus1 to consolidate other debts. This 
was declined but 1Plus1 offered her £4,000 instead for the same purpose. Miss D accepted 
that, and the loan was drawn on 2 May 2018. Miss D complains that the loan was 
unaffordable for her from the outset. She feels if 1Plus1 had carried out sufficient checks on 
her application, it ought to have refused to lend to her.
1Plus1 says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its usual process 
based on the information Miss D provided. It had no concerns about her ability to afford the 
loan. Miss D disagreed and referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said some information relating to 
expenditure recorded by 1Plus1 on the application differed from that given by Miss D. Our 
investigator noted two County Court Judgements (CCJs) and a default on Miss Ds credit file 
which shed said were all relating to payday loans from a long time ago. But the default was 
actually quite recent, and the account had been in an arrangement before defaulting 
following a sustained period of arrears. Miss D also had recent arrears on other accounts all 
within the last 12 months. Our investigator saw that during its assessment of the application, 
1Plus1 recorded debts of less than £600. She noted the new loan would be increasing Miss 
Ds indebtedness. Our investigator felt 1Plus1 ought to have realised Miss D would be 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the new loan.
Miss D accepted what our investigator said, but 1Plus1 didnt. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator but for further reasons. 
Ive explained my findings to 1Plus1 informally and asked it to make an offer to Miss D or 
explain why it doesnt think it should do so. It has not responded so I see no reason to depart 
from those findings and am setting out my formal decision now.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high-cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding Miss Ds complaint.
1Plus1 needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Miss D irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did 1Plus1 carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss D was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision?
Did 1Plus1 act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other way?
Its not about 1Plus1 assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Miss D. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third 
party and the potential for 1Plus1 to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss D, doesnt alter or 
lessen the obligation. Lenders are required to ensure a loan can be repaid sustainably by the 
borrower; that is, they should be able to repay the credit without undue difficulty, while being 
able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
There is no set list of checks that 1Plus1 had to do, but it could take into account several 
different things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly 
repayments and the overall circumstances of Miss D.
Did 1Plus1 carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
For the reasons explained by our investigator and outlined earlier, I dont think 1Plus1 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Ds application. It was clear that 
Miss D had suffered financially in the past leading to the CCJs and more recently, given the 
default and other arrears that were apparent on her credit file. There were clear signs that 
she was beginning to become under financial pressure.
Miss D applied for £6,000 to repay other debts. But 1Plus1 had only identified borrowing 
amounting to £600 or so. It seems likely therefore that Miss D was looking to increase her 
indebtedness. But 1Plus1 declined the initial request  albeit due to concerns it had 
regarding her guarantors ability to repay that facility rather than Miss Ds. But as we know it 
agreed to lend £4,000. As it doesnt appear to have identified what Miss D wished to repay, 
it's not clear that £4,000 would have been enough to resolve the current pressures she was 
facing. In the circumstances, I think 1Plus1 ought to have asked further questions of Miss D 
to ensure the loan was sustainable.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
There is no set list of checks a lender has to do, but in these circumstances, I think 1Plus1 
ought to have asked further questions to identify the extent of the difficulties Miss D was 
beginning to go through. It could have done this by, for example, asking to see some of her 
bank statements to enable it to get a better understanding of her situation. I have done so to 
find out what 1Plus1 would have seen had it asked at the time.
Looking at the statements, it is clear there are a lot of gambling type transactions which were 
increasing in volume and value. The statement I have, runs from 14 February to 
11 May 2018 (the loan was drawn on 2 May 2018 and can be seen on the statement).
From 14 February 2018 to the end of that month, these transactions totalled £108. For the 
month of March 2018, they totalled £1,539 which is more than Miss D's monthly income. 
They stepped up again in April 2018 with £2,725 of transactions for that month.
While of course, Miss D is free to spend her money as she wishes, the transactions do not 
indicate someone who is in control of their finances. And further, based on the numbers 
provided by 1Plus1, she was looking to significantly increase her indebtedness. So the situation strikes me as one in which Miss D was cash hungry. While the statements show 
Miss D did receive some winnings, these can't be relied on to demonstrate the ability to 
repay the loan sustainably.
Did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision?
I think 1Plus1 ought to have made further checks on Miss Ds circumstances, and Ive 
explained what it might have found had it done so. If it had carried out further checks, I think 
it ought to have reached the conclusion that Miss D would have been unlikely to be able to 
repay the loan sustainably. It follows that I dont think 1Plus1 reached a fair decision to lend 
to her.
Did 1Plus1 act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think 1Plus1 has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss D in some other way.
But I do think 1Plus1 should have refused to lend to Miss D, so Im upholding her complaint.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that means putting Miss D in the position she would be in if she hadnt been 
given the loan. But Miss D was given the loan and used the money. So, I think 1Plus1 
should:
Calculate the total amount Miss D received from 1Plus1 and deduct from that figure 
the repayments she made to the loan.
oIf this results in Miss D having repaid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded to her. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement.*
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Miss D to pay, 1Plus1 
should let Miss D know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, 
affordable payment plan with her. I remind 1Plus1 of its obligation to treat 
customers fairly.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ds credit file regarding the loan.
*If 1Plus1 considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should put things right 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Richard HaleOmbudsman