DRN-1699953
The complaint
Miss H and Mr M complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1994.
I know that when Miss H and Mr M took their mortgage out, Halifax was trading as the Leeds 
Permanent Building Society. Just to keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest 
of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss H and Mr M disagreed with 
that view. Through their representatives, they said they feared they wouldnt get the 
mortgage if they didnt agree to the PPI and that the Halifax representative made out that it 
was as important as buildings insurance. They also said the cover was not suitable for them 
and that Halifax didnt make the costs and benefits clear.
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I can see Miss H and Mr M feel strongly about their complaint. I want to assure them that I 
have thought at length about what theyve said. I am sorry to disappoint them, but Im afraid I 
havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that the PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what was 
said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Miss H and Mr M told us about it. And Ive also considered the electronic evidence 
thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Miss H and Mr M would have known the PPI was 
optional and that they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I appreciate what Miss H 
and Mr M said in respect of Halifax stressing the importance of PPI, but I dont think thats 
the same as it misrepresenting the cover as mandatory.
Ive treated this as an advised sale, so that means Halifax had to make sure the cover was 
suitable for Miss H and Mr Ms needs. I can see that when the cover was set up in 1994, the 
mortgage repayments would have been met in full for up to 12 months if Mr M became 
unwell or if he lost his job. It was later amended in 1996 and set up so that both Miss H and 
Mr M were covered for 50% each. 
Looking at what Miss H and Mr M told us about their sick pay, I think the PPI would have 
lasted for longer than what theyd have received at work. I appreciate they told us they had 
some other insurance policies, but I think those policies would have paid out in different 
circumstances to the PPI. 
Miss H and Mr M also told us that theyd inherited some heirlooms, which they could have 
sold to pay their mortgage. They said they could have relied on help from various family 
members in the event they ran into financial difficulty. With a PPI policy, I think Miss H and 
Mr M would have been able to retain their inheritance without having to sell it. And in any 
event, it is unclear how long that sales process would have taken. I do very much appreciate 
that it would have also been the intention of Miss H and Mr Ms family members to assist if 
they ran into financial trouble. But theres no guarantee that help would have been available 
to Miss H and Mr M as and when they needed it. 
I dont think Miss H and Mr M would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions 
about medical conditions. And I havent seen anything that would have stopped them from 
being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. It is important for me to stress that 
this loan was secured on their home. So if they fell behind with the repayments, the 
consequences could have been significant, including the loss of their home.
Putting all of these things together, I think the PPI probably was suitable for Miss H and Mr 
Ms needs. 
Halifax still had to give Miss H and Mr M enough information about the cover so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was right for them. Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Miss 
H and Mr M everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how PPI could have been 
helpful at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if they were out of work. So I 
dont think more or better information would have caused Miss H and Mr M to act differently. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Miss H and Mr M, but for the reasons set out 
above, I havent upheld their complaint. I dont need to tell Halifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman