DRN-2481219
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that a holiday points product, financed by a loan to them from 
Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), was misrepresented and mis-sold to them, and that 
Shawbrook should refund to them the money they have paid. They bring this complaint 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). They are represented in bringing 
this complaint by a company Ill refer to as B.
What happened
In 2002, Mrs H and Mr H entered into a holiday points arrangement with a company Ill call 
R. They paid £6,400 for their points.
They made use of their points over the years to arrange holiday accommodation but by 2015 
had become dissatisfied with the arrangement, principally because of:
increasing maintenance fees;
lack of availability when they wanted to take holidays; and
inability to sell their points.
They say that in July 2015 a representative of R told them the only way to get out of the 
arrangement was to buy into a different fractional points arrangement R operated. They went 
to a lengthy presentation, at the conclusion of which they agreed to buy fractional points 
linked to two properties at a total cost of £10,500. Shawbrook provided a loan of this amount 
repayable by instalments over 10 years.
Mrs H and Mr H made use of their fractional points until December 2018. However, they then 
complained to Shawbrook, through B, about this product. They said lack of availability made 
booking accommodation difficult. They also said it had been mis-sold to them, amongst other 
things as an investment for their children. They wanted Shawbrook to refund to them what 
they had paid.
Shawbrook didnt accept their complaint. It said they had experience of this type of holiday 
points arrangement with R since 2002, and so would have been familiar with how the 
presentation would be made, and how lengthy it was likely to be. But they could have left at 
any time.
R said the documentation they signed explained clearly how the arrangement and the loan 
would work, and that they had a 14 day cooling off period within which they could cancel the 
arrangements without any cost if they were unhappy with anything. There was nothing to 
suggest they had ever attempted to do so.
R said the documentation made it clear that the arrangement was for a fixed period of 15 
years. At the end of this period, the properties to which the respective points were linked 
would be sold and any net sale proceeds would be distributed to entitled points holders. 
However, the documents made it very clear the arrangement should not be viewed as an 
investment, but as a way of providing holidays. The wording of the documents also 
contradicted the recollection of Mrs H and Mr H about what they were told at the 
presentation about other aspects of the arrangement. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Having considered 
the documentation provided to Mrs H and Mr H, he said this was in places ticked manually 
by them by way of acknowledgement, and contradicted their recollection of what they were 
told in the presentation. He said the sales aids used by R in such presentations didnt 
support their recollections of what would have been said.
The adjudicator said he hadnt seen sufficient evidence to suggest the holiday points product 
was misrepresented in the ways suggested by Mrs and Mr H. So he didnt think Shawbrook 
had acted unfairly in deciding not to uphold their claim under section 75 of CCA.
He also considered that their previous dealings with R for this type of product, the 
documentation provided to them, and the cooling off period they were given meant he 
couldnt say there was an unfair relationship between them and Shawbrook for the purposes 
of section 140A of CCA so as to support their claim against Shawbrook.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
It isnt possible at this point in time to know exactly what was said to Mrs H and Mr H before 
they decided to enter into the fractional holiday points arrangement with R. However, Im not 
persuaded, on the evidence Ive seen, that the holiday points product was misrepresented to 
Mrs H and Mr H in the verbal presentation made to them, as they have suggested.
I think the documentation given to them explains the product clearly. Many of the most 
important points were set out separately in a tick sheet, and they have ticked all the boxes 
on the sheet. They had experience of how their previous holiday points arrangement with R 
had worked. And they had 14 days to cancel the arrangement if they had wished without 
cost to them.
On the evidence available, I dont think R has committed any breach of the terms of the 
arrangement for which Shawbrook would be liable under section 75. So I dont think 
Shawbrook acted unfairly in declining their claim for a refund under section 75.
For the reasons the adjudicator explained, I also dont think a court would consider there 
was an unfair relationship between Shawbrook and Mrs H and Mr H under section 140A of 
CCA which would lead it to order a refund by Shawbrook.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Shawbrook 
Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 Lennox Towers
Ombudsman