DRN-3891961
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2021 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had 
covered around 87000 miles.
Miss S experienced with the car. Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected. The report 
identified that the windscreen wipers werent operating correctly, and the reversing lights 
were faulty. The report concluded that the issues were due to wear and tear. Based on the 
report, Moneybarn didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I said that based on what Id 
seen, I was satisfied that there were faults with the car, as evidenced by the inspection 
report. I found that these faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality because the faults had 
occurred within the first 6 months and because they impacted on Miss Ss ability to drive the 
car safely. I also said that I didnt think a reasonable person would expect to be supplied with 
a car with faulty wipers and rear lights. I said that because Moneybarn had previously told 
Miss S that it would consider reimbursing the cost of repairs to the wipers and rear lights if 
Miss S obtained quotes, the fairest way to resolve the complaint would be for Moneybarn to 
arrange these repairs.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Having considered everything, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I have already reached. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Moneybarn No 1 Limited must arrange for the fault with the wipers and 
the rear lights to be repaired at no cost to Miss S and pay compensation of £150 to Miss S 
for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must take the steps 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman