DRN-4198217
The complaint
Miss C complains that AWP P&C SA cut her water supply pipe which led to significant water 
damage in her home. She wants AWP to cover the cost of repairs.
Any reference to AWP includes actions taken by its agents.
What happened
Miss C had home emergency insurance provided through her bank and underwritten by 
AWP. She explained that after finding water around the tank and her boiler stopped working, 
she claimed under the policy.
AWP visited on three occasions over the next four days. Miss C said it did nothing on the 
first visit but on the second visit it cut and capped one end of the water pipe. On her return 
home the following day, she found her house was flooding from the uncapped cut end of the 
water pipe. Miss C called AWP again. She said it attended and capped the pipe properly this 
time.
Miss C complained to AWP. She said the damage was caused by its negligence and she 
expected AWP to pay for the repairs.
AWP looked into her complaint, but it didnt accept responsibility. AWP said it capped the 
correct pipe, drained the cylinder, tested the pipe and there was no leak when it left. After 
looking into the cause of the leak, AWP said it was because of a faulty mixer tap which 
wasn't a foreseeable event.
Miss C brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. She said the evidence suggested that 
AWP had acted reasonably in capping the pipe and it was fair to rely on the expert report 
which stated that a mixer tap caused the subsequent leak. Our investigator didnt think AWP 
had done anything wrong.
Miss C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the detail of Miss Cs complaint about the leak and subsequent flooding of her 
home. Based on the evidence, its clear that each time AWP attended, it completed 
temporary work to stop the leak and told Miss C that her tank needed to be replaced. 
The policy Miss C had was for emergency cover, which meant AWP was not responsible for 
completing the permanent repair. This is explained in the policy booklet, and it specifically 
excludes cover for:
Replacing water tanks, hot-water cylinders, radiators or sanitary ware.
I understand Miss C thinks AWPs temporary repairs were faulty. AWP capped the water 
tank supply pipe and, after inspecting the work following Miss Cs complaint, its expert report 
confirmed that the temporary fix was completed correctly. Furthermore, the report explained 
that the only possible reason for the water moving up the pipe and leaking out wouldve been 
because of a problem with a mixer tap. AWP said there was no reason for it to foresee that 
eventuality.
AWPs explanation seems plausible, and Miss C hasnt provided any evidence which causes 
me to doubt the accuracy of its report.
Miss C said AWPs negligence caused the water damage to her home. Its not within my 
remit to determine negligence - only a court can do that. Instead, Ive looked at whether 
AWPs actions were reasonable in the circumstances.
AWPs responsibility as the provider of home emergency cover was addressing the 
immediate problem. Im satisfied thats what it did when it capped the water pipe, and it 
recommended that Miss C replace her tank. I dont think its reasonable to say AWP should 
have anticipated a further problem  with the mixer tap  which was unrelated to the initial 
issue. 
Overall, Im satisfied that AWP completed work in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, and theres no evidence to indicate that it caused further problems. Therefore, I see 
no reason to expect it to pay for the subsequent water damage.
AWP advised Miss C to claim under her home insurance, which I think was reasonable 
advice. She may now wish to consider that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman