The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Inter Partner Assistance SA has settled a claim hes made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S purchased a travel insurance policy from an insurance broker. The policy is 
underwritten by IPA, and its responsible for complaints relating to declined claims, so Ill 
refer to it throughout.
While on holiday, Mr S dropped and damaged his camcorder. He made a claim on the policy 
and IPA said that due to the age of the item, there was nothing to pay under the policy. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this so he complained to IPA. To settle the complaint, it agreed to 
pay him 20% of the original value of the claim less the policy excess of £50. So this meant 
Mr S received £70.
Mr S didnt think this was fair so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered 
all the evidence and concluded that IPA hadnt acted unfairly. He acknowledged that the 
policy didnt provide exact details of how wear and tear deductions were calculated on 
valuables. But he said IPA had applied a similar approach to wear and tear on other items 
that were defined in the policy and he considered this reasonable.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed so Ill explain my reasoning.
IPA is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the insurance policy and the terms 
and conditions of the policy will define what these things are. My role as an ombudsman is to 
decide whether IPA has acted within those terms and conditions while keeping in mind what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable.
What the policy says
In this case, theres no dispute that the camcorder was damaged and this was an insured 
event. So my starting point for this decision then is the terms and conditions of the policy. 
There are two terms I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. 
DRN-1323728The first relates to a policy limit and how IPA will treat the wear and tear and depreciation of 
items. Under Section D, Baggage
Whats covered:
We will pay you up to £1,500 for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to baggage or 
valuables. The amount payable in the event of a total loss, will be the value at todays prices 
less a deduction for wear and tear and depreciation (loss of value)". 
Its common in insurance policies of this nature to include a deduction for depreciation as 
many items experience a gradual decrease in value over a period of time. I consider this 
particularly true of electronic products which are often quickly superseded by new 
technology and become obsolete  over a relatively short time. 
The second is under the Significant features and benefits section D which details the 
following limits:
Baggage £1,500
Single article limit £200
Total for all valuables £200
From this, its clear the maximum IPA had to pay under a claim for a single item, such as Mr 
S camcorder, was £200. From this amount, it would then make a deduction for depreciation 
in line with the first clause above. 
What IPA paid under the claim
Mr S no longer has the receipt for the camcorder but IPA accepts his testimony that it 
originally cost £600.
Because the receipt isnt available, its not possible to say with certainty when Mr S 
purchased the camcorder. IPA said it was nine years ago; Mr S initially said seven years ago 
and then decided it was actually five years ago. IPA has since appeared to accept that Mr S 
purchased it five years ago.
IPA says that under this policy, when electronic items are five years or more old they are 
treated as having depreciated to the extent they no longer have a value. Overall, I dont think 
this is unreasonable given what Ive said above about how quickly electronic goods lose 
value. I note, this is also in line with the rate of depreciation detailed in the policy relating to 
other items
Because of this, IPA initially said it wouldnt pay anything for the camcorder under the claim. 
And given what Ive said above, Im satisfied it was acting within the policy terms when doing 
so.
However, after Mr S complained, IPA decided to increase its offer and agreed to pay 20% of 
the original value as a gesture of goodwill, subject to the deduction of the policy excess. So it 
actually paid him £70 using the following calculation:
The stated value of the camcorder £600
20% of this, which is £120
Less the excess of £50Giving a net figure of £70
Mr S doesnt think this is enough, but bearing in mind what I said above about IPAs initial 
approach to settling the claim, I think revised offer is fair and reasonable and more than is 
required under the policy.
Trouble and upset
Mr S says IPA provided him with an incorrect email address so he felt he had to complain by 
post and this meant he incurred extra costs. These included photocopying and postage 
costs, petrol and costs for making phone calls. He says IPA should cover these. 
Making a complaint will often involve an element of inconvenience and cost particularly if the 
complaint is made by post rather than email. Our investigator was correct in saying we 
wouldnt normally consider these without some proof of the costs incurred. I note Mr S hasnt 
provided any paperwork to substantiate his claim. In the absence of this, Im satisfied the 
£50 IPA has already paid Mr S is a fair way for it to recognise the inconvenience and 
increased cost he experienced.
In summary, I wont be asking IPA to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman