DRN-3503874
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product when he was on holiday in 
Mexico. Because he used his credit card, issued by Tesco Personal Finance PLC, to pay 
part of the purchase price, he says that he has a claim against it in the same way as he has 
a claim against the seller. 
Mr M is represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to as S. Where I 
refer to Mr Ms submissions, I include those made on his behalf.       
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M was on holiday with his wife in Cancun, Mexico. He says that they were 
required to attend a presentation, at the end of which they agreed to buy a timeshare 
product for US$17,000 from a Mexican company which Ill refer to as DSO. Most of the 
purchase price was funded with a loan arranged by DSO, but Mr M paid US$2,975 using his 
Tesco Bank credit card.   
In December 2019 S contacted Tesco Bank on behalf of Mr M. It said he had a number of 
concerns about the timeshare and the sale of it. In summary, S said:
Mr M had not realised that the timeshare was for a floating week, rather than a fixed 
week. Such contracts were null and void as a matter of EU law  as confirmed by a 
judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court.
Mr and Mrs M had not been able to book holidays. 
The situation was similar to that where a lender had had to seek Validation Order from 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Some clauses of the sale contract were unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms 
in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
Mr and Mrs M had been coerced into buying the timeshare. 
Insufficient credit checks had been carried out. 
Subsequently, Mr M said that he had asked about cancelling the timeshare a few days after 
he and Mrs M had taken it out. However, they only had five days in which to do so and would 
have needed to give notice at an address in Florida. Since they were in Mexico, they were 
unable to give notice in time. They tried to do so on their return to the UK, but emails simply 
bounced back. 
Tesco Bank did not accept that it was liable to Mr M, who then referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered what had happened. The investigator did 
not recommend that the complaint be upheld, and Mr M asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. 
I did that and issued a provisional decision in which I said:
As a general observation, I should mention that the complaint submitted on behalf of Mr M in 
many respects bears little relation even to facts which are not in dispute. So, for example:
There are numerous references to a loan agreement. But Mr Ms claim against Tesco 
Bank arises from a credit card account, not a loan taken out specifically in connection 
with the timeshare. 
They include references to  false representations  made by the broker relating to 
the financial impact of the regulated credit agreements  But the relevant regulated 
agreement here was the credit card agreement, a credit agreement which was already 
in place and the existence of which had nothing to do with DSO.  
There are also references to a different timeshare company and to its general practices.  
In my view, these are not minor or administrative issues. They go to the heart of the 
complaint and indicate that at least some issues have been raised without proper regard to 
the facts. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed by a debtor-credit-supplier agreement within section 12(b) or (c) are to 
be taken as made as agent for the creditor.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a creditor. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
In this case, the credit card payment financed (albeit only in part) the purchase of the 
timeshare. A credit card payment can fall within section 12(b) of the Consumer Credit Act 
and will generally do so if payment is taken by the supplier (rather than, say, by a trustee or 
agent). 
Tesco Bank said that the payee named on Mr Ms credit card was not DSO and that section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act did not therefore apply. It did however consider Mr Ms 
claims. 
In my view, it is not clear whether the payee was the same company as DSO, or a closely 
related company, or some other entity. The credit card statement includes the abbreviation 
DSO. If Tesco Bank wishes to argue that the transaction fell outside section 12(b) of the 
Consumer Credit Act, I would need to see more evidence of the identity of the payee  which 
it may be able to obtain through the card scheme, Mastercard. I have therefore considered 
what Mr M has said about the sale and subsequent events. 
Misrepresentation
As a matter of English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or 
of fact, made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the 
other party into the contract. 
The sale contract included, at clause 18, provisions about applicable law and jurisdiction. Clause 18 said that the parties would accept the jurisdiction of the courts and tribunals of 
Cancun, Quintana Roo for the enforcement and interpretation of the contract. In other words, 
it was subject to local law, not English law. 
I have seen no evidence to show whether local law recognises claims in misrepresentation 
in the same way that English law does, but I have considered this part of the complaint on 
the assumption that there are no material differences. It is of course open to both parties to 
provide evidence to the contrary, should they wish to do so.    
Mr M says that he was led to believe that he was buying a fixed week timeshare. I take that 
to mean that he would have an identified week in an identified property. But the contract he 
signed refers to a studio (flex) unit  in gold season. It does not identify a specific property 
or a numbered week. Mr M has not said which week he thought he bought, nor has he 
referred to any property in which he says he thought he bought an interest. I do not believe 
he was told he was buying a fixed week timeshare.  
Mr M says too that he was told it would be easy to book holidays, but he was not able to do 
so  because of lack of availability. I would say first of all that this is not entirely consistent 
with his case that he thought he had bought a fixed week. If that had been the case, 
availability would not have been an issue, since his accommodation and the week in which 
he could use it would have been fixed (unless he wanted to use an exchange scheme).
Be that as it may, Mr M has provided no evidence at all of any attempts he may have made 
to make use of the timeshare  either at the Cancun resort or any of its partner resorts. I 
note as well that he brought his complaint within a matter of months of buying the timeshare. 
He was not however eligible to use it until 2020. 
Mr M says as well that he has been unable to book accommodation through RCI, a well-
known timeshare exchange business, contrary to what he was told. Again, there is no 
evidence of any attempts to do so. In addition, however, there is no evidence that the 
timeshare contract included RCI membership. It included reference to resorts with which 
DSO had reciprocal arrangements, but not to RCI.  
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr M could demonstrate to a court that he has a 
claim for misrepresentation against DSO. It follows that it would not be reasonable of me to 
uphold this part of his complaint. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering with a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can consider 
any connected agreement. In this case, that could include the agreement for the sale and 
purchase of the timeshare. 
I note of course that this is not a case where Mr M took out a loan with Tesco Bank as a 
result of buying the timeshare, or in order to do so. He already had the credit card account. 
That is a matter I must take into account in considering what is fair and reasonable. 
In support of his claim that there was an unfair relationship here, Mr M relies on what he 
says are breaches of timeshare legislation  specifically EU Directive 2008/122/EC and The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 which enacts it. He has referred as well to Spanish legislation. 
As I have indicated, however, the timeshare contract was governed by local laws in Mexico. 
Neither the Directive nor the 2010 Timeshare Regulations applied. The seller was a 
company registered in Mexico, the agreement did not concern any property in the UK or the 
EEA, and the seller did not do business in the UK.  
S referred me as well to a case in which a lender had to seek a Validation Order from the 
FCA under section 26A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. That case 
concerned loans brokered by a business that was not authorised to carry out consumer 
credit activity. S has not suggested however that Tesco Bank was carrying on any business 
which it was not authorised to carry out. In any event, the Order was granted.  
S says too that some parts of the agreement were unfair within the meaning of UTCCR. By 
the time of the sale in this case, the relevant statute was the Consumer Rights Act 2015, 
although the provisions relating to unfair terms are broadly similar. But neither piece of 
legislation has any application to contracts governed by Mexican law. 
Mr M say he was coerced into signing the contract. He has not however provided any detail. 
He says too that he tried to cancel the contract. That did not form part of his initial complaint, 
even though he suggests that it was this which triggered his dissatisfaction with DSO. In any 
event, there is no evidence to support what he says  for example, by way of returned 
emails or other correspondence. 
Affordability      
Finally, S says that the lending was not affordable for Mr M. But any complaint of this type 
here would be a complaint that Tesco Bank did not properly assess affordability when setting 
or changing Mr Ms credit limit. S has provided no information about that. I am not persuaded 
that the credit limit was not properly assessed or that Mr M suffered any loss if it wasnt. 
I invited further submissions, but neither party had anything to add in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Tesco Bank nor Mr M has anything to add following my provisional decision, I do 
not believe there is any reason to change my conclusions. I stress however that I have 
nevertheless reviewed the case in full.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman