DRN-3635740
The complaint
Mr A complains about his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), 
considering a claim under his home insurance policy to be fraudulent. 
RSA use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to RSA includes 
these agents.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr A noticed water coming through a wall in his flat, connected to the 
bathroom. He contacted RSA, who told him to arrange for the leak to be traced and fixed, 
then to contact them again to progress his claim. Mr A contacted a maintenance company 
(M), who visited a couple of weeks later and located the leak under the shower tray in the 
bathroom. Mr A said they replaced a water trap under the shower tray. 
RSA then arranged for a firm (B) to send a surveyor to inspect the flat. He inspected the flat 
and found damp in the kitchen (as well as the hallway and bathroom). Bs report concluded 
the leak in the bathroom was due to failed sealant and grout around the shower. Based on 
this, B thought the claim should be declined as this would be considered a maintenance 
issue. B also advised Mr A to arrange for a leak detection company (L) to inspect the flat to 
check if there were any other leaks. L visited the flat and found a separate leak in the kitchen 
(in a pipe under the boiler). Mr A said he paid the cost of Ls report (£510) thinking it would 
be covered under his claim. B then visited the flat again and advised Mr A to arrange for the 
leaking pipe to be fixed and raise a second claim for the damage. Mr A said he arranged for 
M to fix the leak in the kitchen. 
RSA also appointed a firm (C) to investigate the claim. C interviewed Mr A and went through 
the sequence of events and the circumstances. Following this, C concluded Mr A had 
provided a false invoice from M and that he hadnt initially said a relative was a director of 
the firm. They also didnt think the repair work carried out on the shower could have taken 
place without damaging some tiles and renewing the sealant. Based on this, RSA then 
avoided Mr As policy from the date he provided the invoice from M, as well as declining his 
claim. Because they considered Mr A had acted fraudulently, RSA invoked a fraud exclusion 
in the policy which meant they retained the premiums hed paid in respect of the policy.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr A complained to RSA. On the issue of Mr As claim, 
they said when B visited the flat after Mr A said M had replaced the trap under the shower 
tray, they couldnt see any evidence the work had been carried out. RSA also said Ls report 
indicated a leak from around the shower. Based on these factors, RSA declined the claim. 
RSA also said that, following Cs investigation, it had come to light a false invoice from M 
had been provided by Mr A and that a relative of his was a director of M (something Mr A 
hadnt initially disclosed). RSA also said Mr A hadnt provided evidence of having paid for 
either Ms repair to the shower or Ls report. Based on this, RSA confirmed their decision to 
avoid the policy, referring to the fraud condition in the policy. They also confirmed the decline 
of the claim.
But RSA did uphold that part of Mr As complaint relating to their response times, meaning 
they hadnt responded to his complaint within the eight-week target to do so. RSA 
apologised and appreciated the delay would have been frustrating for Mr A.
Mr A then complained to this service, unhappy at how his claim had been handled by RSA 
and how theyd treated him. He maintained his claim wasnt fraudulent and was for a 
genuine escape of water that should be covered by his policy. Hed been living in a flat that 
was damp for over six months, which was unhealthy. He wanted RSA to accept his claim 
and for the reinstatement work to be carried out, returning the flat to normal. He insisted hed 
acted in accordance with what RSA had asked him to do in tracing and fixing the leaks. He 
also wanted reimbursement for the leak detection report and the work hed already paid for.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
He thought RSA had acted reasonably in declining the claim and avoiding the policy. He 
thought there was evidence Mr A had provided false information (about paying for work by M 
and for Ls report) and that the evidence indicated repair work on the shower trap hadnt 
been carried out as Mr A said it had. The investigator also thought RSA acted in accordance 
with the policys fraud condition, based on the available information and evidence available.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He maintained he hadnt acted fraudulently and hed followed the advice from 
RSA and B in having the shower leak fixed and in engaging L to provide a leak report. He 
thought the only issue was having his family members firm fix the shower leak. He also said 
hed had to pay a significant amount to have the reinstatement work carried out, which he 
thought his home insurance policy should have covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr A. 
The key issue in Mr As complaint is whether RSA acted fairly when they declined his claim 
and avoided his policy, invoking the fraud condition in his policy. 
Mr A says he followed the advice and process advised by RSA, in engaging M to attend and 
fix the bathroom leak and then engaging L to produce a leak detection report following Bs 
visit. RSA say Mr A provided false information about engaging M (initially claiming he didnt 
know them, before saying a relative was a director of the firm). RSA also say the evidence 
indicates repair work wasnt carried out on the shower as the invoice from M purported to 
show, and that Mr A couldnt provide proof that hed paid M for the work (as he initially said 
hed done).
Ive considered these points carefully. Ive considered the information and evidence 
available, including that provided by Mr A and RSA. Ive also considered the reports from B, 
M and C respectively (the latter including a call recording between Mr A and C). Based on 
this, Ive concluded RSA acted fairly and reasonably in invoking the fraud condition in the 
policy to avoid the policy (from the date of Mr A providing the first invoice from M) and 
declining the claim. As the policy was avoided from the date of Ms first invoice (April 2021) 
this meant that RSA declined the first claim and (by extension) wouldnt have considered any 
second claim.
 
I know this conclusion will be disappointing to Mr A, so Ill set out why Ive come to that 
conclusion.From the sequence of events, I think Mr A was told to engage a firm to inspect his flat for the 
leak he said was coming from the bathroom. The subsequent invoice from M refers to 
replacing the shower trap under the shower tray. However, Bs visit a week later didnt show 
any evidence this was likely to have been carried out, as the work would have meant 
removal of the shower tray. This would have been likely to damage the first row of tiles and 
mean replacement of the sealant and grouting around the tray. Looking at the photographs 
taken at the time of Bs visit (included in their report) they show mildew and mould on the 
sealant and no sign of it having been renewed (nor of any tiles replaced). And Ls report also 
indicates a leak from the shower door and recommends replacement of the shower seals. 
Based on this, I m persuaded by RSAs view the work wasnt carried out. 
Ive also noted Cs report (and RSAs final response) indicate inconsistences and 
discrepancies in the invoice provided for the work and that Mr A - having initially said he 
could provide proof of paying it  then confirms that he couldnt. And in the call recording 
between Mr A and C, Mr A confirms he didnt initially tell C that he had a relative who was a 
director at M. Whereas, he was aware of this at the time. So, Ive concluded Mr A provided 
misleading information to C (and hence to RSA).
In declining his claim and avoiding his policy, RSA cited a fraud condition in the policy. The 
condition cited by RSA in their final response includes the following extract:
 If fraud is established your insurer will:
i) Not pay any claim under this policy
ii) Cancel your cover without any return premium or void your policy from the start 
date
Given my conclusions above, and on the information and evidence available, Ive concluded 
RSA acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr As claim, avoiding his policy and retaining 
his premiums in accordance with the above policy condition.
Mr A also wanted to be reimbursed for the cost of the leak detection report and the work hed 
already paid for. However, as Ive concluded RSA acted fairly in avoiding his policy from the 
date of the false invoice and declining his claim, its reasonable for them not to reimburse Mr 
A for the cost of the leak detection report (even if hes paid for it) nor for any other work Mr A 
may have paid for.
Mr A complaint to this service also raised the issue of the time taken by RSA to respond to 
his complaint and that, consequently hed been left in a damp flat for six months.
Complaints handling itself isnt a regulated activity that falls within the remit of this service, 
but in considering Mr As complaint I have looked at those aspects that relate to the financial 
service provided by RSA (his home insurance policy and his claim under the policy) that is a 
regulated activity. While RSA didnt respond to Mr As complaints within the eight-week 
period that businesses are required to respond, citing to a backlog due to the COVIC-19 
Pandemic, they did apologise for the frustration the delay will have caused Mr A. While I can 
understand his frustration, the delay didnt affect the original decision to avoid his policy and 
decline his claim. As Ive concluded RSA acted reasonably in reaching that decision, I wont 
be asking them to take any further action regarding this aspect of Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr As complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman