DRN-2323890
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mrs S had a self-employed role in 
addition to her main occupation where she was permanently employed. And that this 
wouldve made it harder for her to claim if she lost her main job. 
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision in September explaining that I was not planning to uphold the 
complaint. This gave Mrs S and HSBC the opportunity to respond before I finalised my 
decision. 
HSBC said it had nothing further to add. Mrs S didnt reply by the deadline. As such, this 
final decision is in line with what I set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because:
Mrs S signed an application form specifically for the PPI. So, I think HSBC made Mrs S 
aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs S, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs S said she was self-employed as 
well as being a permanent employee. However, the information she provided to HSBC at 
the time indicates that all her income came from her permanent role. So, Im not 
persuaded that this wouldve affected her ability to make a claim if shed lost her job.
I think HSBC couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Mrs S would still have bought it.
Its possible HSBC didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs S 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
The regulators rules on high levels of commission and profit share dont apply here, as 
the dates of the mortgage dont fall within the required dates. So, I dont think HSBC 
needs to refund any commission or profit share it may have received. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman