DRN-4030011
The complaint
Mr H complains about Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declining a claim under his 
pet insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to Great Lakes include their agents who administer the policy.
In making his complaint, Mr H was supported by a representative. References to Mr H 
include his representative.
What happened
Mr H had a pet insurance policy with Great Lakes, to which he added his dog in March 2021. 
The dog had a history of mammary carcinoma (cancer), discovered in January 2021. The 
dog received treatment for the cancer and was given the all-clear in May 2021. A further 
mass was discovered and removed later the same year (around August 2021). Mr H didnt 
make a claim for the removal of the mass as he accepted it wouldnt be covered as it was a 
pre-existing condition. As part of the follow-up to the treatment, Mr H was advised to have 
the dog checked every three months. Around November 2021, a check found a  mass in the 
dogs lung (though it wasnt tested for cancer). A follow-up x-ray in January 2022 confirmed 
the mass wasnt significantly larger. But its presence in the dogs lung meant treatment 
options were limited, so Mr H was told to monitor the dogs condition.
In July 2022 the dog had a seizure, was prescribed medication, but had further seizures at 
the start of August. Scans were undertaken by a specialist vet that identified a mass on the 
dogs brain as well as multiple masses on the lungs. Given the seriousness of the dogs 
condition, sadly the dog had to be euthanised a few days later.
Mr H then lodged claims for the cost of treatment from his local vet (two bills of £314.34 and 
£400.25) and from the specialist vet that carried out the scans and diagnosis of its condition 
(£1,299.58). While aware that the policy wouldnt cover pre-existing conditions, Mr H thought 
that as he hadnt been provided with confirmation that the masses found were metastases, 
the claims wouldnt be classified as being for a pre-existing condition.
However, Great Lakes said they wouldnt accept the claims, saying the masses in the dogs 
lungs and brain to be metastases of the original mammary carcinoma. This was based on 
the vet saying the masses were suspected metastases. But they did make a payment of 
£102 in respect of the euthanasia costs of the dog (against the vet bill of £400.25).
Mr H was already unhappy about how long Great Lakes had taken to assess the claims and 
raised a complaint. Following the decline of his claims, the complaint was extended to 
include the decline.
Great Lakes didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said a pre-existing 
condition was defined as anything a pet had treatment for in the 24 months before the start 
of a policy. Great Lakes referred to the vets notes including a reference to the later mass 
being connected to mammary cancer recorded in January 2021. As the policy started in 
March 2021, the condition wasnt covered. Great Lakes also noted further information from 
the specialist vet in September 2022 saying they suspected all the metastases had come 
from the mammary carcinoma (although it remained possible they were a new, unrelated 
primary brain tumour). Further review by Great Lakes vet technical team confirmed decline 
of the claim as the information available pointed to the mammary carcinoma spreading 
(causing the masses in the lungs and brain). But Great Lakes did accept theyd fallen short 
over the time taken to reach their decision (to decline the claims) and apologised to Mr H.
Mr H then complained to this service. He wanted Great Lakes to reconsider their decline of 
his claims and accept them. He said a general principle of contract law was that ambiguity 
(in an insurance policy, as a contract) should be interpreted in favour of the policyholder. He 
considered there was ambiguity surrounding the pre-existing condition clause, given the vets 
were unable to confirm the dogs condition was a pre-existing condition (and ambiguity over 
the root cause of the mass on the dogs brain). And the specialist vet had said it was 
possible the brain masses were a new, unrelated primary brain tumour. He wanted Great 
Lakes to settle the vet bills directly with them (the bills of £314.34 and £1,299.58) and 
£298.25 to himself (the £400.25 bill less the payment of £102 already made). 
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Hs complaint, but following further information from Great 
Lakes, issued a second view not upholding the complaint. In the second view, he noted the 
dog had a history of mammary carcinoma that pre-dated Mr H adding the dog to the policy. 
When the dog experienced seizures in 2022, the issue was whether they were linked to the 
previous history. Having thought again about the balance of probabilities, given what Great 
Lakes had said about brain tumours being a commonly recognised spread from lung 
tumours, he concluded it would be unlikely the dog would have suffered the two tumours 
separately and unrelated. He noted the view of the referral surgeon that the condition was 
brain mass consistent with suspected spread of [the dogs] previously diagnosed cancer. 
And the diagnoses given were spread of the previously diagnosed cancer. Considering 
these factors and the evidence available, the investigator thought the likelihood of the dog 
suffering from unlinked cancers was low, so Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining the 
claim (by applying the pre-existing condition exclusion).
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, he said Great Lakes were declining the claim based on an 
assumption the masses in the dogs brain had metastasised from the masses discovered in 
its lungs. He thought basing the decline on an assumption was unfair, and he could find no 
publicly available research or other evidence to support Great Lakes view about the link 
between the two cancers. One piece of research he did find indicated the vast majority of 
intercranial tumours were primary  not secondary1. 
He also said the mass in the dogs lung wasnt tested for cancer, so this was an assumption 
based on x-ray result only. Also, the mass in the lung was discovered in November 2021 (so 
after the dog was added to the policy in March 2021). So it couldnt be considered a pre-
existing condition. The only way it could constitute a pre-existing condition would be if there 
was proof the masses in the lung were metastasised from the original mammary cancer for 
which the dog received treatment. So, he wanted clear and concise evidence to support this. 
The dog had been given the all-clear in May 2021 and again in September 2021. He also 
noted the specialist vets previous statement that it remained possible the further mass was 
a new, unrelated primary brain tumour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1 A retrospective survey on canine intracranial tumors between 2007 and 2017  PMC (nih.gov)Id first want to express my sympathy to Mr H for the loss of his dog, in what would have 
been very upsetting circumstances. It would have been very difficult for him to have his dog 
euthanised due to the seriousness of its condition. But my role here is to decide whether 
Great Lakes have acted fairly towards Mr H.
 
The key issue in Mr Hs complaint is whether Great Lakes acted fairly in declining his claim 
for treatment of his dog, on the grounds the tumours on the dogs brain and lungs were a 
pre-existing condition as they were linked to the dogs previous mammary carcinoma (which 
pre-dated the dog being added to the policy  so wouldnt be covered under the policy 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions. Mr H says the later tumours werent related to the 
mammary carcinoma and Great lakes were assuming they were. Mr H also points to the 
specialist vets view it was possible the brain masses were a new, primary tumour and to 
research indicating most intracranial tumours were primary (not secondary). Great Lakes 
point to other parts of the vets notes linking the later tumour to the earlier mammary 
carcinoma spreading.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
together with the supporting information and evidence, including the clinical history of Mr Hs 
dog and the views of the vets that treated the dog. Ill come on to consider that evidence and 
later, but first Ill consider what the terms and conditions of the policy and associated 
documents set out.
In their final response, Great Lakes refer to the definition of a pre-existing condition being 
anything a pet had treatment for in the 24 months before the start of a policy. The full 
definition is contained in the policy document:
When we say pre-existing condition we mean anything your pet has had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the last 24 months.
We consider advice to include anything a vet observed and recorded in your pets 
clinical history.
The policy document goes on to list things that arent covered under a section 5 Your cover 
which includes the following:
Pre-existing conditions
x  We will not pay for any costs relating to pre-existing conditions.
Similar wording appears in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which sets 
out the key features of the policy.
At this point Ive considered the point made by Mr H that a general principle of contract law is 
that ambiguity (in an insurance policy, as a contract) should be interpreted in favour of the 
policyholder. He considers there is ambiguity surrounding the pre-existing condition clause, 
given the vets were unable to confirm the dogs condition was a pre-existing condition (and 
ambiguity over the root cause of the mass on the dogs brain). As a general principle, I agree 
that ambiguity in a contract should be interpreted in favour of the party that didnt draft it (in 
the case of an insurance policy, as a contract, the policyholder). However, the issue in this 
complaint is whether Great Lakes have fairly applied the pre-existing condition clause (the 
exclusion set out above) fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of the dogs condition. 
So, its about whether the dog had a pre-existing condition  which is a different point, as Ill 
come on to. It isnt about the clarity of the wording in the policy, which I think clearly defines 
a pre-existing condition (and the wording of the exclusion). Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, which 
could reasonably be held to fall within the policy definition, and so whether Great Lakes 
acted fairly and reasonably in applying the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the 
claims. Ive carefully considered the notes from the vets concerned. In confirming their 
decline of the claims, Great Lakes refer to the following opinion from the specialist vet:
Diagnosis: intracranial mass consistent with suspected central nervous system 
metastasis (spread of the previously diagnosed cancer) thoracic masses consistent 
with suspected pulmonary metastasis (spread of the previously diagnosed cancer).
Ive also noted the following statement from the specialist vet, in reply to Great Lakes asking 
(following receipt of the dogs clinical history) whether the intercranial tumour (brain mass) 
was believed to be metastasised from the mammary tumour or the lung. 
I suspect all the metastases have come from the mammary carcinoma; however it 
also remains possible this is a new, primary brain tumour.
Mr H says supports his view the masses werent clearly linked to the previous mammary 
carcinoma (as well as the reference to suspected in the above statement).
In forming a conclusion, I recognise the nature of the dogs condition and the circumstances 
of the case mean it isnt possible to be definitive about the diagnosis and whether the later 
masses (tumours) were linked to the initial mammary carcinoma. So, given the 
circumstances, Ive considered what is the most likely position on the balance of 
probabilities.
Looking at the statements from the specialist vet, while they dont rule out the possibility the 
brain mass was a new, primary tumour, they indicate the specialist vet believes it is more 
likely than not the later masses came from the mammary carcinoma. Which would indicate 
that was the case on the balance of probabilities (which Is the criteria I apply in reaching a 
decision). Given the statements, I dont agree Great Lakes have made an assumption (as 
Mr H sees it) in declining the claim. And while Ive considered the piece of research referred 
to by Mr H, Im more persuaded by the evidence (including the specialist vets statements) 
about the specific circumstances of the case. 
Ive also considered the clinical history, noting the mammary carcinoma in January 2021, 
followed by removal of mammary masses in April 2021 and October 2021. The mass on the 
lung was found in January 2022. This also indicates a history of mammary carcinoma before 
the mass on the lung and (in August 2022) the mass on the brain.
So, taking all these points together, Ive concluded, on the balance of probabilities, the later 
masses (including the brain mass) are likely to have come from the mammary carcinoma. 
And as the mammary carcinoma occurred in January 2021, before the dog was added to the 
policy in March 2021 (and within 24 months of the seizures and discovery of the brain mass 
in August 2022) then it would be reasonable to see it as a pre-existing condition under the 
definition set out above. And given the policy wording and terms set out above, Im satisfied 
that this wouldnt be covered.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im persuaded 
Great Lakes have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. 
So, based on all these considerations, Ive concluded Great Lakes acted fairly to apply the 
pre-existing condition exclusion to decline Mr Hs claims.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman