DRN-1614987
 
Complaint
Miss H has complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
PDL Finance Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Miss H says she was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Miss H took out 3 loans from Mr Lender between March 2018 and May 
2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Hs borrowing with Mr Lender, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be 
upheld. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Hs complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Miss H and took account of what she herself said her income and expenditure was. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Mr Lender most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. But I also 
think these would have been proportionate for loans 1  3. I think these levels of checks, 
together with the income and expenditure details provided by Miss H herself, would have 
made those particular early loans appear affordable. 
I also note, for example, that Miss H paid loans 1 and 2 back quite quickly and before the 
due date. By loan 3, I therefore think Mr Lender would have thought it was appropriate to 
lend to her again and although it does seem that she may have run into financial trouble 
after this, Ive got no reason to think this would have been known at this point in time. 
In short, I think the checks carried out in this case were proportionate and Im afraid there 
isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct PDL Finance 
Limited to pay Miss H any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Appendix
loan date taken date repaid amount termhighest 
repayment
1 11/03/2018 13/03/2018 £300 3 months £152.80
2 15/03/2018 18/04/2018 £350 6 months £189.93
3 15/05/2018 21/09/2018 £250 3 months £120.57
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman