DRN-3551398
The complaint
Miss Ds complaint is about a refund of PPI premiums and the additional compensation St 
Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) offered to her for the way it handled her complaint. 
I know the PPI was sold to Miss D alongside a credit card with a third-party business. But 
her complaint is about the insurer, St Andrews. So I will refer to St Andrews for the rest of 
this decision, rather than the lender who supplied the credit card. 
What happened
Miss D told us that she took PPI out in or around 2002. She made two successful claims on 
the card with the most recent being in 2012 when she became a carer. She tried to claim 
again in July 2020 when one of her family members sadly died. She told us her claim was 
refused because she had not been in employment from 2012. 
Miss D complained because she felt she had paid for a policy for eight years for which she 
could not successfully claim. She said there were numerous customer service issues when 
she was trying to pursue her complaint. 
St Andrews initially said it would not refund Miss Ds premiums. It said it was up to her to 
cancel the PPI policy. Miss D then complained to this service. At that point, St Andrews 
offered to refund to her credit card all of the premiums she had paid for the PPI, along with 
8% simple interest. St Andrews also offered to pay £250 in recognition of the service issues 
it identified. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to acknowledge that I can see pursuing this complaint has caused Miss 
D some upset. I am very sorry to hear about the death of her family member. 
I have considered the issues Miss D raised at some length. Im sorry to disappoint her, but 
Im satisfied St Andrewss offer to her was fair. That means I havent upheld the complaint. 
Ill explain why below.
As I said above, Miss D made a claim on the PPI policy in 2012. She told us that she 
claimed after she became a carer. The basis of her claim isnt entirely clear to me. I cant 
see that becoming a carer is a condition of claim itself. Miss D said that St Andrews told her 
she couldnt have claimed again until she had been in work for at least six months. So it 
looks as though the basis of Miss Ds claim may have been because she because she lost 
her job. The parties seem to agree that Miss D was paid for the maximum of 12 months at 
that time. 
Ive checked the terms and conditions of the PPI policy. I dont think there was an issue 
around eligibility as such. I say this because in order to be eligible for the PPI policy, Miss D 
had to be in work when the policy started. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest Miss D 
was out of work at that time in 2002. 
The issue in this case is that there was an exclusion in the policy around returning to work 
after a successful claim had been made. In order to make a further unemployment claim, 
Miss D would have to return to work for six months. Miss Ds argument is that as she hadnt 
returned to work since the 2012 claim, St Andrews should not have continued to take her 
PPI premiums because it should have known she couldnt claim. I can see how Miss D has 
made that argument. But I dont think St Andrews would have reasonably known she was 
still out of work after it had paid for the maximum 12 months, or for how long she was out of 
work. 
It would not be unusual for a consumer to continue to pay for a PPI policy after the 
conclusion of a successful claim. That could be for various reasons. For example, if a person 
had developed a medical condition over the life of the PPI policy, they may not be able to 
claim if they cancel the cover and re-start it again because of the restrictions around pre-
existing medical conditions. Putting all of this together, I cant reasonably say St Andrews 
would have been on notice that Miss D had not returned to work for some time after the 
conclusion of her successful claim. 
I can see from paragraph 2.6 of the policys terms and conditions that St Andrews was not 
required to give Miss D a refund of any premium paid unless she was ineligible for cover at 
the start date. So its offer to refund the premiums she paid from January 2012, along with 
8% interest is probably more generous than I would expect. That means I cant reasonably 
tell it to increase the offer it made to Miss D in that regard. 
Additional compensation 
As I said above, I can see that pursuing this complaint when she was trying to come to terms 
with the death of a family member would have understandably caused Miss D distress. I can 
also see how it would have been inconvenient for her to make repeated calls to St Andrews 
to try and progress her claim. It was not until Miss D complained to this service that a 
substantive resolution was offered. I agree with Miss D that a payment to compensate her 
for that inconvenience would be appropriate in these circumstances. 
However, my role in determining how much it would be appropriate for St Andrews to 
compensate Miss D in these circumstances is not punitive. I have to consider the impact its 
mistakes had on Miss D. 
St Andrews paid Miss D 8% simple interest on top of the refund of her PPI premiums. The 
purpose of this interest is to compensate Miss D for the time she was out of pocket because 
of the PPI premiums. Putting that another way, Miss D didnt have the opportunity to use the 
money she paid for PPI how she chose whilst it was held by St Andrews. So the 8% interest 
is to compensate her for that. So the longer it took St Andrews to deal with her complaint, 
the more 8% interest it had to pay. I think that is a reasonable way to compensate Miss D for 
the delay.
As I said above, St Andrews offered to pay £250 to Miss D to compensate her for the service 
she received from it. This may also be more generous than I would usually expect. But as 
Miss D was having to negotiate these issues following the death of her family member, I 
think St Andrews offer is reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss D, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
It is not clear to me whether St Andrews has processed the refund to Miss D. I can see it 
offered to refund the PPI premiums directly to Miss Ds credit card account. It will have to 
make these payments if it hasnt already done so and Miss D accepts my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about St Andrews Insurance Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman