DRN-2838088
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled a claim on 
his household warranty policy and that it failed to make reasonable adjustments under the 
Equality Act 2010 during a phone call.
What happened
Mr S called D&G in September 2020 after experiencing problems with his shower. He says 
he was referred to the manufacturer who said he would have to provide a payment of £80 to 
arrange an inspection and potential repair. But he wasnt happy to do this, so he called D&G 
back. Mr S says the agent he spoke to left him on hold during the call and he was upset with 
the way he was spoken to. Mr S explained that he was disabled and asked the agent to 
make a reasonable adjustment under the Equality Act 2010 by arranging for a manager or 
the agent to call him back directly. But he says this didnt happen and the agent became 
challenging, so Mr S ended the call.
D&G says that Mr S shower equipment is still under a manufacturer warranty and its policy 
only covers accidental damage at this stage. It said the problem didnt sound like accidental 
damage, so it was correct to direct Mr S to the manufacturer. D&G spoke to the 
manufacturer who explained that the £80 is a pending payment which is taken in case the 
issue is not something covered under the guarantee  and this in the terms of the guarantee. 
But D&G recognised it had given Mr S poor service when hed called, so paid him £25 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was correct to direct Mr S to the 
manufacturer and didnt think D&G was responsible for the process or service from the 
manufacturer. She acknowledged that the service provided to Mr S during his phone call 
could have been better, but thought D&G had fairly compensated him for this.
Mr S didnt agree  so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
Before making a decision, I asked for further comments from Mr S on why he wasnt able to 
hold while the agent tried to speak to a colleague, and why this phone call was particularly 
difficult for him.  
He explained that:
The nature of his disability means there are times when he can manage quite well, 
but other times when he is in severe pain and despite his medication its very difficult 
for him.
On the date in question he was in a great deal of pain and distress. He explained to 
the call handler that he couldnt hold on the phone and repeatedly asked for a 
different way of communicating his concerns but his requests were ignored.
I also asked for further details from D&G about its arrangements for dealing with calls from
customers. D&G explained that:
It has seen an unprecedented rise in calls, which has meant having to adapt its usual 
processes. Combined with restrictions on staff who have had to work from home 
during the pandemic, this has had an impact on call waiting times.
If the agent had been working normally in the office, Mr S may not have been kept on 
hold as long.
Front line agents are not able to make outbound calls, and need permission from 
their team leader to transfer a customer directly through to the complaint team.
If Mr S had been passed through to complaints team he would have been given a 
complaint number and a direct line number for the complaints team. Its also likely he 
would have been given the opportunity of a call back.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
Mr S policy covers him for breakdown of the shower after the manufacturers guarantee 
ends, and for accidental damage during and after the manufacturers guarantee period. 
There are conditions and exclusions that apply to this cover. D&G will not be liable for any 
breakdown cost already covered by any manufacturers, suppliers or repairers guarantee or 
warranty on the product. Ive also looked at the Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) which provides a summary of the cover, as well as highlighting any significant or 
unusual terms. Under What is not insured?, it confirms that breakdown covered by another 
guarantee or warranty is not covered under this policy.
Mr S contacted D&G to after his shower had suffered a loss of water from the shower head 
and he also explained that prior to this, excess water continued to come out of the shower 
head once turned off. D&G directed Mr S to the manufacturer as it thought the issue was 
likely to be a breakdown, rather than accidental damage. Mr S says that when he called, 
either D&G didnt correctly understand the fault, or he may have failed to explain it correctly.
Ive listened to this call and note that Mr S said the shower had stopped working. The agent 
clarified what had happened and asked if it had just stopped working, which Mr S confirmed. 
So I think it was reasonable to consider this a mechanical breakdown issue rather than 
accidental damage. I know Mr S has since explained that he dropped the shower head and 
feels this might have been responsible for the problem. But this wasnt explained to D&G at 
the time, so I think it was reasonable to direct Mr S to the manufacturer.
Mr S says when he took out the policy, he wasnt provided with any terms and conditions. 
Weve been provided with a welcome letter sent to Mr S which provided the documents. The 
letter was correctly addressed to Mr S. So I wouldnt say its D&Gs fault if it didnt arrive. 
And if Mr S didnt contact D&G to say that he hadnt received the letter, it wouldnt have 
known it hadnt arrived.
I appreciate Mr S was unhappy with how the manufacturer handled things. But this isnt 
something I can hold D&G responsible for. D&G contacted the manufacturer who confirmed 
that the £80 was a pre-authorised payment and this was in its terms and conditions. The 
payment is taken after the visit and only if the fault wasnt covered under the breakdown 
guarantee, such as a plumbing or installation issue. D&G says that if the fault was due to 
accidental damage due to Mr S dropping the shower head, the manufacturer would have 
invoiced D&G at that point and the claim would have been dealt with. Mr S says it was never 
explained to him that hed have to pay £80 before an engineer came out, but these are the 
manufacturers terms and conditions.
Mr S has suggested that a fair resolution to this would be for D&G to send a replacement 
shower head without the need for an engineer to attend, as well as increasing the 
compensation for the service received. I dont think its reasonable to ask D&G to send a replacement shower head when neither D&G nor the manufacturer has inspected the 
shower. I think D&Gs exclusions are clear within the policy wording, so I dont think its fair 
to ask it to replace the shower head when it potentially isnt liable to do so.
Mr S says D&G breached the Equality Act by failing to make a reasonable adjustment for 
him. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account  given that its relevant law  but my role 
is to decide the complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. Its not for me to make a 
legal finding that D&G has breached the Equality Act 2010 and if Mr S wishes to have a 
decision about that, he would need to go court.
Having listened to the phone call, I accept it didnt go well. There were long periods of Mr S 
holding whilst the agent was checking with their manager and discussing his complaint. Mr S 
made it clear to D&G he was finding this difficult due to his disability and requested it make a 
reasonable adjustment by calling him back once a decision had been made. This was 
declined and I think the agent became frustrated with how the call was progressing. Mr S 
ended the call at that point and I can see he did then receive a call back with the outcome to 
the complaint.
Looking at the circumstances surrounding the phone call, I dont think D&G dealt with Mr S 
fairly and he has reiterated that the call caused him distress. Hes explained that the nature 
of his disability means there are times when he can manage quite well and times when he is 
in severe pain and its very difficult for him. On that particular day he was in a lot of pain. I 
appreciate that he didnt explain all of this on the call. But he did say he wouldnt be able to 
hold on for a long time, asked for a call back and said he was requesting this as an 
adjustment under the Equality Act in view of his disability..
For its part, D&G has explained that it had to change how it dealt with things as a result of an 
increase in calls, and restrictions due to staff working at home. I appreciate the impact of all 
this. But even allowing for that, I dont think it was fair for Mr S to be put in a position where a 
simple request for a call back couldnt be dealt with promptly. If the call handler needed 
consent from a manager to arrange a call back, he could have explained this more clearly.
Mr S was kept waiting for some time while it became increasingly difficult for him, with little 
indication of how long he would have to wait. The call handler said it wasnt possible for 
anyone to call back as they could only take inbound calls, Mr S would have to hang on while 
he tried to speak to his manager and if Mr S couldnt hold on there was nothing much he 
could do to help. In effect Mr S was told there was no way they could make any adjustment 
for him. This was very upsetting for him and I think the distress this caused could have been 
avoided.
 
D&G has acknowledged there were shortcomings in the service provided and paid £25 to
Mr S. Taking into account all the points set out above, I dont think thats enough to
adequately reflect the distress caused to Mr S. In my view a payment of £150 would be fair.
As D&G has already made a payment of £25, it should pay a further £125.
Replies to the provisional decision 
D&G accepted the provisional decision and had no further comments. Mr S also had nothing 
to add, other than saying he would like the compensation to be sent to him by cheque.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are no further points for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision and so it remains my view that D&G should pay the compensation of £125 to Mr S, 
for the reasons set out above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Domestic and General Insurance 
Plc to pay compensation of £125 to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman