DRN-3061138
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC Bank has unfairly applied missed payment markers to the credit 
reference agencies in relation to his mortgage account. 
What happened
Mr S had a payment holiday with HSBC for a number of months. He also made some 
payments later than his monthly mortgage payment due date between October 2020 and 
March 2021. 
Mr S later complained to HSBC, he said it had reported his late payments as missed 
payments, which was having an adverse effect on his credit file. He wanted them to be 
accurately reported as late payments, rather than missed payments. 
He also complained he was given incorrect information about arrears on his account, and 
HSBC didnt tell him what his new monthly mortgage payment would be, following his 
payment holiday. 
HSBC accepted it had given incorrect information about the monthly mortgage payment, so 
to apologise it offered £150 compensation. But it didnt think it had acted incorrectly in how it 
had reported to the credit reference agencies, it said it didnt report payments as missed it 
only notified the credit reference agencies of arrears on the account. 
Mr S didnt accept this, so a complaint was brought to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think HSBC needed to do anything more to put things right. She didnt think HSBC had 
reported things inaccurately. She noted Mr S was using a credit check app, not a credit 
reference agency. She felt it was more likely down to how that app was presenting the data, 
rather than HSBCs inaccurate reporting, which had caused missed payments to be shown. 
Mr S didnt accept that. He said HSBCs actions are stopping him from getting a mortgage. 
So the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr S made some late payments  so what Im considering is whether 
HSBC has unfairly reported information to the credit reference agencies.
HSBC has said it doesnt report payments to credit reference agencies as late or missed, it 
only reports on the arrears on the account. HSBC has shown how it reported Mr S account 
to the credit reference agencies to reflect any arrears that were on the account. I cant see 
any evidence that it reported payments as being missed when it shouldnt have done. 
Mr S has supplied a screenshot of the credit check app hes been using. This isnt a report 
from a credit reference agency. On this  there are three types of payment listed: on time, 
missed payments or no data. From what I can see, missed payments is being reported for 
the months where Mr S paid late. However, from everything Ive seen, I dont think its most 
likely down to how HSBC has reported the payments. 
It seems that on the app Mr S is using, there are only two options when it has data of 
payments being made: on time or missed. As its accepted several payments werent 
made on time, it wouldnt be accurate for them to be classed as on time, so it seems to me 
that this app would therefore show them as missed. As there simply isnt an option to report 
late payments. In any event, I cant see that I can hold HSBC responsible for this; any 
issues on reporting would need to be raised, by Mr S, to the credit check app itself. 
Mr S hasnt provided us with a copy of his credit file, from a credit reference agency, which 
shows HSBC have reported any data inaccurately. He says the app hes using is linked to a 
credit reference agency, so relies on its data. But it isnt enough to persuade me that HSBC 
has reported information incorrectly to the credit reference agencies. So on balance, I 
havent seen enough to say HSBC has acted unfairly.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake when communicating Mr S new monthly repayment at the 
end of 2020. It seems the figure it gave him was about £20 less than it should have been, 
which did lead to a small build up of arrears on the account at one point. I accept this would 
have caused unnecessary worry and frustration for Mr S. Particularly as it told Mr S this 
could be a reason his account was showing arrears.
HSBC has clarified that the adviser gave Mr S incorrect information about the arrears. Its 
said for it to report arrears, the account needs to be behind by at least one monthly 
repayment  so the small level of arrears accrued from its wrong information wouldnt have 
adversely impacted Mr S credit file. I havent seen anything to suggest this information is 
inaccurate. And HSBC has offered £150 for giving incorrect information in a phone call which 
led to unnecessary confusion. Having considered everything, I think this is a reasonable 
level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S, so HSBC should 
pay this amount, if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank Plc needs to pay Mr S £150 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman