DRN-2265722
The complaint
Mr L says a promotion sent by Spreadex Limited (SL) to him in October 2019 was 
misleading (and silent on inherent risks), was in breach of the regulators Principle 7 (with 
regards to a firms obligation to communicate clearly and fairly) and that it was the direct 
cause of loss he has incurred. He is also unhappy about SLs customer service in 
addressing his complaint and about a data protection breach he alleges.
What happened
Mr Ls description of the promotion is that it was a text message about a £25 free bet he had 
been given on the Rugby Union World Cup Final. He says the text  did not make it clear 
about any potential liability  and that he  expected it to work on the same basis as a 
traditional bookmaker free bet i.e. no cost and no liability. Mr L does not have a copy of the 
text, but he stands by his recollection of its contents. He proceeded to place bets in 
November 2019 and incurred a loss of over £3,000, which he says he should not be 
responsible for  based on the allegations summarised above.
SL provided the following information:
Mr L opened his account in January 2013, made eight profitable spread bets in that 
year and thereafter left the account dormant until the nine spread bets he made in 
November 2019 based on the promotion (from which he incurred the loss he is 
disclaiming).
The contents of the promotional text were as follows  Just to let you know, weve 
put £25 in your sports account for the Rugby World Cup final. This is cash in your 
account, not a free bet. Log in to use on our sports betting platform 
Its website and platform provide prominent warnings about the high level of risks in 
spread betting, including the risk of losing more than the initial stake/deposit. These 
were comparable to the risk warnings given to Mr L in the course of opening his 
account at the outset.
The promotional text was coupled with an email which explained the promotion 
further  including the same message that the £25 value was not a free bet; including 
notice that the value could be used for fixed odds betting or spread betting; and 
including notice that if used for spread betting losses could exceed the initial stake. 
This email was sent to the email address, for Mr L, held on SLs records.
SLs position is as follows:
It accepts that the text could have included a more prominent risk warning, but the 
promotion included the text and email; the text referred to its platform where there 
were risk warnings and the email included a risk warning.
The address, for Mr L, used in the email was out of date but it was unaware of that 
and the responsibility to ensure his contact details were up to date belonged to Mr L.
Mr L had previous experience of spread betting  as opposed to fixed odds betting  
so he would have known of the inherent risks as he chose to use the promotion on 
spread bets and as he placed those bets  he knew the bets were leveraged 
because they had a total stake of £85, which was more than the £25 credit. In the 
course of doing so, and as his stake went beyond the £25 credit, he would have seen 
a pop-up risk warning that he had to click through in order to place the bet(s).
The data protection breach alleged by Mr L relates to SLs correspondence about 
claiming the loss he has yet to settle. He says this correspondence was poorly 
packaged and arrived partly opened. SL did not intend this and cannot verify how the 
correspondence was packaged but it has apologised to Mr L if it was received as he 
describes.
In terms of its communications with Mr L, it notes that he deleted his contact number 
from the account in November 2019 after his bets were settled, so SL has found it 
difficult to contact him since then.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He broadly agreed with SLs position and did not consider it fair and reasonable for 
Mr L to hold SL responsible for the negative outcome of the spread betting decisions he 
made with the knowledge of inherent risks he more likely (than not) had. Mr L disagreed and 
maintained his claims, he stressed that SLs text breached Principle 7 and he disputed 
information from SL about its contents. 
Mr L argued that he would not have used the promotion if he had notice of the risks and that 
SL should not be allowed to rely on an email he did not receive. The investigator did not 
accept this and questioned why Mr L had elected to place spread bets with the credit despite 
the risks warnings for such bets on the platform/website; and questioned how he could have 
been mistaken about placing fixed odds bets (as opposed to leveraged spread bets) when 
he put at stake a total that was more than the promotional credit.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion drawn by the investigator. I too agree, 
broadly, with SLs position on the complaint.
On the balance of available evidence, I do not accept the following:
That Mr L was unaware he was placing spread bets, as opposed to fixed odds bets  
it is implausible that selections could have been made by him to place spread bets, 
and not fixed odds bets, without him knowing what he was selecting.
That Mr L was unaware of the leveraged nature of the spread bets  it is equally 
implausible that he could have been so unaware given that he wilfully put at stake a 
total that exceeded (and was over three times the size of) the promotional credit; he 
would have known from this that the bets were leveraged on the promotional credit.
That Mr L was unaware of the risks inherent in spread bets  there is evidence of the 
risk warnings he was given in the course of opening the account; evidence of risk 
warnings he would have seen on SLs platform/website; evidence of his past 
experience in making spread bets; and I consider it unlikely he would have forgotten 
the inherent risks (and/or these notices) as he placed the spread bets in 2019, 
especially in light of the risk reminders on the platform and in the pop-up message he 
would have received as he exceeded the promotional credit.
That Mr L is not responsible for the outcomes of his spread bets  the bets were 
made on his decision to do so and with his awareness of the associated risks, so 
their outcomes are his responsibility.I understand the point Mr L makes about Principle 7.  I do not suggest that a firms duty to 
uphold the regulators Principles should be ignored and I have not done that. 
The first point to note is that SLs promotion was based on the text, email and SLs platform. 
I am satisfied with its evidence on the contents of the text. The text stated that the offer was 
not a free bet and it referred to SLs platform for usage of the promotional offer  in turn, the 
platform included information on spread betting risks. The email did essentially the same. On 
balance and in this context, I am not persuaded that SL miscommunicated the risks in the 
promotion or presented them in an unclear fashion.
The second point to note is that the task before me is to address Mr Ls complaint  not to 
administer regulation of SL. I am not persuaded that a breach of Principle 7 was committed 
but if he disagrees, he retains discretion to raise any concern he has with the regulator. In 
terms of addressing his complaint, the key issue is whether (or not) the promotion misled 
him into unknowingly making risky spread bets and into incurring the loss he has cited. The 
conclusions I set out above are that evidence does not support his claims in these respects. 
Like SL and the investigator, I too accept that he probably did not receive the promotional 
email. However, I do not consider SL responsible for that  Mr L ought to have maintained 
up to date contact details in the records for his account. In terms of SLs role in the matter I 
am satisfied that it sent the email as additional explanation of the promotion; and even 
though Mr L probably did not see the email, the points noted above support the conclusion 
that he would nevertheless have been aware of the details of the promotion and of the risks 
in using the credit amount for spread bets.
I do not have enough evidence to determine that the poorly packaged correspondence Mr L 
has referred to was due to SLs actions or inaction, as opposed to possible mistreatment of 
the correspondence in postal transit. As such, I cannot fairly conclude that SL is responsible 
for the data breach he alleges, but I consider SLs apology to be a reasonable response. 
Available evidence is that SL took on board and addressed each complaint issue raised by 
Mr L, so overall it does not appear to have mishandled his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman