DRN-3718018
The complaint
Mr M has complained about delays with Target Servicing Limited when he needed a Deed of 
Postponement to allow him to remortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are;
Target accepted it had made mistakes and delayed the process so I dont need to 
make any findings on what went wrong or why, I simply need to decide what needs to 
be done to put things right.
Mr M said that he should receive compensation of a minimum of £24,850 as he could 
have lost his property due to the delays. But we dont decide a complaint, and make 
an award of compensation, based on what could have happened, but didnt. If Mr M 
had incurred that financial loss, then we could have considered that, but it didnt 
happen and so all were thinking about is the level of compensation due for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Whilst there was a delay in Target submitting the paperwork to Homes England, I 
must also keep in mind the next stage was then fast tracked so it was completed in 
less than two working weeks (setting aside the Christmas break) against the four to 
six weeks Target has said that stage would normally take.
Mr M has said that in total it took nine months, but I can only consider Targets part in 
things, not any delays by other parties. I can see from the contact notes and emails 
that Target told Mr Ms solicitor what it needed, but didnt receive the main bulk of 
that until 25 October 2021, and then following an email from Target to the solicitor on 
27 October, it seems the last document came in on 15 November 2021.
The original mortgage offer expired on 8 December 2021, so even if Target hadnt 
made a mistake it was unlikely the process would have completed by then. Thats 
because the normal timescale from the point Target had all the paperwork it needed 
was up to four to six weeks for the sealed documents to be returned, so it seems the 
mortgage offer would always have needed to have been extended.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr Ms health situation, having considered all 
the circumstances and the level of compensation weve awarded in other cases with 
similar characteristics, Im satisfied the £250 compensation recommended by our 
investigator is fair and reasonable.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ms complaint and order Target to pay £250 
to Mr M (less any amounts already paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and I order Target Servicing Limited 
to pay £250 compensation to Mr M (less any amounts already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman