DRN-2910400
The complaint
Miss G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, trading as More Th>n (RSA), 
has unfairly declined a claim she made under her pet insurance. 
What happened
Miss G has had her dog, which Ill call J, insured with RSA since about February 2019.  In 
May 2020 she had cause to take J to the vet as a scratch had caused a lump on Js head to 
open, causing bleeding and discharge. J received care from the vet, including cleaning the 
wound and being prescribed some medication. 
Miss G subsequently submitted a claim to RSA, indicating that J had been diagnosed with a 
mass on head. RSA declined the claim as the vet notes indicated the lump had been 
present for around two years prior to the claim, which made it a pre-existing condition and so 
not covered under the terms of the policy. Miss G complained, but RSA was satisfied the 
claim had been declined incorrectly. 
Although we initially upheld the complaint, on review, one of our investigators concluded 
RSA had declined the claim in accordance with the terms of the policy. Miss G has asked for 
the matter to be reviewed.  She has argued that the policy covers any veterinary bills, but 
she hasnt been refunded the cost of the visit. She also argues that the vet didnt treat J, just 
shaved Js head and cleaned the wound, and prescribed medication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss G feels very strongly that her vets bill should be covered by RSA. But I 
can only ask RSA to settle the claim, or reconsider it, if I find it has been declined incorrectly 
(i.e. not in accordance with the policy terms and conditions) or if the policy terms and 
conditions have been applied unfairly and/or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the contract Miss G has with RSA  the policy terms for her pet 
insurance. These set out the level of cover provided and under what circumstances a claim 
can be made and any conditions and/or exclusions which may be applicable. 
There are four levels of cover provided by the policy, accident only, basic, classic and 
premier. It isnt clear which level of cover Miss G had. But each level explained that not all 
medication required by a pet is covered. So whilst I accept Miss Gs argument that vet fees 
are covered, as with almost all insurance policies, there are limitations and exclusions to that 
cover. 
In the What Is Not Covered sections of each level of cover, the policy says:
for health issued, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet were aware 
of before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions, they are:
signs or symptoms or diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses;
existing illnesses or injuries;
existing physical abnormalities;
existing illnesses injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health issues 
or injuries;
illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or 
physical abnormalities. 
There is no dispute from Miss G that J has had a lump on her head. There is also no dispute 
that this has been present since early 2018.  Vets notes show that Miss G had been 
concerned about the lump in March 2019, after the lump had been present for about a year, 
and surgical removal was recommended. So its clear Js lump was present prior to the start 
of the policy. And when visiting the vet in May 2020, the vet recorded the lump had been 
present for around two years and was slowly growing, likely because J always bumped her 
head on the lesion. 
I accept a scratch, in and of itself, is unlikely to be a pre-existing condition  they are one-off 
events. But its not entirely clear this was a scratch, the vets records said:
Prev wound opened  bleeding/OR hole in head? 
But even if it was, I dont think I can fairly ignore the vets comments that J always bumps 
her head on the lesion or that the vet had a year prior to that recommended the removal of 
the lump. In making that recommendation in 2019 the vet recorded about the lump that 
Possible prior injury that formed a bursa. Can not rule out other causes. Is loose from the 
underlying tissue and mobile. 
Given the lump had been present for some two years prior to this vet visit, and that it would 
appear from the vets comments J is prone to making the lump worse, Im satisfied the claim 
has been fairly declined. I say this because Im satisfied the lump is an existing physical 
abnormality which has led to, or is medically linked to, the injury claimed for  both of which 
are exclusions under the policy. 
Finally, I note that Miss G has argued the vet didnt provide treatment but cleaned the wound 
and prescribed medication. Treatment is generally accepted to be the medical care provided 
to a patient for illness or injury; by cleaning the wound and prescribing medication Im 
satisfied the vet was providing treatment to J. But as I have found RSA has declined the 
claim fairly, then I wont be asking it to settle this claim or reimburse Miss Gs costs in 
relation to it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman