DRN-2237992
The complaint
Mr P complains about delays and poor service by HSBC UK Bank Plc when applying a 
payment to his account. 
What happened
On 2 December 2019 a third party transferred £12,133.71 to Mr Ps HSBC account. But the 
details used for the transfer were linked to an old debit card that was no longer active. HSBC 
says it received the funds on 3 December 2019 and they were paid into a suspense account 
because of the old card details that had been used. The funds were credited to Mr Ps 
account on 21 December 2019. 
Mr P complained and HSBC agreed the service received had been poor. HSBC apologised 
for the delay in crediting Mr Ps account and paid him £150. 
On 14 April 2020 another payment was received from the third party business, this time for 
£4,864.24. The payment instruction contained the old debit card details again which meant it 
was diverted to HSBCs suspense account. The funds were credited to Mr Ps account on 20 
April 2020. After Mr P complained, HSBC paid him £50 and apologised for the delay. 
Mr P referred his complaint about the December 2019 transfer to our service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They agreed that there had been an unreasonable delay but 
thought HSBCs settlement of £150 was fair. Mr P asked to appeal, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has told us that the situation was very stressful as he wasnt sure what had happened 
to his money after the transfer failed to reach his bank account. I understand it took some 
time for the funds to reach his account and that Mr P was away during this period which 
added to his concerns. I agree that HSBC should have been able to provide clear answers 
about what had happened to Mr Ps money and that the transfer was delayed. 
I have to take into account that the payment instruction used the wrong debit card details. I 
appreciate there were delays on HSBCs part. But I think its reasonable to say it was always 
likely there would be a delay because out of date payment details were used. The transfer 
Mr P sent was for £12,133.71 and Im satisfied that HSBCs decision to pay it into the 
suspense account for further checks was reasonable. 
So whilst I agree there was a delay, Im not persuaded that HSBC was solely responsible for 
the amount of time it took for Mr Ps funds to clear in his account. 
Mr P has explained that he had to call HSBC repeatedly to try and find out what had 
happened to his money and that the situation affected the enjoyment of his holiday. I agree 
that HSBC should have been able to answer Mr Ps questions quicker, but as Ive said 
above, the way the payment was sent by the third party meant there was always going to be 
a delay and some confusion when trying to apply it to his account. 
Ive reviewed HSBCs offer in relation to the December 2019 payment as that is the topic of 
Mr Ps complaint. Whilst I can see how stressful the situation was, Im satisfied that £150 
fairly reflects the impact of the service provided by HSBC and delays in applying the 
payment to Mr Ps account. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with the complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action or increase the award. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman