DRN-4264824
The complaint
Mr D complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) unfairly reduced his interest
returns on his crowdfunding investments and delayed returning his money following his
withdrawal requests.
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by TP in September
2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately throughout this decision.
RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter -
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account.
RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund
was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in the
event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in effect mutualised risk for all investors by
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Although payments from the
Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would be made provided there were sufficient
funds available in it.
The adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the Interest Coverage Ratio -
calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the Expected Future Losses (the
total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower repayments expected over the lifetime of
active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding
the size of the Provision Fund and all the future interest from active loans and then dividing
by the Expected Future Losses.
Historically, the Provision Fund was funded through borrowers as part of their loan fees and
not by investors. But RateSetter says that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it
saw a decrease in new lending and in turn, a decrease in borrower fees going into the
Provision Fund. RateSetter has told us that in April 2020 the Interest Coverage Ratio had
dropped below 74% and in May 2020, in response to this, it introduced a Stabilisation
Period  a 50% reduction to the interest rate investors received on their investments.
RateSetter says that was introduced to replenish the Provision Fund. It also says the Capital
Coverage Ratio was around 154% at the time and so a capital rate reduction wasnt
necessary. RateSetter says this was all implemented in line with the terms of the investment.
TP acquired RateSetter in September 2020, but the entire loan portfolio remained with
RateSetter. RateSetter has explained that the Interest Coverage Ratio had returned above
100% by December 2020 and the Stabilisation Period ended in January 2021. In February
2021 RateSetter announced that TP was acquiring the entire loan portfolio which then
completed in April 2021. As a result, investors received their capital back, plus any interest
due.
Mr D requested to make a full withdrawal from his investments in May 2020. In August 2020
Mr D complained to RateSetter as he was unhappy with the time it was taking to complete
these withdrawals. He said hes noticed that repayments from his investments had been
reinvested rather than being transferred to his holding account for withdrawal. He was also
unhappy that RateSetter had reduced his interest rates.
RateSetter considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. RateSetter said Mr Ds
withdrawal requests were in a queue to be released which was subject to the liquidity in the
market at the time  as per the terms of the investment. RateSetter said Mr D would
continue to earn interest and explained that the option to have capital and interest repaid by
borrowers paid directly to his holding account was not available on his account. It said for his
type of account, the capital and interest repaid will always be placed on to the market to be
reinvested in the same product at the Going Rate, or an investors chosen rate if they have
specified this in their reinvestment settings.
Mr D remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so he referred his complaint to this
Service for an independent review. He said that despite changing his reinvestment settings
to amend his chosen rate to 8%, RateSetter continued to match orders at a rate of between
3 and 3.5% on his investments.
An investigator at this Service looked into Mr Ds concerns and originally upheld the
complaint but later revised his view based upon new information provided by RateSetter. In
summary, he said:
He felt RateSetter had made it clear to Mr D in its Investor Terms that his ability to 
withdraw was dependent on there being liquidity in the market.
There was clearly an imbalance in supply and demand caused by the reaction to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, with reduced demand on the secondary market. So, he didnt 
think it was unreasonable that it took longer than normal for RateSetter to process Mr 
Ds withdrawal requests.
Auto-reinvesting during a period of low demand, like during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
meant Mr Ds money was effectively trapped on the platform. He felt Mr D had given 
a clear instruction that he didnt want to continue investing on the platform and by 
leaving auto-reinvest on RateSetter unfairly prevented him from ending his contract. 
So he felt Mr D should be compensated for this.
He was satisfied that RateSetters Investor Terms gave it a broad discretion to 
introduce the Stabilisation Period.
He was persuaded that RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period 
was fair, and consistent with maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate above 100% to 
ensure continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio.
RateSetter had accepted that it delayed providing all available evidence for the 
complaint and had it not done so, he wouldnt have reached the same outcome as he 
did in his initial opinion. He said RateSetter had offered £250 in recognition for the 
unnecessary delay caused and any distress and inconvenience caused by this, 
which he felt was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Both parties didnt agree with the investigators findings. Mr D remained unhappy with the
interest rate reduction and RateSetter didnt accept fault with regards to the auto-
reinvestment issue. In summary, RateSetter said the auto re-investment element meant that,
until funds were released, Mr D continued to earn interest, and the loans continued to follow
his reinvestment settings and were re-invested at the original rate to the original borrower. It
also said that Mr D requested to release all funds, amounting to £1,179.04, on 1 May 2020
from the access market and the funds were released on 25 December 2020 amounting to
£603.57  evidencing that Mr D was actively withdrawing his funds when the repayments 
were being paid.As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings in July 2023. In this I explained why I felt the complaint 
should be partly upheld. I include this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Withdrawal delays and auto-reinvestment
I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy with the amount of time it took for RateSetter to complete
his withdrawal requests. However, having reviewed the information provided to him at the
time of investing on the platform, Im satisfied RateSetter made him aware that his ability to
withdraw from the investment was dependent on liquidity of the market he was invested in.
Some platforms (including RateSetter) have put in place secondary markets that allow
investors to sell their loan parts to other investors in order to withdraw funds. There is no
regulatory requirement on platforms to have this facility available. And it follows that there
are no rules dictating how these secondary markets should be run. Ultimately, how
RateSetter decided to process withdrawal requests was a commercial decision which its
entitled to make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether
Mr D has been treated unfairly as a result of that decision.
RateSetters Investor Terms explained:
8.3. If your funds have already been matched to a loan contract, you can only
withdraw them using the Release Investment function detailed below.
9. The Release Investment function
9.1. Once your funds are matched and a loan contract is formed, you may be able to
withdraw matched funds before they are repaid by the borrower by using the 
Release Investment function, but this will only be possible where there are sufficient 
funds available in the market. We may temporarily suspend your ability to use this 
function in order to manage supply and demand on the platform.Taking into account the above terms, I think RateSetter made Mr D aware that withdrawing
would only be possible where there were sufficient funds available in the market. RateSetter
has explained it received a larger number of requests to release funds during the onset of
the Covid-19 pandemic which, in turn reduced liquidity and increased queue times. Im also
aware that RateSetter did provide updates regarding withdrawal wait times on its website to
manage investors expectations.
I also understand that Mr D feels RateSetter shouldnt have continued to re-invest his money
once he had requested to fully withdraw from the platform. Ive thought very carefully about
this and on balance, I dont think RateSetter has acted unfairly.
RateSetter has explained that auto-reinvestment was a key feature of the investment
product, designed to re-invest continuously and carry on with existing loan contracts. The
Investor Terms explained how this would work:
7.3. Capital and interest will (subject to the amounts received reaching the minimum
offer amount of £10) be automatically reinvested into the same product in which you
initially invested, either at the Going Rate or at Your Rate.
So Im satisfied that RateSetter made Mr D aware in the Investor Terms that his money
would continue to be re-invested until he could fully withdraw. As Ive explained above, the
only way Mr D could access his funds was by requesting a release of his investment, which
was subject to liquidity. And as there was lower liquidity in the market and insufficient
number of investors willing to invest when he requested to withdraw, it took longer for the
withdrawal requests to take place and his money continued to be reinvested.
I appreciate that, by reinvesting Mr Ds money, it took longer for him to fully withdraw his
funds. Whilst I think it could be argued that RateSetter ought to have turned off auto-
reinvestment, considering it was aware of the increase in demand to withdraw during the
Covid-19 pandemic, even if RateSetter had done so Im not persuaded Mr D would have
been in a better financial position. I say this as he continued to receive interest during this
period and had his money not been reinvested, he would have still had to wait some time for
his original withdrawal requests to complete. So hes essentially benefitted from interest he
wouldnt have been entitled to had RateSetter not continued to reinvest hid money. Its also
not clear whether Mr D would have been able to make a greater investment return had he
invested his money elsewhere. As Mr D would have had to have waited until all his
investments had been released, I think its reasonable to suggest he wouldnt have received
all his money back in one lump so and so its difficult to say what he would have done each
time he received some of his money back.
Im also aware that Mr D says RateSetter reinvested his funds at a lower rate than he had
set in his reinvestment settings. Its not clear why this happened, and I dont think RateSetter
has acted in Mr Ds best interests by not adhering to his instructions. However, for the
reasons Ive given above, I dont think Mr D has been financially disadvantaged as a result of
this. I appreciate RateSetters actions may have caused Mr D some distress and
inconvenience at the time but I think RateSetters offer of £250 fairly reflects this.
Fairness of the implementation of the Stabilisation Period
RateSetter has relied upon the following term which was in its Investor Terms to introduce
the Stabilisation Period:
19.1. If at any time, RateSetter reasonably believes the Provision Fund does not
have sufficient funds (including expected future inflows) to cover current or expectedborrower defaults, RateSetter may implement a Stabilisation Period.
While I think the term gave RateSetter a broad discretion to introduce the Stabilisation
Period, I must also consider whether in doing so RateSetter treated Mr D fairly and acted
with his best interests in mind.
RateSetter has explained that that prior to April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio was and
had only ever been above 100% and that the objective  as disclosed to investors  was to
maintain it to this level. The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to
a figure greater than 100%.
Its also clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation of risk
across the loan portfolio. And if this was not sufficiently maintained, investors would likely be
exposed to risk beyond that which theyd accepted when agreeing to invest on a platform
that mutualised risk across the whole loan portfolio. The Provision Fund policy explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
RateSetter has also explained that expected future losses were estimated each month-end
by RateSetter's Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well
as independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. And that the
impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future losses which,
when tested at month end April 2020, caused the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 74%. It
was this level of drop in the Interest Coverage Ratio which RateSetter says meant it was
necessary to implement the Stabilisation Period  ensuring investors were protected equally
and that their risk was fully mutualised.
Understandably, there was a lot of uncertainty during the Covid-19 pandemic, and I think it
would be unfair to scrutinise a firms decision taken during this time where its clear it has
taken precautionary steps having relied upon independent forecasts. Its also apparent from
the information provided that RateSetter had lengthy discussions regarding what was the
best action to take in these circumstances.
So, on balance, Im persuaded RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period
was fair, as it was consistent with the objective of maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate
above 100% - ensuring continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio - and
allowing investors to continue to benefit from protection whilst still receiving interest (albeit
less than expected) during a period of economic uncertainty. Im also are satisfied the
Provision Fund shortfall estimates were reasonably assessed, as RateSetter considered
relevant factors from independent sources. Its also important to consider these decisions
were made in unprecedented circumstances and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
consider these with the benefit of hindsight.
RateSetters delay in providing a full response
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr D by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period or the delay in withdrawing, I think this offer fairly
reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this information at the
earliest opportunity and for not following his reinvestment settings at all times.Responses to my provisional findings
RateSetter didnt respond to my provisional findings but Mr D. Whilst he didnt agree with all 
the findings, he said hed begrudgingly accept the £250 offered by RateSetter to resolve the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The deadline for further submissions has now passed and RateSetter hasnt provided any 
further comments for me to consider. Having reconsidered the complaint again in its entirety, 
along with the additional comments that have been provided by Mr D, I have reached the 
same decision as before, and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
RateSetter should pay Mr D £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period or the delay in withdrawing, I think this offer fairly
reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this information at the
earliest opportunity and for not following his reinvestment settings at all times.
My final decision
My final decision is that Retail Money Market Ltd should pay Mr D £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman