DRN-4342373
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was provided with unsuitable investment advice by Raymond James 
Investment Services Ltd. He says, in brief, that -
The advice involved too much risk.
He was told hed receive a return of 6 - 10% very year, which has not been the case.
He was misinformed about the fees involved.
He seeks compensation for losses, a refund of fees and a sum for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr B was initially provided with advice by Raymond James in January 2017. Following a 
meeting with an adviser he invested a total of £275,000  £75,000 in February 2017 then 
£200,000 in May 2017  on a discretionary managed basis, split across a general 
investment account, an ISA, and a SIPP. 
The relationship between the parties was then ongoing until mid-2019 at which point, due to 
changes in the Financial Conduct Authority authorisation of Raymond James, management 
of Mr Bs investments moved to another business. (A complaint has also been made about 
that business and dealt with under a separate reference).
In early 2022 Mr B complained about his investments, in terms as set out above. The 
complaint was initially made to the business to which management of the investments had 
moved, but then redirected to Raymond James as it was responsible for the initial advice. 
Raymond James issued a final response in November 2022 in which it explained it was not 
upholding the complaint. It felt, in brief, that the advice had been suitable for Mr Bs needs 
and circumstances. It also didnt feel any guarantees had been given in respect of potential 
returns and it was satisfied appropriate information regarding fees had been provided.       
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld, for broadly the same reasons as those given by Rayment James.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. 
I appreciate Mr B feels very strongly about the matter. I note the comments hes made 
concerning his well-being and hope very much that hes receiving all the support he needs. 
But in reaching a conclusion on his complaint, I must remain impartial and carefully consider 
all the evidence before me. In that respect, I can assure him Ive looked at all his written 
submissions and everything else hes provided, including the witness statements, photos, 
and telephone recordings. 
However, I trust Mr B wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail than his submissions, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Where matters are unclear or in dispute, Ive reached my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider more likely than not to have happened based 
on all the evidence available and the wider circumstances. 
Ill consider each of the main points of Mr Bs complaint in turn.
Attitude to risk
As part of the advice fact finding process, during which details of Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives were recorded, he completed a questionnaire designed to categorise his personal 
risk tolerance. He scored 52, which placed him within the fourth category, which was the 
middle of the seven available. This equated to a balanced portfolio with an investment 
strategy reflecting a 50% defensive/50% growth split. However, the documentation suggests 
that discussion led to Mr Bs categorisation being pushed up one level, to the fifth risk 
category and, as such, an investment strategy weighted more towards growth  25% 
defensive/75% growth.
Mr B strongly refutes that this re-categorisation stemmed from discussions with the adviser 
and says its something he didnt agree to or understand. And, moreover, it was unsuitable 
for him due to his lack of investment experience.
Ive noted Mr Bs comments, but must weigh them against the documentary evidence, which 
clearly explained the change in categorisation and reasons for it. Ive also considered the 
wider circumstances and while its clear Mr B was a novice investor in terms of the 
stockmarket, he had a rental property investment and has said that prior to receiving advice 
from Raymond James, hed been intending to make further rental investments. 
He was in his 30s, with his main residence and his rental property owned in full without 
mortgages and with a recorded liquid net worth of around £435,000. Given these 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable to have stretched his risk categorisation 
slightly for the size of investment in question, particularly as his risk score put him toward the 
top end of the middle category  52 in a range of 45 to 54. In all the circumstances, on 
balance, I dont think it was unsuitable to have advised Mr B to invest at this slightly higher 
level of risk with a strategy focussed more on growth. 
Investment returns   
This issue is Mr Bs primary concern. He says he was effectively hoodwinked into accepting 
the investment advice based on what he refers to as pledges by Raymond James adviser 
that the investments would return no less than somewhere between 6% and 10% annually. 
Again, Ive considered carefully what Mr B has said on this point. But there is nothing in the 
documentation that indicates he was given any guarantee as to what rate of return he would 
receive. Ive no doubt that the adviser was very encouraging and positive about the potential 
for the investments to perform well. And the sort of figures quoted by Mr B are not outside 
the sort of examples I might expect to see given as potential returns in this type of advice scenario, especially as it appears the advice was given looking at a long-term, around 16-
year, time frame. 
Mr B may have accepted the advisers recommendations on the basis that he would 
definitely receive no less than 6% per year. But I dont think I can hold Raymond James 
responsible for any misconception about that on Mr Bs part. While some of the related 
documentation may have been received by him after the advice was given and the money 
had been invested, it nevertheless contained statements that explained the risks involved 
and the possibility of loss  such as The value of investments, and the income from them, 
can go down as well as up, and you may not recover the amount of your initial investment.    
Even if received after the event, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr B to question this 
sort of information if he had proceeded with the investments based primarily on the 
understanding of receiving a guaranteed return. I can see that by the end of 2018 he was 
questioning the performance of the investments and was clearly disappointed that the first 
few years had not produced the performance hed thought hed see. But overall, I dont think, 
on balance, the evidence supports him being misinformed about the likelihood of positive 
returns. 
Mr B has provided a recording of a phone call with the original adviser made much later, in 
2022. In the call he suggests to the adviser that he has a sum of over £1million that hes 
looking to invest. Hes said that the comments made by the adviser on this call very much 
reflect the tone of the sales pitch put forward in 2017 and this supports his argument that he 
was promised a minimum level of return. 
But I dont think its fair to use this call, made five years after the events in question and in a 
different context, as a gauge of what may have happened previously. And in any event, the 
adviser says during the call that the potential 6% - 10% returns that Mr B repeatedly 
suggests might be possible are reasonable expectations, with many caveats added. He 
doesnt say anything I think could be reasonably construed as a pledge or guarantee about 
what would be achieved if an investment were to go ahead.
And as an aside (which Id stress is not a deciding factor in my consideration of whether the 
advice was suitable for Mr B, or whether Raymond James failed him in any other way) I think 
its nevertheless worth bearing in mind that over the period that Mr B was invested, the 
returns did on occasion reach levels of over 6% annually. He was invested over a period that 
saw the massive stockmarket fall associated with the pandemic and lockdown, but the 
recommended investments still performed broadly at levels that outstripped our benchmark 
comparisons for lower risk investments.   
The fees
Mr B also disputes that he was fully informed about the fees he would be charged by 
Raymond James for the advice. He says if hed known that he would be charged 3% (plus 
VAT) for the initial advice along with an ongoing 1.2% (plus VAT) annually as management 
fees he wouldnt have invested. 
Again, I must balance Mr B recollections with the documentary evidence  the information 
provided to him at the time of the advice or in the months that followed. He was clearly 
aware of at least the 3% as he challenged this level of charge in an email very early in the 
process, in January 2017, suggesting it wasnt going to work. I think this shows that he was 
aware that charges of some sort would be incurred and further, that he was quite engaged 
with the process of charging  enough so to take issue with it. 
When he then made his initial investment of £75,000 in February 2017, hes confirmed he was sent a spreadsheet that showed the set-up fees, but he considers this to have lacked 
sufficient detail. But the spreadsheet did show that the fees were subject to VAT, albeit in a 
slightly unclear manner, and this information was provided quite some time prior to Mr B 
then making the main investment of £200,000
Raymond James has said that Mr B was provided with all the relevant pricing information at 
the outset in its normal, clear format and continued to be provided with it annually, which is 
what I would generally expect to see.
So, on balance, I think more likely than not, that Mr B was provided with the correct pricing 
information. If he misunderstood it in anyway, or didnt appreciate the full impact of it, I dont 
think thats something for which I can hold Raymond James responsible. Mr B says that by 
the time he found out what the charges really were it was too late, and he was already 
committed to paying them. But he could have complained at that point that hed been 
misinformed, or he couldve looked to move his investments to another provider with lower 
fees  although those charged by Raymond James look to be generally in line with industry 
norms for the service provided.    
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman