DRN-3439986
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled a claim 
under their landlords insurance policy. When I mention Great Lakes, I also mean its 
suppliers.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S own an apartment they let to a tenant and which is covered by Great Lakes 
under a landlords insurance policy. 
In February 2021 Mrs and Mr Ss tenant noticed a leak in the bathroom at the property 
causing damage to the buildings and contents of the bathroom, hallway, lounge and kitchen. 
Mrs and Mr S contacted Great Lakes to make a claim. There was a delay before Mrs and Mr 
S could submit the claims form, but they did this about a month later. 
Great Lakes then asked Mrs and Mr S to get some quotes for the work that needed doing to 
repair the damage. Mrs and Mr S obtained these from a contractor they already had a 
working relationship with. The initial quotes contained elements that werent covered under 
Great Lakes policy so it asked for the quotes to be broken down and there was a period of 
time during which communications went back and forth between the two parties and the 
contractor to work out what was acceptable. 
For example, Great Lakes said that its policy would only provide cover for the fixtures and 
fittings and landlords contents, with no cover for buildings, which required a further quotation 
from the contractor.
The quotes were completed by July 2021. Great Lakes then investigated the claim due to 
some concerns with it. It said it wasnt able to verify who Mrs and Mr Ss contractor was. It 
said there were problems with the quotes Mrs and Mr S had provided, and the way the 
quotation process had taken place caused some issues with validating the quotes and work 
that needed doing.
Great Lakes also said it had details of a previous loss at the property from 2020 which had 
been declined. This claim was for a leak into the apartment by rainwater, causing damage to 
the bathroom, lounge, flooring and electrics. The damage from this leak was before a 
previous policy had come into force and it had been declined by a previous insurer. Great 
Lakes said that some of the damage caused in the leak of 2021 was probably from the leak 
in 2020 and so couldnt be covered.
Mrs and Mr S couldnt answer all of Great Lakes questions about the damage and referred it 
to their contractors and managing agents. Great Lakes couldnt get answers to its questions 
from those third parties because Great Lakes says they didnt respond.
Mrs and Mr S complained to Great Lakes about the delays they said were its responsibility. 
They asked for their claim to be settled and compensation for their stress and inconvenience 
of around £2,000.
Our investigator looked into Mrs and Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he 
thought Great Lakes had acted reasonably in how itd handled its investigations and had 
acted in a timely manner when itd received information from Mrs and Mr S and their 
contractor.
Great Lakes didnt respond to the view and Mrs and Mr S didnt agree with it. Because they 
didnt agree, it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2022, after our investigator issued his view, Great Lakes agreed to settle part of the 
claim relating to the damage to the floor and wardrobe it said was caused by the leaking 
toilet, as well as loss of rent for the period during which the apartment was unoccupiable.
Great Lakes said it wouldnt cover any of the other damage in the apartment which it 
regarded as being part of the previous loss in 2020, or because the damage was caused to 
the buildings of the apartment, which its policy didnt cover.
Mrs and Mr S have told this service they accepted settlement of their claim from Great Lakes 
in April 2022. They continue to ask for compensation of about £2,000 for their stress and 
inconvenience because of the delays they say were caused by Great Lakes.
Given that the claim itself seems to have been acceptably settled, it falls to me to consider 
whether the delays in the claims process were due to Great Lakes. 
I know Mrs and Mr S will find my decision disappointing, but in this case I think Great Lakes 
has acted reasonably and Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see from Great Lakes evidence that its claims process did move forward. Sometimes 
there were small delays waiting for information from Mrs and Mr S and their suppliers, 
sometimes small delays from Great Lakes. 
I can see that the nature of employment of the tenant in the apartment did cause some 
issues for Great Lakes early on in the claim, but this seems to have been dealt with 
reasonably quickly and didnt seem to hinder the claim.
Once the quotes for repairs had been received, I can see that Great Lakes felt it needed to 
further examine the claim as it had concerns about the information itd received, and how it 
had received it. Again, the decision to investigate the claim seems to have been subject to a 
short delay, but Im not persuaded that this was excessive, especially given the complexity of 
the concerns.
The investigation needed to be thorough given the nature of Great Lakes concerns and 
again I think it progressed the investigation reasonably. Its the responsibility of an insurer to 
reasonably satisfy itself of the circumstances surrounding a claim before its able to agree it 
and make payment, and its my opinion that the investigation proceeded reasonably well at 
this point.
Great Lakes investigations then reached a stage where Mrs and Mr S couldnt answer its 
questions, so Great Lakes tried to get the answers from third parties. Great Lakes have said 
it didnt get a response to its questions, and I cant fairly say that the delays at this point were 
due to what Great Lakes did.Overall, I cant say that Great Lakes actions in handling the claim and investigating it were 
unreasonable, and I dont think it has unfairly delayed the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman