DRN-2243340
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly
cancelled her policy. She wants any record of fraud or cancellation removed from any
internal or external databases, and a refund of the unused premiums she said she paid.
Shes also said Watford were unclear on when her policy would be cancelled from.
Miss S is represented in this case. But, for ease, I will refer to all submissions as being made
by Miss S directly.
What happened
Miss S took out a motor insurance policy with Watford through a price comparison website. 
She made a claim under that policy for a stolen exhaust but withdrew it part way through, 
after realising her policy excess was more than the cost of repairs.
Shortly after withdrawing her claim, Miss S received correspondence notifying her that 
Watford would be cancelling her policy because it had been set up fraudulently and would 
be retaining her premiums. It also said she would need to pay Watford the remaining cost 
of her policy, or her debt would be passed onto a debt recovery team.
Watford said it took the above course of action because it felt Miss S had been 
dishonest when she set up her policy and had misrepresented her home address. It 
said that it was entitled to cancel her policy when there had been evidence of fraud.
Miss S said she paid the remaining premiums requested as the broker had told her the 
debt would be passed to a debt recovery agent if she didnt. But she explained that she 
lived on a houseboat and didnt have a fixed postcode, as she travels around the UK and 
parks her car in the nearest car park available. So, at the time she applied for the policy, 
she input a correspondence address. She said she feels she answered the application 
questions honestly, but that it was difficult to present her living arrangements clearly 
through the questions asked on the website. So she thought it unfair for Watford to take 
the action it did.
Watford said that as Miss S confirmed she would move her vehicle to a different location 
each time it was parked, there was no way to accurately calculate the risk of insuring her. 
So it was satisfied the cancellation of her policy was the correct course of action to take. 
But it has since said that as it recorded the case as misrepresentation, it didnt place any 
fraud markers on any internal or external databases.
Miss S says Watford did not make it clear when the policy was being cancelled from. But 
Watford says that the date the policy was being cancelled from was set out clearly in the 
letter it sent her.
Unhappy with Watfords actions, Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator considered Miss S complaint and thought it should be upheld. She thought 
Miss S hadnt represented her position clearly at the point of sale and was satisfied that, 
had she done so, Watford would not have given her a policy. But she thought Miss S had 
been careless rather than deliberate in her actions; so she said Watford should void the 
policy, but it couldnt pursue her for the outstanding premiums owed. And she thought 
instead, as Watford would have never offered Miss S cover, it should refund all the 
premiums she had paid to date and pay her compensation of £75 for the poor service she 
received. Finally, she thought that Watford had made it clear to Miss S the date on which 
the policy would be cancelled from.
Watford responded to the investigators view and agreed in part. It accepted the 
investigators reasons for upholding the complaint and said it wouldnt chase her for the 
outstanding premiums owed. It also agreed to pay her the compensation recommended. 
But it said it was entitled to retain the premiums paid for the time Miss S had cover in 
place, which was from 12 October 2018 to 25 April 2019. This is because they had 
exercised the right to cancel the policy in circumstances where there was no active claim. 
For this reason, it felt it was entitled to the cost of cover for the time before the policy was 
cancelled.
As Watford did not accept all the investigators findings, the case was passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2020 where I said the following:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA d 
whether depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, or careless.
Watford thinks Miss S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she stated in her application that her vehicle would be kept at home overnight. 
This is because when Miss S applied through the price comparison site, she was 
asked:
Is the car kept overnight at home or elsewhere and Miss S chose the at home 
option.
But at this point of answering the question, it seems Miss S was referring to her 
houseboat which did not have a fixed location, and not the address that she had 
input into the price comparison site at the time of applying which she considered 
to be her correspondence address.
Prior to being asked the above question, Miss S was also asked:Where do you keep the car at night to which she chose the other option, 
and then selected from a dropdown list public car park.
Its not clear to me why both questions were asked, as they appear to ask the same 
thing, and this doesnt seem necessary. But equally, given the similarity of the 
questions, I think its reasonable to think that Miss S shouldve provided similar 
answers.
Given that Miss S vehicle was not being kept overnight at the home address she 
had provided, I think she should have answered elsewhere to the first question. 
And I therefore think Miss S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she said the overnight storage location would be at 
home.
While Watford initially said Miss S had been fraudulent in providing the information 
she did, I think the reasons shes given for answering the questions this way was 
more due to a lack of options that fit her exact circumstances, rather than her 
deliberately trying to mislead Watford.
But I still think Miss S circumstances were unusual, and she shouldve recognised 
this, particularly when filling in her details to a price comparison site and realising 
that the options were probably designed for someone with a fixed home address. 
Given the address she had input when she applied, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to think the questions related to that same address, which is the 
address the business is assessing the risk of the policy against, so I dont think she 
took reasonable care when she answered the above questions.
If a misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless then CIDRA says its careless. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless and so I agree Ss misrepresentation was careless.
We have a statement from Watfords underwriter that explains that if the policy 
holder resides at a houseboat, caravan or mobile home they must have done so 
permanently for at least three years with the same postcode in order to obtain 
cover. Miss S has explained that she did not have a postcode for the boat as she 
regularly travels, and the boat is not in a fixed location. The underwriter has 
confirmed had it known this at the time she applied, it wouldnt have provided her 
with cover.
So Ive looked at the actions Watford can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA 
states that where a business would not have offered cover, the business can:
avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation.
return any unused premiums the consumer paid.
But Schedule 1, Part 1 of CIDRA also states that - 9 (9) Nothing in this 
paragraph affects any contractual right to terminate the contract but only where 
the matter relates to a careless misrepresentation and there isnt an outstanding 
claim.
In the circumstances of this case, there has been a careless misrepresentation but 
the claim Miss S had originally made has been withdrawn. So Watford has 
exercised its contractual right to terminate the contract, rather than choosing to void it, which it is allowed to do. So Ive gone on to look at whether I think Watford 
cancelled the policy fairly.
Watfords policy states that:
we have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during Your 
Policy Period, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so. 
We will still send Our cancellation letter to the latest address We have for 
You and will set out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Valid reasons 
allowing us to immediately cancel may include but are not limited to:
b. Where You have carelessly misrepresented relevant information which, if 
correctly represented at the time of application, would have caused Us to 
decline Your application for cover
Ive determined above that Im satisfied Miss S has made a careless 
misrepresentation at the point she took out the policy. And Im satisfied, that 
reason b above applies to Miss S circumstances. So I think that in this instance 
Watford is entitled to cancel her policy.
Watford said its fraud department called Miss S when it realised the address 
discrepancy, and explained that the policy would need to be cancelled either by 
Watford or by Miss S. It said that at this stage Miss S did not agree to cancel the 
policy, so it recorded the cancellation as insurer imposed which means Miss S 
will need to declare that she has previously had insurance cancelled when 
applying for other policies.
I can see from the letter that was sent to Miss S on 18 April 2019 that, despite 
Watfords terms stating it could cancel immediately, it did give Miss S seven days 
notice before it cancelled her policy. And I think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And, as the letter set out that the policy would be cancelled from 25 
April 2019, I think Watford made it clear to Miss S the date on which the policy 
would end.
When an insurer cancels a policy, we think its fair for the business to retain the 
premiums for the time on cover. But it should refund any unused premiums the 
customer may have paid for any period beyond the cancellation date (as set out in 
Watfords terms). And while an incident had occurred when Miss S was on cover, 
she had already withdrawn this claim. So I dont think it was reasonable of Watford 
to think this incident would still give rise to a claim. So therefore I dont think its 
entitled to pursue any monies for the period beyond the point of cancellation.
Watford has since agreed with the above point, but Miss S said she paid for the full 
cost of the policy beyond the cancellation date, to avoid the debt being passed to 
debt recovery agents. If this is the case, and Watford hasnt done so already, it 
should refund this amount. It is however entitled to retain the premiums paid for the 
period Miss S was insured.
What the business should do to put things right
Watford should, if it hasnt already, take the following steps to put things right: refund any unused premiums paid towards Miss S policy, relating to 
the period of cover after the policy was cancelled (which was from 
25 April 2019); and
 ensure that no fraud markers are recorded against Miss S on any 
internal or external databases
Miss S responded to this provisional decision and said she felt it was fair. She asked 
whether she would need to notify future insurers that shed had a policy cancelled; and also 
whether Watfords offer of £75 compensation was still to be paid. 
The investigator said that Miss S would need to disclose the cancellation; and confirmed that 
we expected the business to pay the £75 it had offered, and she emailed Watford to confirm 
this. 
Watford responded and said it noted the contents of the investigators email, and that it had 
nothing further to add. So as both parties have now responded, Im ready to issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Further to the above, neither party has raised any further arguments in response to my 
provisional decision. So for that reason, I see no reason to depart from what I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Miss S complaint and require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited, if it hasnt already, to:
- refund any unused premiums paid towards Miss S policy, relating to the period of 
cover after the policy was cancelled (which was from 25 April 2019);
- pay Miss S £75 in compensation; and
- ensure that no fraud markers are recorded against Miss S on any internal or 
external databases
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman