DRN-1149019
Complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card 
that she took out in 1995 from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Background
I can see Mrs S has already been offered some money back for part of the commission 
Barclays says it got from selling her the PPI. Our adjudicator then looked at this case said 
there wasnt enough evidence to uphold the complaint about the actual mis-sale of the PPI. 
But Mrs S disagreed and still thinks she shouldnt have been sold PPI in the first place. She 
has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint about the mis-sale.
Mrs S said she couldnt remember much about the sale but I can see she filled out a postal 
application form. Whilst I dont doubt Mrs S genuinely now feels she was mis-sold the policy, 
the application form gave what appears to me to be an obvious and clear choice to either 
have, or not have, this type cover with her new card. Mrs S ticked the relevant box to add the 
PPI policy and she signed the form too. So I think its clear enough that she consented to the 
policy at the time although I accept she might not remember this some 25 years later.
This was a postal application and so I think Mrs S would have made her way through the 
application form without any intervention from Barclays. I also think she would have done 
this in her own time. So it wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt therefore need to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs S. The decision about buying the cover and 
whether it was right for her was for Mrs S to make. 
I can certainly see some ways in which the postal application form could have been set out 
in a better way, but overall this doesnt change what I think. I say this because the evidence 
does tend to show Mrs S wanted this type of protection. I also think the application leaflet 
would have contained some brief information about the policy. Mrs S was also eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
I also note the PPI was set out regularly in the monthly statements she would have received 
over many years. I think if she hadnt wanted the PPI, she would have been prompted at 
some stage to ask why she was being charged.
Looking at the work she did, I agree Mrs S may have had some sickness protection already. 
But this doesnt necessarily mean the cover wasnt of value to her. The PPI would have paid 
out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This 
would have been in addition to any other means she had at that time. So I think this policy was of use and thats probably why she agreed to buy it. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs S but Im not upholding her complaint about the mis-sale.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything. My 
understanding is that it has already offered her compensation for the commission element I 
mentioned at the start of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman