DRN-3237976
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of a claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
Ive referred to Great Lakes throughout this decision even though when it provided its 
service it was operating under a trading name. 
What happened
In October 2010 Mrs K took out a Great Lakes policy to cover one of her dogs. She had 
previously insured the dog with another insurer. In February 2021 Mrs K reported a problem 
with her dogs teeth. Her vets referred the dog to a specialist vet who treated the dog in 
June 2021. 
Mrs K claimed on her policy for the cost of the treatment. Great Lakes turned down Mrs Ks 
claim. It said her dogs dental issue had already existed when she bought her policy. And as 
the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions, Great Lakes said that the claim wasnt 
covered. Mrs K complained about that and aspects of Great Lakes service. In reply, it 
acknowledged that some of its service could have been better; it upheld those parts of 
Mrs Ks complaint. But it felt its decision not to pay Mrs Ks claim was the right one. 
Mrs K brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He thought it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to refuse to cover the claim for Mrs Ks dogs lower teeth. But he 
thought it should have covered the costs of the vets treatment for the upper teeth. So he 
said it should pay that part of the claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. He 
added that it should reimburse Mrs K for any payments shed made towards that treatment 
and add simple interest to any sums reimbursed. 
Mrs K accepted our investigators assessment of the complaint but Great Lakes didnt. So 
its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mrs K referred to a number of points. I've considered everything on 
file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to refer to each and every event or issue. 
Instead I will focus on what I see as the key outstanding matters following our investigators 
assessment of the complaint.
Mrs Ks policy says it won't cover pre-existing conditions. And it defines a pre-existing 
condition as anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the last 
24 months.
Mrs K made her claim around nine months after she bought the policy. When Great Lakes 
was looking into the claim, it noted her dogs vets had recorded, in August 2019 that theyd 
told Mrs K that two of her dogs lower front teeth were fractured. The vets noted theyd 
advised Mrs K to have the teeth removed or for her dog to be referred to a specialist. But 
Mrs K didnt go ahead with dental treatment at that time. 
Great Lakes said the treatment Mrs K claimed for in June 2021 related to the same teeth her 
vets had given her advice about in August 2019. Great Lakes said that as the advice was 
within 24 months of her claim, the dental condition was pre-existing and not covered by the 
policy. So it turned down all of her claim. 
Ive looked carefully at the clinical notes from both Mrs Ks usual vets and the specialist vet 
who did the dental work. Having done so I think its clear that the specialist vet did treat the 
two lower jaw teeth that her usual vets had advised her about treatment for in August 2019. 
And as Mrs K policy defines a pre-existing condition as anything a vet had provided advice 
for in the previous 24 months, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to refuse to cover the 
treatment for those two lower teeth.
But the specialist vet didnt only treat two teeth in Mrs Ks dogs lower jaw; she also treated 
two of the dogs teeth in the upper jaw. In the report of the treatment given, the specialist vet 
has clearly referred to treating four separate teeth. When describing that work shes used a 
numbering system commonly used in vets practice for identifying the teeth treated. She 
carried out root canal work to three teeth: identified by numbers, 304, 404 & 108. She also 
took out (extracted) another tooth identified as tooth number 101.
I understand the teeth numbered 304 and 404 are whats known as lower canines; those are 
the teeth Mrs Ks usual vets referred to in their August 2019 clinical notes. But the two other 
teeth, 101 and 108, are both found in the upper right quadrant of the dogs jaw. And I can't 
find any reference in the vets notes to any treatment, medication, or advice given about 
those teeth prior to the referral to the specialist vet in 2021. 
So, I don't think the issues concerning the two upper teeth, numbered 101 and 108,  were 
pre-existing. It follows that I dont think it was fair for Great Lakes to refuse to cover the cost 
of the treatment for those two upper jaw teeth. As such, Great Lakes should cover the cost 
of the treatment for those teeth now, subject to the remaining terms and excesses of the 
policy. And, if Mrs K has already paid any part of the costs of that treatment (for the upper 
jaw teeth) then it should reimburse her and add simple interest to the amount reimbursed as 
set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to cover the costs of Mrs Ks claim for the treatment to her dogs upper jaw 
teeth  identified by the specialist vet as teeth number 101 and 108, subject to the 
remaining policy terms. If Mrs K has already paid any of the costs for the treatment to 
those upper teeth Great Lakes should reimburse her the sum(s) paid and add simple 
interest to the amount reimbursed, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date Mrs K paid 
those sums to the date it reimburses her1.
1 If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman