DRN-1616470
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him an Additions Plus 
packaged bank account in December 2007.
What happened
Our adjudicators have looked into Mr Ps complaint already and they didnt think that 
Barclays mis-sold the packaged account. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at his complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. 
Ive carefully thought about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done so, Im 
not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr P was given a clear choice in taking the account. 
At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what I think is most likely to have 
happened I have weighed up what Mr P and Barclays have been able to provide me with.
In this instance Mr P had held a fee-free account for a number of years. So I think that he 
wouldve been aware that free accounts were available and an option for him. I note that Mr 
P has mentioned that Barclays encouraged him to take out the Additions Plus account, but 
he has not said that he was given no choice but to upgrade his account. So I think that 
overall he agreed to the upgrade knowing that he did not have to if he did not wish to.
Based on the evidence that is available, Im not persuaded that Barclays recommended the 
Additions Plus account to Mr P. I say this because as it does not seem that there was a 
discussion of Mr Ps circumstances and needs which I wouldve expected had a personal 
recommendation been made. This means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did need to give Mr P enough information for him to be able to do this himself.
I think the main benefits of the account wouldve been highlighted to Mr P as after all, 
Barclays wouldve wanted to make the account seem attractive to him. And it does seem as 
if he was given some information about how to use these benefits.  This is demonstrated by 
him registering bank cards for the card protection cover, completing a medical assessment 
for the travel insurance and using the will writing service.
Ive seen what Mr Ps said about already having medical conditions and that they wouldnt 
have been covered. But his contact with the travel insurance provider to discuss them does 
suggest that he did, at the very least, receive information on the need to contact it in order to 
discuss his conditions. And it also suggests that he was relying on the cover. Equally as Mr 
P kept the account after having had to declare his medical conditions, I cant really say that 
any possible failure to tell him this when the account was being sold wouldve stopped him 
from taking it in the first place.
I note Mr Ps said that he had alternative cover in place for the mobile phone insurance, 
breakdown cover and travel insurance. But ultimately, I think that he couldve used the cover 
that came with the account if he chose to do so and it was his choice whether to use the 
cover that came with the account or to continue with separate cover.
I accept that Mr P may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
Additions Plus came with. But I cant see anything specific that he was not told that I think 
wouldve altered his decision to agree to the account.
Mr P may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that he hasnt benefitted from the 
account as much as hed hoped and expected to when he initially took it out. And given what 
he mightve read and heard about packaged accounts in general, I can understand why this 
might lead him to believe his account was mis-sold. But as explained earlier, I have to base 
my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of the sale and I cant 
use hindsight when reaching my conclusion.
Mr P says he knows of a someone else who was sold the same account and yet when they 
complained their complaint was upheld. I should stress that we look at cases on an 
individual basis and in the specific circumstances of Mr Ps complaint I dont think that the 
Additions Plus account was mis-sold. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for him 
as he clearly feels strongly that his account was mis-sold, but I dont think that Barclays did 
anything significantly wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman