DRN-4398586
The complaint
N complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled its claim on its motor 
insurance policy and that it declined the claim. 
Mr B is a director of N and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
N owned a vehicle that was insured by Admiral. In November 2022 Mr B made a claim on 
Ns policy after the vehicle suddenly stopped while it was being used. He said hed taken it to 
a garage and theyd identified a problem with the fuel in the tank. 
Admiral said a fuel test would be required and that it would send him a kit through the post. 
However this didnt arrive and Mr B had to chase Admiral over the months that followed. 
In February 2023 the kit arrived and the fuel was tested. The results showed that there was 
an elevated level of water and biodiesel in the fuel. Based on this, Admiral declined the 
claim. It said the issue was due to mis-fuelling and this was excluded under the policy. 
Mr B made a complaint. He said Admiral had taken too long dealing with his claim and this 
had meant he was without a vehicle for many months. Hed also had to chase Admiral for 
any updates and on occasions had been left on hold for nearly two hours.  
Admiral upheld his complaint and agreed the service it had provided had been poor. It 
offered £200 compensation. 
Mr B didnt think this was enough. He said he also thought Admiral had unfairly declined his 
claim, as he hadnt put the wrong fuel in the vehicle, but instead it had just been 
contaminated as it was filled from a tank rather than at a petrol station. He brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
didnt think Admiral had acted fairly by declining the claim, as Mr B had put the correct fuel in 
the vehicle, it just contained increased levels of biodiesel and water. So she didnt think this 
fairly amounted to misfuelling. She thought it should reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. And while she agreed it had provided a poor service, 
she thought it had done enough to put things right by offering £200 compensation. 
Mr B accepted our investigators outcome. However Admiral didnt. It said that Mr B hadnt 
complained about the decline of the claim in his original complaint. However if he had it 
would have maintained the decline as the report on the fuel confirmed that the sample didnt 
conform to the diesel fuel specification. So while diesel had been put in the vehicle, it was 
the wrong type of diesel. So this amounted to misfuelling and wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy term Admiral has relied on is as follows:
We will not pay
9 For any loss or damage caused by using the incorrect type of fuel or failing to keep the 
correct amount of lubricant in your vehicle
Ive considered whether its applied this fairly in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the report from the fuel test. The report confirms that the fuel tested was 
diesel. However the results show that it was made up of 9.75% biodiesel, where the 
maximum to conform with the specification for the vehicle would be 7%. And the water 
content was at 0.37%, where the maximum to conform would be 0.02%.
The policy terms state that where damage is caused by using the incorrect type of fuel it 
isnt covered. Here, the correct type of fuel was used  diesel rather than petrol. However 
the fuel appears to contain slightly higher levels of biodiesel and water than the vehicle 
requires. 
Mr B has explained that as he uses the vehicle primarily on a farm, he sometimes fills it up 
with fuel from a tank on the farm rather than from a petrol station. And this may mean the 
fuel was contaminated with sediment from the farm. And this is a reasonable explanation. 
Further, the test on the fuel wasnt carried out until five months after the vehicle had stopped 
working and the fuel tank was removed. So there is a chance the fuel in the tank could have 
been contaminated by the elements at this stage, rather than when the fuel was originally 
put in the tank. Based on this, I dont agree that the vehicle was damaged due to Mr B using 
the incorrect type of fuel and therefore the exclusion hasnt been fairly applied. 
I also note that Admiral has said that Mr B changed his story from the first notification of the 
claim, after he found out about the exclusion. Ive listened to the calls between Mr B and 
Admiral. In the first call Mr B said that the garage thought it was accidental mis-fuel of some 
kind and he went on to say he thought it was likely his mistake. In this call he didnt confirm 
where the car was fuelled. In later calls he confirms that he often fuels the vehicle from a 
tank and this could be where contamination took place. While he said the alleged mis-
fuelling was likely his mistake, he didnt say how the tank was filled or that the wrong fuel 
was used in the first call. And he didnt give more detail about this until the second call. So I 
dont agree he changed his version of events. 
Based on all the evidence I dont think Admiral acted fairly by declining Mr Bs claim.  I 
therefore agree with our investigator that admiral should re-consider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions without applying the exclusion for the incorrect fuel. 
Ive also considered the service Admiral provided throughout the claim. I agree it took far 
longer to resolve than I would have expected. From looking at the claim notes provided it 
seems that Admiral did little to progress the claim in the first month. And this meant Mr B had 
to get in touch with it to move the claim along. Hes shown that he had to be on the phone for 
a significant time while he waited to speak to someone. This would have been very 
inconvenient. I can see that in December Admiral said it sent out a fuel test, but that this didnt arrive with 
Mr B. As there were postal strikes at that time, its likely this was the cause of the issue. So I 
cant hold Admiral responsible for this delay. However after this time it still took until 
February for the test to be received and returned, which meant a decision on the claim 
wasnt made until February 2023. 
Based on this, I agree Admiral caused some avoidable delays throughout this claim. 
However its offered £200 to make up for the inconvenience its caused and this is in line 
with what I would have directed if it hadnt made an offer. So I wont ask it to do any more in 
this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ns complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to reconsider its claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
without applying the exclusion for incorrect fuel.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman