DRN-3213827
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Number One Police Credit Union Limited (trading as No 1 CopperPot 
Credit Union) provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr A took out a number of loans with CopperPot Credit Union (CPCU), on the following 
basis:
Loan 
numberDate Amount 
borrowedTerm 
(months)APR Monthly 
repaymentPurpose
1 24/5/16 5000 36 5.9% £151.40 Consolidation and 
vehicle repairs
2 27/5/16 5000 36 5.9% £302.71 Vehicle purchase
3 26/6/16 7500 90 Unclear £244.04 Consolidation
4 13/7/16 650 5 9.9% £134 Holiday loan
5 21/11/16 500 10 9.9% £53 Christmas loan
6 6/1/17 7000 90 6.9% £331.85 Consolidation
Mr A applied for a number of other loans from CPCU that were declined on the grounds of 
unaffordability. 
Mr A complained to CPCU in April 2021. He said that he thought CPCU had been 
irresponsible when lending to him and didnt conduct sufficient checks prior to agreeing the 
lending. 
CPCU didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that before granting each of the 
loans, it had assessed Mr As income and expenditure and reviewed credit file information, 
to check affordability. It said that it had turned down a request for a loan from Mr A in May 
2015 due to adverse credit information. It said it agreed the first loan in May 2016 because it 
could see that Mr As financial situation had clearly improved. 
CPCU said that after granting the final loan in January 2017, it supported Mr A after he 
experienced further issues that could not have foreseen by CPCU. 
Mr A remained unhappy and referred his concerns to this Service. He said that he had a 
gambling addiction and maintained that he didnt think CPCU had carried out sufficient 
checks before agreeing to lend. 
An investigator upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that when CPCU agreed to 
provide Mr A with lending, there were signs he was having trouble managing his money. 
Given this and bearing in mind the size and length of the loans and other relevant factors, he 
thought that CPCU ought to have gone further than it did to check that Mr A would be able to 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
Mr As bank statements showed that he was spending vast sums of money on gambling 
transactions. The investigator thought that if CPCU had found this out (which it likely 
wouldve done had it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks), it wouldnt have lent 
to him. 
CPCU disagreed. It asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman and made 
reference to an ombudsmans decision on another case involving a different credit union  
saying that this set a precedent and acknowledged that the purpose of credit unions is to 
help those who may have more difficult financial circumstances. 
I shared some provisional thoughts with both parties:
I acknowledge CPCUs reference to another decision issued by another ombudsman on an 
affordability case involving another Credit Union. I dont agree that this decision sets a 
precedent for Credit Unions. Each case is considered on its own merit. The fact that the 
purpose of Credit Unions (as stated by CPCU) is to help those who may have more difficult 
financial situations, doesnt automatically mean that all loans that have been granted will 
have been affordable. I also note that CPCU declined a number of loan applications both 
before and after granting the first loan in May 2016. However, this also doesnt necessarily 
mean that all of the loans that were granted, were affordable and responsibly lent.
I note that the agreements in question arent regulated ones that technically come under 
CONC. However, given the nature of the services provided by CPCU and its wider 
obligations, I consider that it would've been good industry practice for CPCU to have regard 
for the CONC rules, when deciding whether or not to grant the lending.
From looking at the file, it appears that the checks CPCU carried out ahead of granting 
each loan, were centred around income and expenditure as declared by Mr A and having 
regard to some credit file information. The first thing I need to consider is whether CPCU 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks ahead of agreeing to lend. If it did, I need 
to consider whether fair lending decisions were then made, given what those checks 
showed. If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider 
what such checks wouldve involved and what that would likely have shown (and what a 
reasonable lending decision wouldve looked like, bearing in mind that information).
There are a number of factors that influence what is likely to represent a reasonable 
and proportionate check for any given lending. But with that said, I think that a 
reasonable check should generally have been more thorough:
The lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
The longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for 
an extended period); and
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated financing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Loan one
Mr A applied to borrow £5,000 over 36 months, at an APR of 5.9%, with a monthly loan 
repayment of £151.40. According to CPCUs records, the loan was applied for to repay 
some car finance and pay for some car repairs. The key consideration for this loan in terms 
of whether the checks carried out were satisfactory, is whether it was reasonable and proportionate for CPCU to rely on the income and expenditure figures provided by Mr A, 
given all other relevant factors  including the size and length of the loan and his wider 
circumstances. And I dont think it was.
In the context of Mr As overall circumstances (including his level of income), the loan 
amount and term were not insignificant. And whilst CPCUs notes indicate that it considered 
Mr As credit file was in better shape than when he had first applied for a loan in March 
2015, I think there were a number of things from his credit file that ought to have led CPCU 
to consider that it needed to go further than it did to verify Mr As income and expenditure. 
While the defaults showing on the information in March 2015 were, by May 2016, more 
historic, there were nevertheless signs that Mr A had potentially been experiencing some 
difficulty managing his finances in the lead up to applying for the loan in May 2016. I say 
this because the credit file information in May 2016 showed that Mr A had 29 settled 
accounts  up from 11 showing on the March 2015 information.
This of itself indicated that Mr A appeared to be relying on credit  seemingly more so than 
when he had applied for a loan in March 2015. The March 2016 information also showed 
that Mr A had taken out a loan in February that year, with a term of 36 months. As well as 
a number of home credit loan accounts which started in 2015, had gotten into arrears and 
that were settled in April 2016. Mr A was also showing as being over the limit on a credit 
card. I think that these things combined ought to have suggested to CPCU that Mr A may 
still have been struggling at that point. And I think this means it ought to have sought to 
verify his income and expenditure, to ensure that he would be able to repay the loan on a 
sustainable basis.
CPCU could have carried out more detailed checks in a number of ways  from asking for 
bank statements to copies of bills etc. Mr A provided the investigator with bank statements. 
They include the three month period leading up to the granting of this loan. I accept that 
something I can now see from information Mr A has provided wouldnt necessarily have 
been disclosed by whatever reasonable and proportionate checks the CPCU might have 
decided to carry out. However, in the absence of any other contemporaneous evidence of 
Mr As financial circumstances from CPCU, and as were now a number of years on from 
when he was lent to, its not only reasonable but necessary to rely on his bank statements.
The statements provided by Mr A show a very large turnover compared to his employment 
income. For example, in February 2016 there was approximately £11,000 going into and 
leaving his account. All of the statements show substantial gambling transactions. The 
March and April statements also show evidence of Payday Loan transactions. Had CPCU 
found out about the extent of Mr As gambling (as I think it most likely would, if it had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks), I think it would reasonably have 
considered it irresponsible to provide Mr A with the loan. It would also reasonably have 
concluded that Mr A would be unlikely to be able to repay the loan on a sustainable basis.
Loan 2
Mr A applied to borrow another £5,000 over 36 months, at an APR of 5.9%, bringing the 
total monthly loan repayment at that point, to £302.71. Given the close proximity to loan 1 
(it appears this top-up was granted 3 days later), the same analysis as regards the 
proportionality of the affordability checks carried out  and affordability (/responsible 
lending) applies.
Loan 3
It appears that Mr A extended his borrowing in June 2016 (around one month later), 
consolidating loans 1 & 2 and increasing his borrowing by £7,500. The loan term 
substantially increased to 90 months. Because of the significant increase to the loan term, the monthly repayment amount actually decreased (to £244.04), despite the increased 
borrowing.
Again, given the close proximity to both loans 1 & 2 (and bearing in mind that Mr A was 
borrowing even more and over a significantly longer term), the same analysis as regards 
the proportionality of the affordability checks carried out  and affordability (/responsible 
lending) applies.
Loan 4
This loan appears to have been stand-alone, running alongside Loan 3. Mr A applied for 
this loan in July 2016 (around one month after loan 3 and only two months after loans 1 & 
2). This loan was a holiday loan for £650, with a term of 5 months, an APR of 9.9% and a 
monthly repayment of £134. Although this loan was for a much smaller amount and a 
relatively short term, it nevertheless represented additional borrowing shortly after Mr A 
had significantly increased his indebtedness through loans 1 to 3. Bearing all of this in 
mind, I think the same fundamental analysis for proportionality and affordability applies to 
this loan as well.
Loan 5
This loan also appears to have been stand-alone, running alongside Loans 3 & 4 (albeit 
loan 4 was shortly to come to an end). Mr A applied for this loan in November 2016 
(around four months after loan 4). This loan was a Christmas loan for £500, with a term of 
10 months, an APR of 9.9% and a monthly repayment amount of £53. Although again this 
loan was for a relatively small amount and over a relatively short term, it once again 
represented additional borrowing shortly after Mr A had significantly increased his 
indebtedness through loans 1 to 4. Notwithstanding that CPCU wouldnt likely have 
granted any of the loans after finding out about the extent of Mr As gambling in the early 
part of 2016, in addition this pattern of repeat borrowing ought to have led CPCU to 
consider that providing Mr A with this loan probably wasnt in his best interests. I think 
there ought to have been considerable doubt that the loan repayments would be 
sustainable. The evidence suggests that CPCU was aware of this at the time, with notes 
on file saying as much, but then agreeing to the loan anyway.
Loan 6
This loan appears to have been primarily for some further debt consolidation, running 
alongside Loans 3 & 5. It looks like this loan was for an additional £7,000 and increased his 
overall borrowing with CPCU to over £23,000. The term of the new loan was 90 months, an 
APR of 6.9% and a monthly repayment amount of £331.85. This loan represented a 
significant increase to what was already a significant amount borrowed, over a significant 
period of time. Again, notwithstanding that CPCU may well not have granted any of the 
loans after finding out about the extent of Mr As gambling in the early part of 2016, I again 
think that, in any case, this pattern of repeat and increased borrowing ought to have led 
CPCU to consider that providing more lending probably wasnt in Mr As best interests.
In addition, by this point, Mr As credit file was indicating that he was really struggling with 
his finances. He was in substantial arrears on a number of loans. Bearing all of this in mind, 
I think CPCU ought to have realised that the repayments on this loan were very unlikely to 
be sustainable.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr A in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loans in question.However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr A 
was given the loans which have since been used and, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr A back in the position he would be 
in if he hadnt been given the loans in the first place.
Bearing this in mind, I think the following gets as close as possible to putting Mr A back
into the position he should be in now and represents fair compensation:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr A has paid to date on all six loans in
question.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the amount 
calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to any 
historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr A. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back 
to Mr A and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to all six loans, as 
a result of the interest and charges.
I asked CPCU to let me know by 27 July whether it agreed to settle the case on this basis 
or, if not, to provide any further evidence and arguments for me to consider. I said that if it 
wasnt willing to settle the case, I would need its comments on the following:
The notes on the file you have provided indicate that you didnt immediately agree to 
provide Mr A with loan number 3. It looks like you told Mr A that in order to further consider 
the application, he would need to provide further information, including a copy of recent bank 
statements. Notes on file then indicate that Mr A said he no longer wanted to continue with 
the application. Bearing this in mind, why was the lending subsequently granted? Did Mr A 
provide the additional information and, if so, what did he provide and can you provide us with 
a copy?
CPCU didnt provide a response. 
When sharing my provisional thoughts with Mr A, I asked him to provide any further 
evidence or arguments in support of his case. I also asked Mr A to comment on the 
following:
The February 2016 bank statement shows lots of (name of e-wallet company) transactions 
(out). What were these transactions in relation to? The same statement also shows transfers 
in of more than £6,000 from what looks like another account in your name. What were these 
payments in relation to  were they gambling winnings, or something else?
The March 2016 bank statements show £2,500 payment in from (name of payee). What 
was this in relation to?
Mr A responded to say that he agreed with my findings. In response to my questions, he said 
in summary, that the transactions in question were all related to gambling and that the 
£6,000 in from another account in his name was most likely gambling winnings.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in full, for essentially the same reasoning as set out 
in my provisional thoughts, which form part of this decision. 
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
First, an explanation about my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point 
thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think 
are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. 
But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind 
all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing 
that.
CPCU hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments in response to the provisional 
thoughts that I shared with both parties. The information Mr A has provided in response 
reinforces the extent of his gambling before CPCU granted him the first and subsequent 
loans.
As set out in my provisional findings, the agreements in question arent regulated ones that 
technically come under CONC. However, given the nature of the services provided by CPCU 
and its wider obligations, I still consider that it would've been good industry practice for 
CPCU to have regard for the CONC rules, when deciding whether or not to grant the 
lending.
As such, this case turns on whether the checks CPCU carried out before agreeing to 
provide Mr A with each loan, were reasonable and proportionate  given relevant factors. If 
they were, I need to consider whether fair lending decisions were made. If the checks 
werent reasonable and proportionate, I need to consider what such checks wouldve 
involved and what they would likely have shown (and what a reasonable lending decision 
wouldve looked like, bearing in mind that information. 
For each of the six loans, it appears that the checks CPCU carried out ahead of granting 
each loan, were centred around income and expenditure as declared by Mr A and having 
regard to some credit file information.
Loans 1 to 3
I still find that the checks CPCU carried out werent reasonable and proportionate. I say this 
because bearing in mind Mr As overall circumstances (including his level of income), the 
loan amounts and terms were not insignificant. And whilst CPCUs notes indicate that it 
considered Mr As credit file was in better shape than when he had first applied for a loan in 
March 2015, I still think there were a number of things from his credit file that ought to have 
led CPCU to consider that it needed to go further than it did to verify Mr As income and 
expenditure (detailed in the provisional findings earlier in this decision, which dont need 
repeating here). As set out in my provisional findings, CPCU could have carried out more detailed checks in 
a number of ways  from asking for bank statements to copies of bills etc. Mr A provided 
us with bank statements. They include the three-month period leading up to the granting of 
loans 1 to 3. I accept that something I can now see from information Mr A has provided 
wouldnt necessarily have been disclosed by whatever reasonable and proportionate 
checks the CPCU might have decided to carry out. However, in the absence of any other 
contemporaneous evidence of Mr As financial circumstances from CPCU, and as were 
now a number of years on from when he was lent to, I still find that its not only reasonable 
but necessary to rely on his bank statements.
As detailed in my provisional findings, the bank statements show, amongst other things, that 
Mr A was spending substantial amounts of money on gambling transactions. Had CPCU 
been aware of his, it couldnt reasonably have considered it responsible to provide him with 
any of these loans. 
Loan 4
Although this loan was stand-alone and much smaller (amount and term), the same 
fundamental analysis for proportionality and affordability applies to this loan as well. By this 
point, CPCU ought to have also factored in that Mr A had frequently sought to borrow 
money in a short period of time  indicating an increasing reliance on credit.  
Loan 5
Notwithstanding that CPCU wouldnt likely have granted any of the loans after finding out 
about the extent of Mr As gambling in the early part of 2016, in addition the pattern of 
repeat borrowing that had emerged by this point ought reasonably to have led CPCU to 
consider that providing Mr A with this loan probably wasnt in his best interests, based on 
what it knew. I still think there ought to have been considerable doubt that the loan 
repayments would be sustainable. The evidence suggests that CPCU was aware of this at 
the time, with notes on file saying as much, but then agreeing to the loan anyway.
Loan 6
Again, notwithstanding that CPCU may well not have granted any of the loans after finding 
out about the extent of Mr As gambling in the early part of 2016, I again think that, in any 
case, this pattern of repeat and increased borrowing ought to have led CPCU to consider 
that providing more lending probably wasnt in Mr As best interests. In addition, by this 
point, Mr As credit file was indicating that he was really struggling with his finances. He 
was in substantial arrears on a number of loans. Bearing all of this in mind, I still think 
CPCU ought to have realised that the repayments on this loan were very unlikely to be 
sustainable.
Given what Mr A has said about the extent to which he was struggling and has continued to 
struggle with his finances, I think this means that something went wrong that needs to be 
put right. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr A in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loans in question.However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr A 
was given the loans which have since been used and, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr A back in the position he would be 
in if he hadnt been given the loans in the first place.
Bearing this in mind, I still think the following gets as close as possible to putting Mr A back
into the position he should be in now and represents fair compensation:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr A has paid to date on all six loans in
question.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the amount 
calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to any 
historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr A. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back 
to Mr A and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to all six loans, as 
a result of the interest and charges.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint about Number One Police Credit Union 
Limited (trading as No 1 CopperPot Credit Union) and direct it to do what Ive said above 
under putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman