DRN-2963203
The complaint
Mrs Ps representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd (the business).
In short, the CMC says:
The business didnt establish Mrs Ps risk appetite.
Mrs P was advised to take out life cover, even though she didnt want it.
No alternative investments were discussed.
The plan charges and structure made the investment unsuitable. The Illustration 
showed that the charges reduced the growth rate to 2.4% per annum.
In January 2001, the Bank of England (BoE) base rate was 6% which meant the 
recommendation produced a lower return and wasnt beneficial for Mrs P.
What happened
In mid-July 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I cant safely
say that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs P.
Whilst its not entirely clear why she mightve needed more life cover, I think its likely given
the nominal cost and qualifying tax benefit  and the fact that she was married with
dependent children  additional life cover wasnt something she wouldve objected to. In
other words, her family probably wouldve benefited from additional cover.
I dont disagree with the investigators view regarding Mrs Ps capacity to invest and replace
any losses. Given her age and financial circumstances, Im satisfied that she was able to
invest £50 a month in a medium to long term risk-based investment. Im aware she had
previous savings plans and Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was risk averse. However,
having the capacity to invest and replace losses doesnt of itself render an unsuitable
recommendation suitable and its not entirely clear if Mrs P really needed another 10-year
savings plan or similar  Im not persuaded that she did.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the Illustration shows about the
different growth rates, that growth rates wouldve been significantly reduced by the charges.
So, whilst Mrs P may have been aware that there were no guarantees, this isnt the same
point, and I dont think she wouldve understood the impact of the charges.
Im mindful that even if the product was likely to reach the medium growth rate of 6%, which
was probably unlikely, that figure in real terms was closer to 2.4% owing to deductions not
including life cover. Given that the BoE base rate at the time was around 6%  which was
much higher than the realistic returns from the plan  Mrs P was probably better off putting
her money in a savings account where she wouldnt be subject to charges or elsewhere. I
cant see why Mrs P wouldnt want to do that if matters had been made clear to her at the
time.
Despite what the business says, I also dont think Mrs P wouldve been aware of the risks
involved. Whilst she might not have been a first time/inexperienced investor, she wasnt an
experienced investor either, and I dont think a plan invested in 75% in equities was suitable
for her  regardless of whether (or not) it was a medium/low risk investment. Im mindful of
the CMCs comments about Mrs Ps previous experience in With-Profits and not Uni-Linked
investments which I believe in this instance makes a material difference.
Theres also no evidence of any meaningful discussions taking place around risk and Mrs
Ps attitude to it. So, in this instance I cant safely say that the level of risk was suitable for
her. I note the fact find  which allows for a customer to identify their attitude to risk
regarding the investment  was incomplete. On balance this would suggest that there wasnt
any meaningful discussion around risk or any discussion that would enable Mrs P to
understand the risks involved.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps answer that she accepts the risks
associated with an asset backed investment, because on balance I dont think that she will
have understood what the risks were, despite having experience of savings plans. It looks
like Mrs P was only told that her investment could go up or down, and return less than she
invested.
In other words, Im not persuaded that she reasonably understood how the Unit-Linked plan
worked. And despite the points made by the investigator, Im mindful that the majority of her
£50 contribution was paid into equities.
Even if Mrs P was aware of the risks involved  which I dont think she was  it doesnt mean
that she was aware of how the deductions might affect the potential yield. In other words, on
balance, I cant safely say that that Mrs P wouldve followed the recommendation if the
impact of the charges had been made clear to her at the outset.
I appreciate that Mrs P was provided with certain policy documentation, but I dont believe
theres a correlation between the level of documentation provided by the business and the
level of her understanding of the risks over and beyond what shed be likely to perceive, on
the face of the papers, as fairly generous rates of return.
I should make clear that Im not upholding this complaint because of the poor returns due to
what happened in the stockmarket, which the business has no control over. Im upholding
this complaint because on balance its likely Mrs P didnt appreciate the volatility of an asset
backed investment or the impact of the charges on her savings and returns, which I dont
think she was aware of or understood.
For the sake of clarity, Ill also mention that this issue is separate to the plan being
surrendered just after the 2008 economic crisis that will have impacted not only on the plan
but also on financial markets generally.
Im mindful of the comments made by the CMC and the investigator. Despite other cases
being upheld, Im obliged to consider each case on its individual merits.
Its not my role to determine whether or not the plan is inherently wrong. Im just not
persuaded that it was suitable for Mrs P for the reasons Ive set out above, despite her
situation being different to the other cases that have been upheld for different reasons.
The CMC responded and accepted my provisional decision. It had no further points to add. Zurich also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
It was disappointed with the outcome of my decision. 
Mrs P received a Reason for Recommendation Letter which confirmed:
oyou are comfortable that the contributions to your plan will be invested in real 
assets such as equities, and property on your behalf. This means that the 
value of the plan is determined by the value of those assets and can do down 
as well as up in value. You confirmed you understood this. You told me that 
you were happy to maintain contributions to the plan for 10 years. The plan is 
not suitable for saving over the shorter term.
The Illustration confirmed that the return from the plan will depend on how the 
investment grows, and that the customer could get back less than they put in. Mrs P 
had this information at the point of sale and no complaint was made. 
The growth rates on the Illustration were prescribed by the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA) to be used by all regulated firms. The figures are estimated and arent 
guaranteed. 
The funds arent directly comparable to a building society account. 
The Unit-Linked investment funds had the potential to perform better than the 
illustrations. 
The Maximum Investment Plan (MIP) was a disciplined means of saving.  
Mrs P may well have had a different attitude to investing this sum in a fund carrying a 
balanced / diversified approach, because the intention was to invest in the medium to 
long term. 
The philosophy of the managed fund was to maintain a spread of investments both 
by asset type and economy to produce returns over the long term in keeping pace 
with inflation, which is better than a deposit-based account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the new submissions, my decision to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
Notwithstanding what Zurich says, I dont think that Mrs P was unaware that the investments 
could go up or down, or that the Illustration figures  regardless of whether (or not) they were 
prescribed by the PIA  were estimates that werent guaranteed. 
Im aware Mrs P had previous savings plans and Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was 
risk averse. However, she wasnt an experienced investor, and having the capacity to invest 
and replace losses doesnt of itself render an unsuitable recommendation suitable. Its also 
not entirely clear if Mrs P really needed another 10-year savings plan or similar. Im not 
persuaded that she did, and Zurich hasnt persuaded me otherwise.   
Despite what Zurich says, in this instance I still cant safely say that Mrs P was comfortable 
or content with the level of risk she was taking. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, 
Im still not satisfied that there was a meaningful discussion around risk and Mrs Ps attitude 
to it. So, in this instance I still cant safely say that the level of risk was suitable for her.As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the fact find  which allows for a customer to 
identify their attitude to risk regarding the investment  was incomplete. On balance this 
would suggest that there wasnt any meaningful discussion around risk or any discussion 
that would enable Mrs P to understand the risks involved.
So, in the circumstances I dont think a plan invested in 75% in equities was suitable for Mrs 
P. Im mindful of the CMCs comments about her previous experience in With-Profits and not 
Unit-Linked investments which on balance, in this instance I think makes a material 
difference to whether she would have understood the risk of being invested so heavily in 
equities.
  
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd must do the following:
Pay Mrs P compensation of D + E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mrs P received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date 
compensation is paid.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Zurich Assurance Ltd should calculate and pay Mrs P redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman