DRN-2096519
The complaint
Mr D complains about esure Insurance Limited and their valuation of his car after it was 
deemed a write-off.
What happened
Mr D made a claim on his car insurance policy with esure. Mr Ds car was deemed beyond 
economical repair (BER) and written off. So, esure made Mr D a settlement offer of £3,250 
which they thought was a fair valuation of his car.
Mr D didnt agree, and he raised a complaint. He didnt think the settlement offer was fair as 
the highest motor trade guide valuation esure found valued his car at £4,100. So, he thought 
thats the amount he should be offered. Mr D explained hed been unable to find a similar 
replacement car for less than £4,500. So, he didnt think esure had valued his car 
reasonably and this left him unable to find a suitable replacement.
But esure didnt agree. They explained the £4,100 valuation was an anomaly as it was much 
higher than the other three valuations provided from other motor trade guides. So, they 
thought theyd acted reasonably when calculating the settlement offer on those three only. 
They explained the £3,250 they offered was also in line with the independent engineers 
valuation of Mr Ds car. So, they thought it was a fair one and didnt think the offer should be 
increased. Mr D remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised Mr Ds 
difficulty at finding a replacement car. But he thought esure had acted fairly and inline with 
the guidelines we set. He explained its reasonable for business to discount anomalys as it 
prevents settlement offers from being increased or decreased unfairly. Hed checked the 
motor trade guides himself and found the valuation were similar to those used by esure. So, 
he thought esure acted fairly when valuing Mr Ds car and didnt think they needed to do 
anything further.
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained it was unfair for him to be left out of pocket and unable to 
replace his car. Especially as the reason for him needing to claim on his policy wasnt his 
fault. He mentioned his partner hadnt suffered the same problems when making a separate 
claim with another insurer, so he felt esure were being unreasonable. He still thought the 
higher valuation of £4,100 should be paid. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my decision on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mr D. Ive no doubt it would be 
inconvenient to be without a car. And even more so, when he wasnt at fault for the situation 
he found himself in. And I do appreciate Mr Ds unhappiness that hes been unable to 
purchase a car he thinks is suitable with the settlement offer esure have provided. But, for 
me to agree that esure have done something wrong, Id need to see their valuation of Mr Ds 
car is unreasonable and not in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Or, that they 
didnt follow industry guidelines when reaching this amount. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy explains that esures valuation of the car is based 
on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time 
of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: 
Glasss, Parkers and CAP.
Its not in dispute that esure used these motor trade guides and Ive seen they obtained four 
separate valuations. So, Im satisfied esure acted in line with their terms and conditions 
when valuing Mr Ds car. But Ive also considered whether this was fair.
Three of these valuations ranged between £3,063 and £3,378. A fourth guide provided a 
valuation of £4,100, which was a significant increase on the other three valuations. And this 
is the valuation Mr D thinks should be paid to him. But esure have explained they treated the 
£4,100 as an anomaly as it was substantially higher than the other three valuations. And 
they think the £3,250 is a reasonable offer in line with the other three valuation which also 
agrees with the engineers valuation. 
So, Ive thought about whether I think it was fair for esure to treat the valuation of £4,100 as 
an anomaly. And I think it was. When considering complaints about car valuations, when a 
valuation differs significantly from the other valuations obtained, we take the approach that 
its reasonable to discount this from the average valuation thats calculated. And I think the 
valuation of £4,100 was significantly different as it was 20% higher than the average of the 
other three.
We take this approach as it protects customers and ensures the valuation is as fair as 
possible. For example, if one valuation was significantly lower than the others, the average 
valuation would be negatively affected. And it wouldnt be fair for a much lower offer to be 
made when most of the valuations provide a higher value. And as we take this approach, it 
must be applied to both higher and lower anomalies to ensure the valuation process used by 
insurers remains fair.
Thats not to say I dont understand where Mr D is coming from. I can understand why Mr D 
wants the highest valuation of his car. And I do understand why this would be even more 
important when Mr D was unable to find a car he felt was a like for like replacement. But it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold esure responsible for the cost of comparable cars being 
advertised on a retail basis. The prices cars are advertised for by retailers doesnt 
necessarily represent the price they are sold. The reason motor trade guides are 
recommended is to allow for the fact independent retailers can advertise cars for a higher 
price than what they sell for. The motor trade guides will only consider actual sale prices, so 
are used to generate a fair and reasonable valuation.
So, I think the settlement offer esure have offered is fair as falls in line with the three 
valuations considered and its also the valuation generated by the engineer who inspected 
Mr Ds car. Because of this, I dont think esure need to do anything further. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. But I hope this explanation goes 
some way to reassuring him that esure have valued his car fairly, in line with what wed 
expect and industry guidelines.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman