DRN-3244884
Complaint
Mr B says that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclays) unfairly defaulted two overdrafts 
and a loan.
Background and my provisional decision of 20 December 2021
Mr B had two current accounts and a loan with Barclays. Barclays passed these accounts to 
its collections department as they were in arrears and the accounts were eventually 
defaulted. 
Mr B was unhappy because he said he was told to take a payment holiday and as soon as 
the holiday finished the account was passed to collections without him having the chance to 
repay what he owed.  
On 20 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on       
Mr Bs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
 
I started by saying that it wasnt in dispute that Mr B got in contact with Barclays, in 2017, to 
explain that he was experiencing financial difficulty due to being unable to work because of a 
wrist injury. And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty we 
would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of 
their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Mr B, Barclays agreed Mr B shouldnt make any 
payments for a temporary period in order to provide him with some breathing space and 
while a longer term-solution was found. I thought that it was important for me to emphasise 
that as this was in 2017 this wasnt the same offering as a temporary payment holiday, 
brought in to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, which was available when Mr B 
complained in 2020. 
 
When the temporary nil-payment plan Mr B was provided with ended, Barclays completed an 
income expenditure assessment with him and this showed his expenditure exceeded his 
income and so he had no disposable income. As this was the case, Barclays concluded     
Mr B wouldnt be able to make his loan repayments or repay his overdrafts within a 
reasonable period of time and decided to begin corrective action in relation to the borrowing 
facilities. 
I sympathised with what Mr B had told us. I appreciated hed gone through a difficult time 
and understood why hed be left unhappy with adverse information being recorded on his 
credit file and worried about the impact this would have on him. I also knew Mr B said he felt 
that he was misled by Barclays during this process and that he could repay what he owed. 
But I thought that by the end of 2017, it was clear the temporary measures taken clearly 
hadnt improved Mr Bs situation. And I didnt think it would have been fair, reasonable or 
proportionate for Barclays to have continued ignoring Mr Bs obvious and apparent difficulty 
repaying what he owed, the fact the income and expenditure assessment showed he 
couldnt make his payments, or the fact that the credit hed been advanced had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. 
So by this stage, I would have expected Barclays to have taken corrective action in the way 
that it did. After all while withdrawing credit facilities and recording a default or other adverse 
information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain 
protections in relation to the debts incurred. 
I thought that requiring Barclays to remove the adverse information recorded here, even 
though it had refunded some of the interest and charges, would arguably be 
counterproductive and not in Mr Bs interests or that of any future lender. This is because   
Mr B would still have been left with substantial amounts which he wasnt in a position be to 
repay, in line with the initial arrangements, even with the refunded charges removed from the 
balances.
Bearing in mind all of this, I was satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Bs overdrafts and loans when it did 
and issue default notices, offering Mr B the opportunity bring his accounts up-to-date before 
it would take any action. As this was the case and Mr B didnt or wasnt able to take steps to 
comply with the demands for payment, I was satisfied that Barclays was entitled to withdraw 
Mr Bs overdrafts and default his loan.
 
So overall and having considered everything, I thought that Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to Mr Bs defaults and this left me intending to issue a final decision 
which didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Barclays response to my provisional decision
Barclays confirmed receiving my provisional decision and its acceptance of it. It also said 
that it didnt have anything further for me to consider.
Mr Bs response to my provisional decision 
Despite being chased for a response, Mr B didnt provide anything further or ask for any 
additional time to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint in my provisional decision. And as 
neither party has provided any further information or arguments for me to consider, Ive not 
been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So Im still not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 20 December 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman