DRN-3833392
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Ebury Partners UK Limited didnt honour an agreement to exchange
the proceeds of an overseas house sale into a more widely traded currency.
What happened
Mr P sold an overseas property and received two offers  a lower offer in British pounds
(GBP) and a higher offer paid in the local currency, which because of currency liquidity
issues was difficult to exchange into more tradable currencies such as GBP.
 
Mr P wanted to transfer the proceeds of the property sale from the overseas country to a
British or European account and so approached Ebury to ask whether theyd be able to
arrange the exchange of the local currency into either GBP, US Dollars (USD) or Euros
(EUR) and whether theyd also be happy to transfer the money on to an account he holds
in Europe. Ebury indicated they would be willing to do so, and so Mr P accepted the higher
property sale offer, payable in the local currency.
 
Mr P transferred the property sale receipts to Ebury in the local currency. Because the
liquidity issues surrounding that currency meant there might be a delay of up to six months
before Ebury could arrange a currency exchange, Mr P asked Ebury to send the currency,
without exchanging it, to a different account in a different territory, where the local currency
would be exchanged into a more tradable currency upon receipt by the receiving bank.
 
Ebury initially indicated to Mr P that they would be willing to forward his money as requested.
But after a considerable delay, Ebury decided they werent willing to do this. Furthermore,
Ebury explained to Mr P that they were no longer willing to exchange the currency as
originally agreed, and they returned Mr Ps money to the originating account in the country
where the property was sold. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
 
Ebury looked at Mr Ps complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by returning the
money to Mr Ps originating account as they had, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Eburys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they acknowledged how what had
happened would have been frustrating for Mr P, they didnt feel that Ebury had done
anything wrong in how theyd managed the situation. Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 November 2022 as follows:
It seems clear that it was Mr Ps request to change the details of the agreed currency 
exchange that caused Ebury to reconsider their position here. Ebury are entitled to
change their position where a new instruction received isnt something theyre willing 
to facilitate. And while I realise that Mr P wanted to find a quicker way of exchanging 
his money, it also must be recognised that what he asked Ebury to do was very 
different to what he asked of them initially  and to what Ebury agreed to do.
 
I do feel that it was reasonable for Ebury to have had concerns about the transfer of 
money to the offshore account that they were being asked by Mr P to undertake, 
especially as such a transfer wasnt a part of the original agreement they made with 
Mr P.
 
Ebury has explained that it was because of concerns with this new transfer that 
Ebury was no longer willing to either facilitate this payment or to offer services to Mr 
P, resulting in the money being returned to him. Thats a decision that Ebury is 
allowed to make as a business. But what Ive gone on to consider here is whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
 
Mr P may contend that if hed been aware that Ebury wouldnt have honoured the 
original agreement, that he wouldnt have accepted the offer for the property payable 
in the local currency that he did. But having considered all the evidence here, 
including the ongoing communication between Mr P and Ebury, I havent seen 
anything which suggests that Ebury wouldnt have honoured the original agreement 
they made with Mr P  to exchange the currency and transfer the proceeds to a 
European account within the stated timescale.
 
Its clear that Eburys decision to no longer offer services to Mr P was only made as a 
result of Mr P requesting a change to the original agreement, as detailed above, and 
this change of plan was only requested by Mr P after hed confirmed the sale of the 
property. As such, I dont feel that Ebury should bear any responsibility for Mr P not 
accepting the alternative offer for his property which would have led to him receiving 
the sale proceeds in GBP. And this is because Im satisfied that Mr P accepted the 
sale offer that he did at a time when Ebury were willing to exchange the currency for 
him, as had been originally agreed.
 
However, while I dont feel that Ebury have acted unfairly towards Mr P in regard to 
the actions theyve ultimately taken here, I do feel that Ebury could and should have 
been clearer with how they communicated with Mr P.
 
This is because when Mr P originally suggested to Ebury that he was looking to find 
ways that would allow the currency exchange to be processed more quickly, the 
agent he was corresponding with engaged in detailed conversation with Mr P about 
his intentions, including asking Mr P to agree to a disclaimer which absolved Ebury of 
the consequences of any of the risks associated with the requested transfer to the 
offshore account.
 
Considering this email correspondence between Eburys agent and Mr P in full, I can 
see that Ebury made clear that there were risks involved with what Mr P wanted. But 
I cant see that they ever clearly warned him that in attempting to do what he wanted, 
that this could result in not only the exchange itself being unsuccessful  but in the 
transaction as a whole being cancelled. I think that meant that Mr Ps expectations 
were unfairly raised and that when Ebury finally cancelled the whole transaction with 
him  that this would have come as a real surprise.
 
I have to look at both sides of a complaint and here, I dont think itd be fair to say 
that Ebury can be held liable for any of the losses that Mr P says he incurred. Nor do 
I think itd be fair to tell it to undertake a transaction its no longer willing to facilitate. But I do feel that Ebury should provide compensation to Mr P for the trouble and 
upset that he incurred as a result of their not communicating with him more clearly.
 
For this, I think £750 is fair to reflect the impact this had on Mr P in terms of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. This is in consideration that Mr P would clearly 
have been shocked and surprised when Ebury cancelled the transaction, and that 
hes had to contact Ebury and make new arrangements in light of this  which I think 
its fair that Ebury recognises its contribution to in terms of the inconvenience here.
 
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Mr Ps favour on the limited basis explained above and instructing Ebury 
to make a compensation payment to Mr P of £750.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr P and Ebury the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a final 
decision. Ebury confirmed that they accepted the provisional decision, whereas Mr P did 
provide some comments on my provisional decision for me to consider.
These included that the issue of the local currencys liquidity had meant there had always 
been a degree of flexibility and changeability to the agreement to exchange the money with 
Ebury. This was because the exchange would be made into whichever of three potential 
currencies  GBP, USD, or Euros  depending on which of those three currencies had the 
earliest available currency exchange slot. 
Additionally, Mr P points out that the post-exchange destination of the money would have 
differed depending on which currency the money was exchanged into, and that if the 
exchange had been made into USD, then those USD would have been transferred on to the 
same account which he asked Ebury to transfer the money to in the local currency, and 
which prompted Eburys concerns. 
However, I dont feel that the email correspondence between Mr P and Ebury paints as clear 
a picture as Mr P contends here. Indeed, I note that when Mr P initially contacted Ebury he 
requested for the money to be exchanged into GBP, and that shortly after opening an Ebury 
account to facilitate the exchange Mr P then explained that he wanted to exchange the 
money into GBP, USD, or Euros, depending on which was the best option for him. 
Additionally, while Mr P mentioned existing UK and European bank accounts, and did also 
mention that he would need to open a new USD account is the exchange ended up being 
made into USDs, he didnt initially mention to Ebury the new USD account he would open 
would be an offshore account.
As such, the initial request for Ebury to receive the local currency and exchange it into a 
more tradable currency, and then to forward that exchanged currency to a recipient account, 
did then change such that Mr P was asking Ebury to receive the local currency and forward it 
on without it being exchanged to an offshore bank account.
Mr P has asked why Ebury would have had concerns about his proposed course of action. 
But I hope he will understand that asking a currency exchange business such as Ebury to 
effectively act as a conduit to move non-exchanged currency to an offshore account is an 
irregular request, and one which I feel its reasonable for Ebury to have held concerns about. 
And I remain satisfied that these reasonable concerns were such that it was fair for Ebury to 
have then made the decision to withdraw their offer of service to Mr P as they did.
But it also remains my position  as per my provisional decision above  that I feel Ebury 
could and should have communicated more clearly with Mr P, including managing his expectations and his understanding of what would and wouldnt be acceptable to Ebury. And 
it was for this reason that I provisionally upheld this complaint and instructed Ebury to pay 
£750 compensation to Mr P for the trouble and upset he incurred because of the poor 
communication.
Mr P has asked how I arrived at the £750 compensation amount. Matters of compensation 
are always subjective. But Ive thought abought the frustration and inconvenience I feel that 
Mr P has incurred here, and also considered the framework by which this service awards 
compensation for trouble and upset  details of which can be found on our website. And 
having done so I feel that £750 is a fair and reasonable amount. 
It must be remembered that this instruction of compensation isnt an award against any 
tangible financial losses Mr P may have incurred. Indeed, Im not making any instruction to 
Ebury regarding Mr Ps claimed financial losses, because as explained Im satisfied that 
Eburys actions were fair. 
This award of compensation is solely for the upset and inconvenience Mr P has experienced 
because Eburys communication with him didnt fairly manage his expectations or provide a 
reasonable degree of forward clarity as to what actions Ebury would or wouldnt be prepared 
to undertake.
All of which means that my final decision here is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ps 
favour on the same limited basis as explained in my provisional decision and instructing 
Ebury to make a payment of £750 compensation to Mr P as explained above. I realise this 
might not be the outcome that Mr P was wanting here, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have
Putting things right
Ebury must make a payment of £750 to Mr P
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Ebury Partners UK Limited on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman