DRN-3773387
The complaint
Miss A and Ms S have complained about their car insurer Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited in relation to action it has taken to recover its claim outlay costs from Miss A.
Ms S is a named driver on Miss As policy  and it is Miss A whom RSA is seeking to recover 
its outlay from. So my decision will, in the main, refer to Miss A.
What happened
Miss A was involved in an accident in March 2017 which was her fault and she was later 
convicted of drink driving. RSA noted early on in the claim that if Miss A was convicted it 
would have no liability to her under the policy but it would likely act as the Road Traffic Act 
insurer. Meaning it would settle the claims for the other driver and injured passengers, but 
look to Miss A to repay its outlay. RSA subsequently incurred a significant outlay in respect 
of the incident. In 2020 RSA began action to recover its outlay from Miss A and asked her to 
pay it £58,049.81.
Miss A thought RSA was being unfair as she had made a mistake in 2017 and done 
everything to put matters right since  being asked to pay such a sum was stressful and she 
couldnt afford it. She also wanted to be satisfied that the sum it was asking for had been 
reasonably incurred by it and she asked it to present invoices and details of the sums paid 
that made up that total. She knew it was partly made up of hire charges and personal injury 
costs for the other driver and his passenger. She said RSA had paid too much in respect of 
both these sums and that it should have done more to contest them.
RSA gave Miss A some detail of figures but wouldnt agree to cease its recovery action. So 
Miss A and Ms S complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that RSA had acted reasonably. He noted it had challenged the claims 
made by the other driver for various costs and the settlements it had finally made reflected 
reductions from what had been asked for. He didnt uphold the complaint. Miss A remained 
unhappy and asked for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt that RSA could fairly seek to recover its reasonably incurred outlay from Miss A. But 
that part of the outlay was not reasonably incurred because it had been allowed to accrue 
because of RSAs own delay. I felt RSA would have to waive £14,897.44, and deduct the 
total of any premiums paid, from the £58,049.81 it is seeking to recover from Miss A. So 
I issued a provisional decision to explain my findings to both parties. My findings were:
I understand that Miss A accepts that she made a mistake in 2017, and that she has acted 
since to put matters right. I can also understand why, having dealt with all of that in the years 
since the incident that RSAs request for a substantial repayment in 2020 was distressing 
and worrying for Miss A. But, in the circumstances, RSA can fairly and reasonably seek to 
reclaim its outlay from Miss A. It doing so is no more than a further consequence of the 
mistake that was made.
RSA handled the claims made by the other driver and passengers. It did so as the Road 
Traffic Act insurer. It had a solicitor handle the claims for it. I know Miss A thinks the 
personal injury claims should have been challenged  but I see there was medical evidence 
which supported those claims. I havent seen anything which makes me think the claims or 
costs in these respects should have been challenged or that settlement for them was unfair 
or unreasonable in anyway. I see that regarding the hire element of the loss, RSA did 
challenge the cost initially claimed. And the settlement it made was based on what its 
solicitor felt was reasonable, taking into account a number of issues such as the period over 
which the car was hired and the type of car which had been hired. The solicitor also 
considered whether the other driver, having taken out a hire agreement, could reasonably 
and successfully be challenged on grounds of his income. But it was felt this couldnt be 
done. I cant reasonably say RSA should have gone against the legal advice it received in 
this respect by offering less or refusing to offer to settle this element, thereby letting it 
proceed to a hearing where more costs would be incurred.
As it was, the hire element that was settled by RSA did not progress to a hearing. In short 
the other driver had claimed around £38,000 in costs (separately to personal injury claims 
made), for car hire through into November 2017. That sum included things like the cost of 
insurance cover for the hire car. RSA said it didnt think it was reasonable for those sorts of 
additional costs to be sought, so it wouldnt settle them. It also, as I noted above, made 
challenges regarding the period of hire and the type of car hired. The settlement proposal 
RSA put forward to the other driver (of £24,350 for this element of loss) was based, in part, 
on 200 days of hire, ending on 30 October 2017, at a rate substantially reduced from that 
requested (£86.73 per day as opposed to £109 per day, both plus VAT). That was £20,770 
for hire, with £630 being paid for storage, a miscellaneous payment of £50 and £2,900 for 
pain and suffering, making up the total settlement sum. I think RSA acted fairly and 
reasonably in challenging the costs sought. I cant reasonably have expected it to do 
anything more.
But that doesnt mean I think RSA can fairly and reasonably expect Miss A to repay it all of 
that settlement sum. For me, I think RSA can only reasonably ask Miss A to contribute 
towards that figure because I think it caused delays which resulted in the need for a 
settlement based on 200 days of hire. So it isnt reasonable to expect Miss A to reimburse it 
the costs which were incurred due to its own delay.
RSA was sent an engineers report in April 2017 from the other drivers solicitor showing 
their car was a total loss, with a market value of £650. The letter received also warned that 
the other driver was incurring hire costs and invited settlement of the vehicle damage claim 
based on its market value so the hire could end. But RSA didnt settle the vehicle damage 
element of the loss until October 2017. I think that was unreasonable of it. It is quite usual for 
insurers, even where fault is disputed, to look to settle vehicle damage elements of claims 
early when it is known that hire costs are accruing. Here whilst there was clearly a question 
over policy liability, fault for the incident was never in doubt. And RSAs file shows it knew in 
May 2017 that it would likely deal with this as the Road Traffic Act insurer. So I cant see any 
good reason why RSA then waited until October 2017 to settle this, really quite small, 
element of the loss. I think RSA should have taken a pro-active and pragmatic approach, 
and if it had done then this small cost could have been settled, allowing the other driver to 
come out of the expensive hire agreement by the end of May 2017, before he went on 
holiday on 31 May 2017. And if he had remained in hire past the end of May, then RSA 
would have legitimately been able to challenge costs incurred past that date. In saying that 
Im mindful that is exactly the argument its reduced settlement was based on with the other 
driver claiming costs into November 2017 when it had made settlement for the vehicle 
damage in October 2017.   So I think that of the 200 days hire RSA settled for, it can only reasonably expect Miss A to 
reimburse it for the 60 days incurred between 1 April and 30 May 2017 (inclusive). At RSAs 
accepted rate of £86.73 plus vat that is £6,172.56 (inclusive of VAT). The difference between 
that figure and the hire cost set by RSAs solicitor of £20,770, which made up part of the 
£24,350 settlement sum, is £14,897.44. I intend to require RSA to deduct this sum from the 
total sought from Miss A of £58,049.81.
For completeness, I know that RSA has, at times, said that the sum of £24,350 was all for 
hire costs. But as I referenced above, that is not the case. I think the advice about what 
figures were paid for which element has varied during the course of the complaint because 
RSA didnt settle exactly in line with what was claimed for. And when it settled with the other 
party, that was put forwards as a global settlement against the hire element of the claim. But 
RSAs file is clear about how it came to justify that offer, and the challenges it refences in 
explaining the offer (internally) are also featured in the court claim defence it put forwards. 
So I am satisfied that the figure of £24,350 was made up of a number of elements with the 
hire cost being £20,770. 
Further, RSAs recovery request also seems to have not taken account of the premium 
Miss A had paid it for cover to the point it cancelled the policy, which I understand was the 
date of the accident. Im not sure what that amounts to. But, assuming that premium wasnt 
refunded to Miss A (which seems unlikely), it should be taken into account and off-set 
against the claim outlay Ive said RSA can reasonably seek from Miss A. For clarity that is 
£43,152.37 (£58,049.81 less £14,897.44).
I note RSA accepted it should have communicated with Miss A better and it has paid her 
£250 compensation. I think that is fair and reasonable. Even though Im making RSA reduce 
the outlay it is seeking from Miss A, I am not going to require it to pay more compensation. 
The sum I am saying is reasonably due is still a substantial amount and it is really the fact of 
RSA asking for its outlay, regardless of the actual figure requested, which Miss A doesnt 
think is fair, that has caused her the worry and upset. And whilst I understand how Miss A 
feels about this, I dont think it did anything wrong in asking her to pay back its outlay.
RSA did not respond. Miss A and Ms S did. Ive summarised their reply below:
They feel it is worrying that I could reach such a different decision to that issued by our 
Investigator.
They feel even the remainder of the hire car costs should be challenged on the basis of 
the other drivers financial position.
They feel the personal injury element needs further challenge/review.
The other driver is clearly, inherently dishonest. He and the passenger lied about 
injuries.
They should have had a chance to defend their position with credible, factual material  
but RSA prevented that by settling out of court.
Or RSA should at least have asked them first if theyd be willing to cover the settlement 
sum.
It shouldnt be assumed they would not have been prepared to take on court action.
Most insurers wont pursue recovery if the previous policyholder doesnt have means to 
pay  and Miss A does not have the means to pay.
The £250 compensation has not been paid by RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It is sometimes the case that an Ombudsman, on reviewing a complaint, will reach a 
different decision to that of the Investigator who initially considered it. When that happens, a 
provisional decision is issued, as it was here. That does not mean the Investigator acted 
improperly in reaching the view they did. Rather it is possible for different reviewers to form 
different opinions about the evidence they see. And when that happens with an 
Ombudsmans review  the Ombudsmans decision supersedes anything the Investigator 
found or said in their view. 
As I said provisionally, RSA acted to settle the claim in the way that it did based on legal 
advice. That was both in respect of the personal injury and car hire elements. I know Miss A 
has her own view about these aspects. But RSA acted on the basis of formal legal advice, 
and I cant reasonably expect it to have ignored that or done anything differently. Of course, 
that advice and consideration did not take into account RSAs own delays and liability for 
some of the car hire costs. Which is where I was able to say RSA had acted unreasonably  
by passing costs on to Miss A that only arose out of its delay.
RSA can fairly settle claims without reverting to the policyholder. Clearly, I think, even if RSA 
had asked Miss A for agreement, that would not have been given. And that would likely have 
led to the matter progressing to court and more costs accruing. 
I can see from RSAs file that it did consider Miss As financial position before it chose to 
pursue her for its costs. It even took legal advice. Having done so, RSA decided to pursue 
Miss A. So I think it gave the situation reasonable consideration before deciding to act. And 
whilst I dont wish to cause Miss A further upset, Im mindful that RSA only incurred costs as 
the Road Traffic Act insurer because of her actions. Whilst I fully understand that Miss A is 
struggling financially and striving to reinstate her life following events of recent years, I cant 
fairly say that means RSA should forego seeking to recover its outlay from her. 
I understand that RSA asked Miss A for her bank details in order the £250 could be paid to 
her. I havent seen that RSA was ever able to make this payment. As RSA was satisfied that 
Miss A should receive £250 in compensation, and Ive also found it was fairly and 
reasonably due, Ill add a direction here for it to pay this by cheque. 
Putting things right
I require RSA to amend the total sum it is seeking from Miss A of £58,049.81, so that the 
sum of £14,897.44 is deducted, along with the total of any premium paid for the policy.
I also require RSA, unless it can show Miss A that this has already been paid, to pay Miss A 
£250 compensation, by cheque.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman