DRN-2634437
The complaint
Mr H complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim he made on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H renewed his pet insurance policy (the policy) with Red Sands in September 2019, it 
provided cover in respect of his dog (who Ill call S). The policy provided time limited cover. 
This meant S was only covered for 365 days after any condition was first noted. 
In August 2020 S fell ill. She was later diagnosed with gastroenteritis and required treatment 
in hospital. Mr H submitted a claim to Red Sands for reimbursement of the veterinary costs. 
Red Sands noted that S had been diagnosed and treated for gastroenteritis in July 2019. It 
said as this previous diagnosis happened more than 365 days ago there was no further 
cover for gastroenteritis. 
Mr H complained. He said the recent diagnosis and treatment of gastroenteritis was 
unrelated to the previous diagnosis. Mr H also complained the vet had delayed treatment 
which meant Ss condition worsened and required hospital treatment. Mr H said he expected 
Red Sands to intervene with the veterinary practice. Red Sands rejected Mr Hs complaint, 
reiterating that the claim for gastroenteritis exceeded the policys 365-day condition limit. 
Unhappy with Red Sands decision Mr H referred his complaint to our service. He said his 
claim had either been unfairly rejected or the policy had been mis-sold to him. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Red Sands had 
applied the policy terms and conditions fairly when it declined Mr Hs claim. He explained 
that, under the policy terms, there was no requirement for the two bouts of gastroenteritis to 
be linked. He noted that Red Sands hadnt investigated any mis-sale concerns as this hadnt 
formed part of the original complaint, but he said the terms complained about werent 
unusual and were common across the industry, so he didnt feel the policy had been 
mis-sold on the basis of that term being included.  
Mr H remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He said he didnt feel 
the relevant policy term had been sufficiently brought to his attention when he purchased the 
cover, and so felt the policy had been mis-sold to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. I know this will come as disappointment to Mr H, and I 
understand he feels hes been treated unfairly. But for the reasons I will go on to explain, Im 
satisfied Red Sands decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms and was 
therefore fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The policy documentation clearly sets out that cover under the policy is Time Limited. The 
documentation explains A Time Limited policy offers cover from accidents, illnesses and 
conditions. Time Limited policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after the 
condition is first noted by yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first arose or 
when an accident happened. Once these 365 days have elapsed this illness, injury or 
condition will no longer be covered, and exclusions regarding that illness or injury will then 
be applied to your policy.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that S suffered gastroenteritis on two occasions. The 
dispute appears to centre on whether the first bout of gastroenteritis, in July 2019, should 
reasonably be treated as the start date in terms of when the condition is first noted. 
I can understand Mr Hs point of view that Ss diagnosis with gastroenteritis in August 2020 
appears, on the face of it, to be unconnected to her previous diagnosis. But the policys 
definition of condition is very broad. The policy defines a condition as any manifestation of 
an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease 
process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected. This 
means theres no requirement under the policy for the two illnesses to be directly linked  i.e. 
one need not lead on to the other. If there are two occasions of the same illness it will be 
considered to be one condition for the purposes of the policy.
As S suffered from, and was treated for, gastroenteritis in July 2019, Red Sands were only 
obliged to accept claims for that condition until July 2020. As this claim relates to treatment 
for gastroenteritis that occurred in August 2020 Red Sands was under no obligation to 
accept the claim under the policy terms, and as such I cant say it acted unfairly by declining 
the claim. 
Red Sands has also provided us with evidence from the time Mr H renewed the policy in 
September 2019. As part of the renewal Mr H had to accept a declaration which included the 
question Have you ever taken [S] to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations? 
The declaration explained that if the answer to any of the questions was yes Mr H should 
call Red Sands for further guidance. Had he done so, Red Sands has demonstrated it would 
have added an exclusion to the policy for all claims with respect to The Digestive System. 
Im satisfied this exclusion would reasonably have applied to any claims relating to 
gastroenteritis.  
Mr H has said the 365-day time limit was not brought to his attention when he bought the 
policy, hes suggested it was therefore mis-sold. As the policy was sold on a non-advised 
basis Red Sands was only required to provide Mr H with policy documentation that was 
reasonably clear, fair and not misleading to enable him to make his own decision on whether 
to purchase cover. While I agree the 365-day limit is a significant term, as it has the potential 
to significantly limit the amount of cover available, Im satisfied that it was clearly explained 
within the Your Policy Summary section of the policy. So, I cant agree it wasnt sufficiently 
brought to Mr Hs attention at the point of sale. 
I can see Mr H has also expressed concerns about Ss treatment, and possible errors made 
by the vet. While I can understand Mr Hs concerns, its important to note that Red Sands is 
not involved in, nor responsible for, any treatment that may be covered under the policy. Ive 
therefore not considered this as part of this complaint. Mr H may which to raise his concerns 
with the vet directly or with the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman