DRN-3573188
The complaint
Ms H and Mr W complain about their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. They complain 
Barclays misled them about the term of the mortgage, and didnt return the property deeds 
when it was paid off.
What happened
Ms H and Mr W have had a number of mortgages. The one thats the subject of this 
complaint is a buy to let mortgage with Barclays, which was paid off in 2021.
Ms H and Mr W say that they like to manage their mortgages by having them on repayment 
not interest only terms, but over the longest possible term. This keeps the contractual 
monthly payment as low as it can be while repaying the mortgage  meaning that theyve got 
some flexibility in case of problems with things like tenants paying rent. But wherever they 
can, they make overpayments.
Ms H and Mr W complain that Barclays has mis-managed this mortgage. They say that they 
understood that the term of the mortgage ended in 2030. But in fact it was paid off in 2021. 
They say that means that Barclays has been requesting higher monthly payments than it 
needed to  and this has caused them financial difficulty. They wanted to reduce their 
payments to reduce their outgoings, but Barclays calculated their monthly payments as if the 
term ended in 2021 not 2030.
Ms H and Mr W also complain that when the mortgage was paid off, Barclays didnt release 
the property deeds to them. It said they needed to pay a £275 fee. It didnt tell them that to 
start with, and even when they did pay the fee it delayed in releasing the deeds. They also 
dont think the fee is fair.
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had mis-managed the mortgage. But she thought 
that its communication with Ms H and Mr W had been confusing and had caused them 
distress. She said it should pay them £450 compensation. Barclays accepted that, but Ms H 
and Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H and Mr W have two buy to let mortgages with Barclays  this one, which has now been 
paid off, and another which is ongoing. That mortgage is the subject of a separate complaint 
with our service, and in this decision I am focussing solely on the mortgage which was paid 
off in 2021.
Ive thought very carefully about this complaint  not least because I know how important it is 
to Ms H and Mr W. Im grateful to them for sharing with me their views of the complaint and 
the details of their particular circumstances and the personal difficulties theyve faced. Im 
sorry to hear about everything theyve been through, and I know how important it is to bring 
resolution to this complaint.
There are two main issues here  the first is about the term of the mortgage, and the second 
is about what happened when it was paid off in 2021.
I do agree that there has been a lot of confusion here. How Barclays has communicated with 
Ms H and Mr W, and the explanations  or lack of explanations  it has given them has not 
helped matters. However, Im satisfied that I do now have a good understanding of what has 
happened with their mortgage over the years, and it might help for me to set out some of that 
history here.
The mortgage was taken out in 2007, over a term of 23 years  expiring in 2030  as a buy 
to let mortgage on repayment terms.
Over the years since 2007, Ms H and Mr W have been in contact with Barclays on several 
occasions to make changes to the mortgage. In brief, these are:
October 2008  Ms H enquired about changing the mortgage term. But no changes 
were actually made.
December 2008  the mortgage term was reduced to nine years, ending in 2017.
September 2010  the mortgage term was reduced further, to end in 2015.
February 2011  the mortgage term was reduced again, ending in 2014.
April 2011  the term was changed to ten years, ending 2021, and the mortgage was 
converted to interest only.
April 2011  Ms H and Mr W took a further advance on the mortgage, with the further 
advance on a five year term.
May 2011  the mortgage was changed back to repayment with the term of the main 
mortgage ending in 2021.
February 2012  the term of the further advance was reduced to two years six 
months, but the term of the main mortgage was kept the same.
August 2013  part of the main mortgage was converted to interest only.
December 2014  the mortgage was converted back to repayment.
Ms H and Mr W have therefore made many changes to their mortgage since they took it out, 
though not in recent years. The last change was in 2014, when the mortgage was converted 
back to repayment terms with a term ending in 2021.
Ive also looked at the history of the payments Ms H and Mr W have made over the years, 
and again these are consistent with the term of the mortgage ending in 2021  as in fact 
happened.
However, its also clear that on several occasions Barclays has told Ms H and Mr W that the 
mortgage term ended in 2030. This is not true, and Im satisfied its not true  after 2014, the 
term was due to end in 2021 and did in fact end in 2021.
So Ive looked at why Barclays sometimes told Ms H and Mr W that the term ended in 2030 when that was not in fact the case.
The mortgage was taken out in 2007, and at that time the term was 23 years, so the 
mortgage was originally due to end in 2030.
In 2007, Barclays was using an older computer system to manage its mortgages. Newer 
mortgages are on a newer computer system, but older mortgages like this one continue on 
the old system.
The front screen for mortgages on the older system, like this one, includes various pieces of 
information  including the expiry date of the mortgage. But thats the original expiry date, as 
it was when the mortgage was taken out. If the term is changed later, the mortgage and 
contractual monthly payments are changed (as happened here) but the front screen of the 
entry on the computer system continues to show the original term expiry date.
That means that sometimes when Ms H and Mr W rang up Barclays and spoke to staff 
members, or when staff members wrote to them in response to questions from Ms H and Mr 
W, those staff members looked at the front screen and quoted what it said there  which was 
the original term end date from when the mortgage was taken out rather than what it was 
amended to. But at other times staff members gave them the correct information.
I can therefore understand why Ms H and Mr W found it confusing and upsetting to be given 
conflicting information about when their mortgage ended.
And, in particular, Barclays (wrongly) told them several times in 2020 and 2021 that the term 
ended in 2030. Ms H and Mr W therefore came to believe that this was the case. And they 
didnt understand why, therefore, they were paying enough to pay the balance off by 2021  
and felt that they had been overcharged, their payments could have reduced, and that would 
have eased some of the financial pressure on them.
In fact, that wasnt the case. Their mortgage was due to end in 2021 because of the changes 
theyd made years before. So the payments were set at the right level, and the mortgage 
rightly was paid off at the end of the term. 
What all this means is that Ms H and Mr Ws mortgage operated properly, as it should. They 
paid the right amount of money each month and their balance was cleared at the end of the 
term. Barclays has not operated their mortgage wrongly.
What Barclays did wrong was failing to communicate this to Ms H and Mr W. It led them to 
believe that the term was longer. This meant they thought they were overpaying, their 
mortgage had been mis-managed, and Barclays had caused them unnecessary financial 
strain they could have avoided.
None of this was true. But the misleading information they were given led them to believe it 
was true. And this caused them substantial upset  especially in view of their already difficult 
circumstances  and I think its fair Barclays compensates them for the upset caused. 
Ms H and Mr W also said that Barclays lied to them and to us  because it told them the 
term of the mortgage could be changed like flicking a switch, but then said it couldnt.
I dont think theres evidence Barclays lied. Rather, its processes have changed over the 
years. When Ms H and Mr W made changes to this mortgage in the years before 2014, it 
treated changes to the term as a relatively straightforward administrative matter. But more 
recently it requires a full application to be made, including checking that the change of term 
is affordable and appropriate. I think thats reasonable. Once the mortgage was paid off, Ms H and Mr W asked Barclays for their deeds back. They 
also wanted the charge removed from the Land Registry so that they could look at re-
financing the property. Barclays didnt initially release the deeds or remove the charge. This 
was because there was a mortgage exit fee which Ms H and Mr W also needed to pay.
They didnt pay that fee for some time  they disputed that it was fair or that they needed to 
pay it.
Im satisfied that this fee was properly charged. Its a standard fee  its very common for 
mortgages to include a fee of this nature payable at the end of the mortgage. It covers the 
lenders administrative costs in retrieving the deeds (if held), discharging the charge and 
closing the mortgage account down. 
The fee was set out in the mortgage agreement. It was payable at the end of the mortgage  
whenever that is  and isnt a charge or penalty for repaying early. Its an administrative fee. 
Its a reasonable fee to charge, and I dont think it was unfair that Barclays wanted Ms H and 
Mr W to pay it before it would release the deeds or remove the charge. Once they did pay 
the fee, Barclays removed its charge and sent Ms H and Mr W the deeds.
Putting things right
Overall, then, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in charging the mortgage exit fee and not 
releasing the deeds or removing the charge until it was paid.
I do think the repeated confusion over the term end date meant that Ms H and Mr W ended 
up being uncertain about the term of their mortgage, and believing that it was longer than it 
was  and that theyd been paying too much as a result. 
Ms H and Mr W have asked me to consider requiring Barclays to compensate them for 
financial loss. In particular, theyve said that the relatively high repayments on this mortgage 
impacted the profitability of their property portfolio as a whole. This was compounded when a 
tenant left another of their properties, and left them feeling they had no choice but to sell the 
other property  even though it was one theyd invested in and wanted to keep  because of 
the financial pressure. They also say that they had to borrow, both on an overdraft and from 
friends and family, to keep up with the payments on this mortgage  which was expensive 
and embarrassing. And they say that because of the stress that resulted, they were unable 
to face refurbishing another property, meaning they lost rent and had to pay extra council tax 
in the meantime. The delay in Barclays removing its charge after the mortgage was repaid 
impacted them looking at re-financing this property. 
Ive thought about what theyve said here. But Im not persuaded that Barclays caused them 
financial loss.
Thats because, as Ive said, their mortgage operated as it should have done. They were 
paying the right amount for the term to end at the right point, as theyd requested would 
happen in 2013/14. The term wasnt in fact up to 2030, and Barclays wasnt asking them to 
pay more than the correct contractual monthly payment. Therefore, Barclays isnt 
responsible for the financial problems Ms H and Mr W experienced in making the payments 
they needed to make.
It's possible Ms H and Mr W could have applied to Barclays to extend the term  and its also 
possible it would have been more likely theyd have done that if Barclays had been clearer 
with them about what the term actually was. But theres no guarantee that application would 
have been successful, and I cant see that Ms H and Mr W discussed it with Barclays. As I 
say, Barclays now applies stricter criteria to requests like that. So I dont think I can fairly say the confusion about the term end caused their financial difficulties either.
And finally the mortgage was paid off when it should be  and the £275 fee was properly 
charged. Once Ms H and Mr W paid that, Barclays removed its charge and returned the 
deeds. So I dont think it caused unreasonable delay here either. 
However, I do think Barclays should compensate Ms H and Mr W for the upset and stress 
caused by the confusion and poor communication about the term. I agree that £450 
compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms H and Mr W £450 compensation, including any previous 
offers made in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman