DRN-2223558
The complaint
Mr H complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited, trading 
as NFU Mutual (NFU), made several errors when he claimed on his motor insurance policy 
after his car had been stolen.
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen in early August 2019 and he reported the theft to NFU the following 
day. Mr H was due to go on holiday, so, although the policy with NFU provided for 14 days 
Class B courtesy car, Mr H agreed to pay an additional amount to hire a car that met the 
needs of a family holiday. 
The purchase of the car had been part financed by a lender, and NFU obtained a settlement 
figure from the finance company shortly after the car was stolen. The finance company 
notified NFU on 13 August the car had been recovered and was being stored at a garage. 
However, NFU were still treating the theft as a total loss and their appointed engineer 
provided a market value for the car. Mr H didnt agree with the valuation and while he was on 
holiday, he provided evidence for NFU to consider. The engineer appointed by NFU 
reassessed the total loss valuation on 30 August. 
When Mr H called NFU on 2 September, after he returned from holiday, they told him the 
vehicle had been recovered and would be repaired.
Mr H made a claim for the personal possessions within the car, but NFU told him the items 
had been destroyed because the salvage agents policy was to destroy items not collected 
within three weeks. The salvage agent confirmed they had returned a set of keys left in the 
car and paid Mr H the sum of £100 towards the cost of the possessions they destroyed.
Mr H complained to NFU that:
NFU didnt tell him his car had been recovered for three weeks, and as a result he 
paid a months interest on his car finance when he had no benefit;
He spent a considerable amount of time putting together evidence to challenge the 
total loss valuation, but NFU already knew the car had been found;
He hired a larger car for his holiday, but his car had been recovered and he couldve 
used it for his holiday;
NFU sent a settlement cheque to the finance company when he told them not to; and
NFU allowed the salvage agents to destroy the personal possessions left in the car 
and added confusion by later confirming the salvage agents had posted them to him.
NFU responded to the complaints and apologised for their service. NFU agreed to pay Mr H 
£420 for the additional cost of the hire car and paid him £445 for the value of the personal 
possessions that had been destroyed. NFU also paid Mr H £400 compensation in 
consideration of the cancelled finance company payment, delays and the overall service he 
had experienced.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response NFU provided and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought NFU initially made some mistakes, but that they did respond to the 
complaints and treated Mr H fairly. The investigator said that when Mr H submitted additional 
evidence to support a higher total loss figure, NFU submitted it to an engineer within a 
reasonable time, and the valuation was amended. The investigator agreed that NFU didnt 
tell Mr H his vehicle had been recovered for three weeks. The investigator thought this 
caused some inconvenience and was the primary reason why the salvage agent destroyed 
Mr Hs personal possessions. In respect of the finance agreement, the investigator didnt 
think NFU should be responsible for payments during the period it held Mr Hs car.
Overall, the investigator thought the payments made by NFU for the cost of the hire car, and 
in respect of the personal possessions were reasonable to cover the financial losses 
suffered by Mr H. And, the investigator thought the payment of £400 NFU made for 
compensation was fair and reasonable for the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and requested an ombudsman decide his complaint. 
He feels NFU made several mistakes and it took a lot of his time to ensure they were put 
right. He feels that the compensation of £400 isnt enough as he was without his car for 
considerably longer than he shouldve been because NFU didnt tell him it had been 
recovered. Mr H believes NFU should be responsible for the finance payments while the car 
was in their possession as he had no benefit from it during this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reimbursement of finance costs
Mr H considers this is the most serious and inexcusable error that had many consequences.
NFU doesnt dispute they knew the car had been recovered on 13 August, and that they 
didnt tell Mr H until 2 September it had been recovered. Therefore, I dont think I need to 
detail all the evidence here. However, I will now consider the impact this had on Mr H.
The NFU car insurance policy explains that if the car is stolen, NFU will pay the cost of the 
repair, or pay the amount of the loss or damage, or replace it. I have considered whether the 
NFU car policy covers payment to a finance company whilst the claim is being dealt with, but 
it doesnt. So, although Mr H will be disappointed, I think NFU acted reasonably when it 
declined his request to pay the finance charges while he couldnt use the car. I wouldve 
expected NFU to pay off the finance once the total loss value had been agreed, but this 
wasnt agreed until late August. However, once the car had been recovered, NFU were 
entitled to pay to repair the car or pay for the damage. This is what they did, and the policy 
didnt cover any finance company payments, so NFU is not obliged to make a payment in 
this regard.
Challenging NFUs valuation and finance company cheque
When NFU became aware the car had been recovered they took three weeks to tell Mr H. In 
the meantime, Mr H spent time before and during his holiday challenging the initial valuation 
put forward by NFUs engineer. This work wouldnt have been required if NFU had told Mr H 
the car had been recovered earlier than they did. It wouldve been frustrating for Mr H to find 
out the work he did to challenge a total loss valuation wasnt of any value because the car 
had been recovered. NFU couldve paid off the finance once the total loss value had been agreed, but this wasnt 
agreed until late August, by which time the car had been recovered. However, NFU made an 
error in sending a cheque to the finance company. I can see it was cancelled quite quickly, 
but I appreciate this added further frustration for Mr H as he had to point this out to NFU.  
I will consider the overall remedy for frustration and inconvenience later in my decision.
Additional car hire cost
The policy provided a basic level of courtesy car. Mr H agreed to pay the hire company an 
additional £420 for a larger car.  Mr H says NFU knew his car had been recovered on 13 
August and they couldve repaired it in time for his holiday. I dont agree as I think it wouldnt 
have been reasonable for NFU to inspect the car and complete the repair works before Mr 
Hs holiday began. The policy didnt cover additional hire costs where the courtesy car is 
upgraded. However, NFU did refund the additional cost of the car hire to Mr H as a gesture 
of goodwill.
I think this is a fair and reasonable gesture of goodwill in these circumstances.
Personal possessions destroyed by salvage agents
Theres no dispute that the personal possessions in the car were destroyed, other than a set 
of keys that were returned. The salvage agent says they destroy possessions if they are left 
unclaimed for more than three weeks. In this case, the car was recovered but it was over 
three weeks before NFU told Mr H. So, the salvage agent destroyed the items.
I have seen there was some discrepancy about whether all the possessions had been sent 
to Mr H, but eventually NFU accepted that the only item sent to Mr H was a set of keys.
Mr H estimated the value of the possessions as £552.44. I have seen that the salvage agent 
made a payment of £100 to Mr H towards his loss, and NFU paid a further £445. NFU has 
also agreed to arrange for a payment of £7.44 plus 8% simple interest to Mr H. I would 
expect NFU to honour this commitment.
NFU didnt deal with this matter very well, and this would have caused some confusion and 
frustration to Mr H. While I can see that the policy protects personal possessions up to a 
total of £250, NFU has ensured Mr H has been fully reimbursed for the value of the 
possessions lost. So, although the way in which NFU dealt with this matter frustrated Mr H, I 
think the offer to pay the full value of the possessions was a reasonable one.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that NFU has ensured the financial losses made by Mr H have been remedied.
Turning to the frustration and inconvenience Mr H suffered because of the failures of NFU, I 
am satisfied the payment of £400 NFU made is a reasonable one. I think it fairly reflects the 
inconvenience of having to challenge the total loss valuation when it wasnt needed. I think it 
also covers the frustration Mr H felt when NFU sent the cheque to the finance company 
when they shouldnt have. And I think it reasonably addresses the inconvenience Mr H 
experienced when NFU incorrectly told him the possessions had been returned to him, and 
he had to intervene by contacting the salvage agents.
Therefore, I think NFU has taken reasonable steps to put matters right, and paid a 
reasonable remedy for the inconvenience and frustration their actions caused Mr H.
My final decisionMy final decision is that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited, 
trading as NFU Mutual, dont need to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman