DRN-3620849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the level of service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) when they made a claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were insured under a single-trip travel insurance policy, provided by IPA. They 
were due to travel abroad in December 2021 but were unable to do so due to travel 
restrictions introduced in their intended destination due to the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs Ms family also caught Covid-19, so Mr and Mrs M said they wouldnt 
have been able to travel in any event. 
Mr and Mrs M made a claim with IPA, who said that cancellation of a holiday arising from the 
shutting of foreign borders due to Covid-19 wasnt covered under their policy. Mr and Mrs M 
complained to IPA, who maintained its decision to decline their claim. However, IPA 
acknowledged that its service hadnt been to a high standard, so it offered to pay Mr and Mrs 
M £25 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and brought the matter to the attention of our service. IPA 
subsequently acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M had provided it with evidence of a positive 
Covid-19 test. It said Mr and Mrs M were therefore eligible to claim for cancellation due to 
illness and accepted their claim. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought IPAs offer of 
£25 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree 
with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has now accepted Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Mr M has mentioned that IPA made the claim 
payment into the wrong account. This would need to be the subject of a separate complaint 
to IPA before this service could comment on the matter. 
What remains for me to decide when considering this complaint is whether I think the £25 
offered by IPA is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact of IPAs actions on Mr and 
Mrs M. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator say that insurers should handle claims promptly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my 
decision about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
IPA said that one of the reasons given by Mr and Mrs M for the cancellation of their holiday 
wasnt covered under their policy terms and conditions. I dont think this was unreasonable. 
But I think it would have been fair for IPA to consider that there was also another reason why 
Mr and Mrs M couldnt travel, which was covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy. However, IPA didnt reassess and accept Mr and Mrs Ms claim until July 2022  
around seven months after their claim was first declined.
IPA, in its final response letter, apologised for the service Mr and Mrs M received and offered 
to pay them £25 compensation. This offer related to IPAs delay in assessing the claim in the 
first instance and for the holding times on its phone lines. IPA subsequently said it failed to 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M were, in fact, eligible to claim for cancellation due to illness. 
So, the £25 offered didnt relate to IPAs failure to reassess the claim sooner. However, 
when making a decision about a complaint, I consider the overall circumstances as a whole. 
I have no doubt that IPAs delays in this case will have caused Mr and Mrs M frustration and 
annoyance. Mr and Mrs M should be compensated for the impact of IPAs unnecessary 
delays on them. But, a certain level of inconvenience is inevitable when making an insurance 
claim and I cant seek to punish or fine IPA through my award. I also need to take into 
account the wider circumstances at the time, when travel insurers in particular were 
generally experiencing large volumes of enquiries and claims relating to a new Covid-19 
variant. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I dont agree that the circumstances of their 
complaint fall into the category which would warrant an award of between £100 and £300 
compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that IPAs offer of £25 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for the impact of how it handled the claim on Mr and Mrs M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs M £25 
compensation and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is 
that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay Mr and Mrs M £25. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman