DRN-3566067
The complaint
Mr D and Mr S complain about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
appointing a Law of Property Act (LPA) Receiver over one of the properties that they have 
on a buy to let mortgage with BM. They also complain about the actions of the receiver.
What happened
Mr D and Mr S bought six buy to let properties in 2007/8. Five of these properties were 
mortgaged to BM and one to another lender. All the terms of the mortgages matured in 2018 
but the mortgage balances remain outstanding. At the beginning of 2020, Mr D and Mr S had 
a number of complaints about the administration of the mortgages by BM and in particular a 
complaint arising out of the events leading up to the receivership and the subsequent 
administration of the receivership by the receivers of that property. Mr D and Mr S raised a 
complaint but the response from BM focused on another issue which was the inaccuracies 
contained in an arrears statement on another property. 
Mr D and Mr S say that both the process and administration of the receivership was flawed 
and left them with an ongoing and unnecessary financial problem. They refer to further 
events during 2020 and 2021 on other properties where although they had fallen behind in 
payments, they could have reached an agreement for settlement of all outstanding payments 
but were not afforded that opportunity with this property. BM's actions led to them losing 
control of the property, losing valuable income and making further additions to the 
outstanding balance due to costly and they believe unnecessary works having been 
undertaken by the receivers, with no indication of the property being returned to them 
despite arrears having been eliminated for some considerable time.
BM said that it wrote to Mr D and Mr S on 6 January 2020 in relation to the arrears, an 
agents visit, and the possibility of it appointing an LPA receiver to the property. On 17 March 
2020, BM appointed receivers. BM say that although they accepted that there were 
administrative errors on accounts and offered compensation of £750, it didnt accept that 
there were errors in the appointment of a receiver to this property. Our investigator didnt 
consider that BM had done anything wrong in appointing a receiver and that £750 was fair 
compensation for the poor service on certain accounts by BM. Mr D and Mr S disagreed and 
asked for a review setting out their points of disagreement in their email of 27 June 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read what is now a substantial file including the detailed submissions Mr D and Mr S 
make in their email of 27 June 2022 all of which Ive considered although I may not mention 
each one individually. But in essence this is a simple issue. I have to consider if BM acted 
fairly in the appointment of a receiver to one of Mr D and Mr Ss properties in early 2020. 
The mortgage on this property whose term had matured in 2018 was several months in 
arrears and had been in arrears from 2015. Its a buy to let property let out to a tenant and 
under the terms of the mortgage BM could appoint an LPA receiver. This isnt unusual where 
there are arrears situations on buy to let mortgages. BM wrote to Mr D and Mr S to say it 
was considering it. Mr S responded to say by letter dated 10 February 2020 we are aware 
that we are in arrears on each property and would wish to resolve that by a structured 
additional payment over a number of months to bring into balance . Mr D and Mr S live 
abroad and said they had asked their local managing agent to make contact with BM and 
speak on their behalf. BM contacted the agent at the beginning of March who told BM that 
Mr D and Mr S couldnt sell because of negative equity and werent able to pay the 
mortgage. 
BM considered that they had no option but to go down the route of appointing an LPA 
receiver. That doesnt seem an unreasonable response in the circumstances where the 
mortgage had matured and BM hadnt been paid, where the account was several  months in 
arrears, where the tenant was paying the rent but Mr D and Mr S werent paying the 
mortgage and where Mr D and Mr Ss agent was saying that, as would be obvious from the 
arrears, that Mr D and Mr S couldnt pay the mortgage. I appreciate that on another property 
where there were arrears BM didnt appoint a receiver but I understand the length of the 
arrears was of shorter duration on that other property which may explain the different 
collection strategies adopted by BM. Mr D and Mr S were unhappy with that and wrote on 23 
March. That correspondence refers to government action to prevent legal actions on 
mortgage accounts, but this government action followed the appointment of the receiver and 
this appointment wasnt affected by it. So, I cant fairly say that BMs appointment of the 
receivers was unreasonable or unfair.   
Mr D and Mr Ss other complaints relate to the actions of the receiver after their appointment. 
Although the receiver is appointed by BM the receiver isnt the agent of BM but of Mr D and 
Mr S and if they are dissatisfied with the actions of the receiver, they can bring those up with 
the receiver directly. So, its not my role to investigate the actions of the receiver. Mr D and 
Mr S have problems with the actions of the receiver in particular the receiver paying for 
repairs to the property and its recommendation that the property should be  sold and sold 
without a sitting tenant and not returned to the management of Mr D and Mr S. I note that the 
property was tenanted and the receiver spent money to effect repairs on the property citing 
that it had a duty of care to the tenants. Although Mr D and Mr S object to the expenditure 
thats a matter to bring up with the receivers but Ive seen nothing from them that shows that 
the repairs were unnecessary.
Ive seen an exit report prepared by the receivers which recommends the sale of the 
property because the rent is falling below the mortgage payments and so increasing the 
arrears. If a sale leads to the arrears not increasing, that would seem to benefit Mr D and Mr 
S. The receivers propose serving a notice to quit on the tenants presumably to achieve a 
sale without a sitting tenant. That is not unusual as it would seem to allow a larger market for 
the sale of the property and if it becomes a new buy to let the incoming landlord would have 
more flexibility about the rent  that could be charged.
Mr D and Mr S also complain that following the receivership that the property wasnt offered 
back to them. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr D and Mr S would be able to pay off 
the remaining costs of the receivership or that Mr D and Mr Ss financial situation had 
improved to the extent that they would be able to pay off the costs of the receivership and 
make the payments on the mortgage that they had not made before. In any case this was a 
situation where the term of this interest only buy to let mortgage had matured and it would be 
reasonable for BM to recover by sale most of the capital that it had loaned to Mr D and Mr S 
originally. I do note that there were errors on in the accounts that BM set out in detail and as 
a result of which they paid £750 compensation which is fair. But in respect of the main concern in this complaint I cant fairly say that BM acted unreasonably in appointing an LPA 
receiver and as the receiver isnt the agent of BM I cant hold BM responsible for the actions 
of the receiver. So, for those reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman