DRN-1680964
 
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely based on the information I have.
 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge that Mr B says he doesn't remember PPI being mentioned, and that 
he was unaware that it had been added to the mortgage. Neither Mr B nor Halifax 
any longer has the application form for the mortgage or PPI. Nor have they been able 
to confirm how the policy was sold. I dont think thats surprising, given that the sale 
took place more than 20 years ago.
 
I cant be sure what Halifax said about the PPI, or whether it made it clear to Mr B 
that he had a choice. But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax 
sold these policies around this time. Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said. 
But without stronger evidence to show Halifax didn't make him aware that the PPI 
was optional, I cant fairly say that its more likely than not that it didn't give him a 
choice about whether to take the PPI.
 
Mr B says Halifax didn't recommend the PPI to him. But I wouldn't expect him to have 
a clear memory of the sale, given how long ago it took place. And for the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that Halifax did recommend the PPI to Mr B. This is to Mr 
Bs advantage, as it means that Halifax had a responsibility to check that it was 
suitable for him.  But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time. 
 
I acknowledge that Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to between three and six 
months sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have covered his monthly 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months if hed made a successful claim under the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment. Thats longer than Mr Bs told us hed 
have been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr B received from his employer. So hed have been able 
to use those payments to meet other living costs. And he wouldn't have had to use 
his savings to make his mortgage payments.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mr Bs told us that his wife worked full-time and could have 
covered his mortgage payments if necessary. But circumstances can change. And I 
cant be sure that Mr Bs wife would have been in a position to help if the need had 
arisen. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy would have provided Mr B with 
valuable peace of mind that his mortgage would continue to be paid if he was unable 
to work. And I think this would have been important to him, as the mortgage was a 
long-term commitment, secured on his property.
 
The policy cost around £24 per month. If Mr B had made a successful claim it would 
have paid out a benefit of £350 per month. It may be that Halifax could have 
explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr B would 
still have bought it. Mr Bs told us that he wouldn't have agreed to pay anything more 
than the minimum mortgage payment. And I can understand that he  may have been 
keen not to incur unnecessary expense. But the cost of the policy was relatively low, 
and if hed made a successful claim, the benefit could have been significant. And 
since he was paying for the policy monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time 
without further charge if he decided he no longer wanted it. I note that Halifax has 
told us that Mr B did, in fact, cancel the policy less than a year after he took it out. 
 
Its possible Halifax didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, unusual employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). But 
from the information I have about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr B 
would have been affected by any of these. So I think its unlikely hed have made a 
different decision about taking the policy even if better information had been 
provided.
 
So taking everything into account, I dont find that Mr B has lost out as a result of anything 
Halifax may have done wrong.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman