DRN-1819102
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Oakwood Homeloans Limiteds actions prevented them making 
overpayments on their mortgage.
What happened
In July 2016 Mr and Mrs H wanted to extend the term of their interest-only mortgage, but 
their application was declined. They complained to Oakwood about this, but it didnt change 
its position on the application. So they brought their complaint to our service and in March 
2019 we upheld it and their term was extended for eight further years.
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to Oakwood about the impact it not agreeing to the 
term-extension had on them. They said that they wouldve made overpayments to their 
mortgage during the three years their complaint was on-going, so at this point would have a 
lower balance outstanding on their mortgage account. And so, as a result of this, would be 
paying interest going forward on a lower balance too.
To resolve their complaint they wanted the interest they had paid on the amount they said 
theyd have overpaid refunded. And for this overpayment amount to be taken off the 
mortgage and for a separate account to be set up with the overpayment amount owing, for 
them to pay off interest free at some point over the remaining term.
Oakwood didnt agree and said it hadnt prevented them making overpayments during the 
course of the complaint. And it said it hadnt seen evidence they could have made these 
additional payments as they suggested. So it didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it as she 
said that they chose not to make the repayments, rather than they couldnt. So she didnt 
think they should be put in the position theyd suggested. Mr and Mrs H asked for a final 
decision and referenced their previous complaint. They said Oakwoods actions had put 
them in this position and we had previously upheld that complaint and said it hadnt acted 
fairly, so this was part of putting things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has set out, I cannot reconsider the previous complaint that was brought 
to our service. This case has had an ombudsmans final decision, so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment any further on the issue. I understand Mr and Mrs Hs points 
about how the cases link, but that doesnt change what I can and cant consider under this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have provided an explanation as to why they didnt make overpayments 
during the course of their previous complaint. And so I appreciate why they feel that it wasnt 
until our service upheld the case and their mortgage was extended that they could start 
these again.
However, Im sorry to disappoint them, but I do agree with our investigator that this was a 
choice they made. I understand it wasnt made lightly and that they felt there was 
considerable risk in continuing to make overpayments when the future of the mortgage and 
ultimately their property was unknown. But theres no evidence that Oakwood prevented 
them making the overpayments.
I understand Oakwoods other actions are what caused their concerns and do acknowledge 
that we upheld their other complaint. However this doesnt change my decision. Even if I 
accept their concerns and why they made the decision they did about the overpayments, 
that doesnt automatically mean they should get what theyre now asking for. The question I 
have to answer now is whether Oakwoods actions meant that they couldnt make the 
overpayments  and this isnt the case.
Mr and Mrs H made a choice not to make the overpayments while the other complaint was 
ongoing. So I cant fairly say that they should now be allowed to have a proportion of the 
mortgage interest free  to account for what they say they wouldve overpaid. And in any 
event, I also havent seen evidence that they wouldve definitely paid the amount they are 
now saying. So Im not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman