DRN-3696691
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) reported adverse information on his credit 
file unfairly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr T 
will be disappointed as he found himself in financial difficulty due to health issues coinciding 
with his fixed term contract of employment ending. And this all happened as the UK was 
moving out of the pandemic lockdown meaning it was difficult for him to find new 
employment quickly. Im genuinely sorry to hear that what has happened now means Mr Ts 
credit file will be impacted for six years. But I can only uphold this complaint if I concluded 
BOS had done something wrong or treated Mr T unfairly, and I dont think it did. Ill explain 
why.
Mr T contacted BOS towards the end of May 2021 for financial support when he was 
struggling to meet his credit card payments. As this happened when the UK was still 
impacted by the covid pandemic, Ive first thought about whether BOS should have offered 
Mr T a covid-related payment deferral. 
These payment deferrals were measures introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) under temporary guidance due to the pandemic. The guidance said that lenders 
should offer consumers impacted by the pandemic up to six months payment deferrals 
(taken in two blocks of three months). 
But in November 2020 the FCA said that lenders should not be giving deferrals under the 
Covid guidance that extend beyond 31 July 2021. As Mr T contacted BOS towards the end 
of May 2021, a three-month payment deferral would have gone beyond the July deadline. 
So, Im satisfied that a Covid-related payment deferral wasnt an option for Mr T. But, under 
normal regulations, when a consumer is in financial difficulty a lender is required to treat the 
consumer positively and sympathetically. So, Ive gone on to consider what BOS did to meet 
those obligations. 
   
From what Ive seen Mr T told BOS he expected his financial problems to be short-term. And 
BOS agreed a two-month nil repayment plan. This meant Mr T wasnt required to make any 
repayments for two months. Given Mr Ts circumstances, and that he said he expected to be 
back on his feet in the short-term, Im satisfied BOS treated Mr T fairly offering a short-term 
plan that provided Mr T with breathing space to find new employment. 
But the crux of Mr Ts complaint is that he says he wasnt aware that the nil repayment plan 
would negatively impact his credit file. And, as a result, this is now hampering his ability to 
obtain a mortgage. Ive given careful thought to whether BOS did enough to make Mr T 
aware of the impact the nil repayment would have. 
BOS says its standard procedure in circumstances like this is to read out a script which 
confirms  amongst other things, the impact a nil repayment plan will have on a credit file. Mr 
T doesnt dispute that BOS gave him this information. Rather, he says he wasnt in a good 
state to deal with this. I take this to mean he wouldnt have fully taken in what BOS was 
saying given his personal situation with his health at the time.
And I can appreciate taking everything in during a would have been difficult for Mr T. But 
BOS has provided a copy of a letter it sent Mr T following the telephone call. Im satisfied this 
clearly sets out  in the highlighted area under the heading Something to think about that 
being behind with payments can affect a credit score, make it harder to borrow money and 
will remain on a credit file for six years. 
Mr T says he didnt receive this letter so its unfair to use it as evidence. But the letter is 
dated the day of Mr Ts contact with BOS and is addressed correctly. So, on balance, Im 
persuaded it was most likely sent. Of course, its possible Mr T didnt get the letter, but I cant 
hold BOS responsible for a letter it sent that wasnt received. Overall, I think BOS did 
enough to let Mr T know that accepting the nil repayment plan would impact his credit file.
In any event, even if I thought that BOS hadnt made Mr T aware of the impact on his credit 
file, Im not persuaded this would change whats happened here. Its not in dispute that Mr T 
was in financial difficulty and couldnt meet his monthly payments for a few months  thats 
why he contacted BOS. So, I think its most likely Mr T would have always missed his credit 
card payments even if BOS hadnt offered the nil repayment plan. So, his credit file would 
have always been impacted. 
I know Mr T feels like he is being punished- particularly, as I understand he has been able to 
recommence his monthly payments. But lenders do have a duty to report factual information 
about credit accounts and how they are managed. Overall, Im not persuaded that BOS 
acted unfairly here. And Im not going to ask it to remove the information it recorded on Mr 
Ts credit file - because of the nil repayment plan, as this is an accurate reflection of what 
happened.
It may be helpful for Mr T to know that he can contact the credit reference agencies directly 
and ask to record a notice of correction  this means he has the opportunity to record his 
circumstances behind the missed payments. More information can be found here: 
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html 
https://help.equifax.co.uk/EquifaxOnlineHelp/s/article/How-can-a-Notice-of-
Correctionhelpme-manage-my-finances
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 Sandra Greene
Ombudsman