DRN-3277040
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly applied a default on his 
credit file. He also says that Barclays sent the default notice to the wrong address.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably, so she did not uphold the complaint.
Mr A disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr A and Barclays have provided, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why. 
I have started by considering whether Barclays decision to default Mr As account was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that in 2015 Mr A held a Higher Education account that included a £1,500 
overdraft facility. Barclays says that it changed the account to a standard current account in 
July 2015, although the £1,500 overdraft limit remained on the account.
Barclays sent a letter to Mr A in February 2016 as his account was significantly overdrawn 
and Barclays noted that the regular payments Mr A had previously been making to the 
account had ceased. The last credit Mr A paid into the account was in September 2015.
In April and July 2016, Barclays wrote to Mr A to say that hed incurred overdraft charges 
and said that if he was experiencing financial difficulties, he should get in contact with 
Barclays. As Barclays received no response from Mr A, it then wrote to Mr A to say that his 
banking facilities, which included his arranged overdraft, were being withdrawn. This letter 
explained that Mr A needed to repay the amount owed and said that if Mr A was unable to 
repay the amount owed, he should get in contact with Barclays.
On 1 July 2016 Barclays issued a termination notice (which is the equivalent of a default 
notice for an overdraft), which explained that the credit agreement was due to terminate on 
16 July 2016. As Mr A had still not made any payments into his account, the account was 
then put into default on 8 October 2016, and the debt sold to a third party.
Having considered the above events, overall I dont think that Barclays did act unfairly in 
applying the default on Mr As account when it did. Looking through the statements. I can 
see that Mr A had stopped paying money into the account in late 2015, at which point the 
account was significantly overdrawn. And when Barclays withdrew the overdraft, Mr A was 
aware of this as he called Barclays in April 2016 to ask for it to be reinstated. In that call, I 
can see he said he was until then, unaware that he needed to regularly pay money into the 
account. But despite becoming aware that he needed to make regular payments into the 
account in April 2016, he still didnt pay any money into the account.
As such, given that Mr A had not credited money into the account for over six months by the 
time the banking facilities were withdrawn, and hed still not credited money into the account 
after April 2016, then I think it was not only apparent that Mr A had breached the terms and 
conditions of his overdraft by failing to make regular credits to his account, but also that he 
was unlikely to repay the amount owed within a reasonable amount of time. I therefore think 
that Barclays decision to apply a default on Mr As account (and therefore on his credit file) 
due to him not repaying the overdrawn balance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I understand that one of the main reasons why Mr A says that the default being applied was 
unfair was because he says the letters being sent to him were not correctly addressed. He 
says that the address that Barclays had registered for him was missing his flat number.
Ive considered what Mr A has said, however, even if I were to conclude that the missing flat 
number in the address was due to an error made by Barclays, I dont think this means that 
the default should not apply. I say this because firstly, even though the address did not 
include his flat number, it was still the correct address, and Barclays has said that the letters 
were not being returned undelivered. So I think its possible that he still mightve received the 
default (and other) letter(s). 
Furthermore, if it was the case that Mr A didnt receive the default notice, I cant reasonably 
say that he wouldve done something different had he received it. I say this especially 
because even though he knew his overdraft was being withdrawn in April 2016 and that he 
was required to repay the amount owed on the account, he still did not credit any money into 
the account. As such, I cant reasonably say that the omission of the flat number in the 
address means that the default should not apply.
Finally, I understand that Mr A has said that he has suffered from a medical condition for 
many years, and this condition made it very difficult for him to deal with his finances. Im 
sorry to hear about this, and I do appreciate that managing his finances at the time mayve 
been very stressful for him. However, I cant see that Barclays was aware of this condition 
until 2020, so I cant reasonably say that it shouldve done something differently in 2016. 
Therefore, whilst I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed by this decision, overall, Im 
unable to say that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. It therefore 
follows, that I dont think it would be appropriate to require Barclays to amend Mr As credit 
file, or pay him compensation, as he has requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman