DRN-1751803
Complaint
Mr J says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when he took out a new credit card in 1999. 
Background
I can see that Mr J has already been offered some money for the commission Capital One 
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mr J had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mr J disagreed and still thought he had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. So he asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Capital One sent us the copy of Mr Js credit card application that he filled out back in 1999. 
From this, I can see it was a mailshot type form, which means in turn, that it was a postal 
application. I therefore think Mr J completed it in his own time and without any intervention 
from Capital One.
The form presented him with a yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card. He 
chose the yes box and left the no one empty. So I think he would have understood there 
was an option here and he consented to the policy.
Capital One didnt provide an advised sale so it needed only to provide Mr J with enough 
information so he could decide for himself whether or not he wanted PPI and whether it was 
right for him. There was a reference to further information about the policy rules directly next 
to where Mr J made the PPI selection and my experience is that this included information 
about the charges and other policy features. So I think he had enough information to decide 
what he wanted to do. I also note the PPI charges were featured on his monthly statements 
and he kept the policy for 4 years.
I completely accept Mr J may not remember all this after such a long time and Capital One 
may well have done a better job at explaining things on its forms. But Im afraid this doesnt 
change what I think. This is because he made the choice to have the PPI. He wasnt caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies and I think the charges were 
affordable for him and similar to those charged by other providers at the time. In the event of 
a successful claim on the PPI policy, Mr J would have also been able to have his 
outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. So looking at his overall situation, I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his 
application  I think he wanted the cover.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J. 
But it does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman