DRN-2098364
The complaint
Mr R complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr R took out six loans with Lending Stream between January 2018 and October 2019 with 
a gap of around 8 months or so in-between paying loan 2 and taking out loan 3. 
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Weekly 
instalmentsAmountHighest* 
monthly 
repayment
1 12-01-2018 20-06-2018 24 £480.00 £224.70
2 29-05-2018 12-09-2018 24 £750.00 £332.02
3 24-05-2019 25-05-2019 24 £300.00 £116.00
4 27-05-2019 09-09-2019 24 £650.00 £258.90
5 09-09-2019 30-09-2019 24 £360.00 £143.35
6 07-10-2019 06-12-2019 24 £450.00 £179.20
*including combined repayments where loans overlap
Mr R said that taking out six loans over this period of time showed he had become reliant on 
borrowing and he wasnt in a financially stable position and able to repay the loans.
When Mr R complained to Lending Stream it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly 
and the loans Lending Stream issued were fair and affordable based on the information Mr R 
provided at the time and the checks that were carried out. 
So Mr R brought his complaint to us.
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Rs circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
He didnt think there was any reason why Lending Stream shouldve been prompted to 
check what Mr R had said about his financial situation. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr R had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve 
alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. 
So he didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr R mainly feels that Lending Stream shouldve done additional checks and not all the 
loans shouldve been provided to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr R with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr R before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says it relied on information Mr R provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies and it agreed to 
Mr Rs applications after carrying out affordability checks. 
Lending Stream said it added up all his expenses and subtracted these from Mr Rs monthly 
income to see if he had enough money left to be able to pay his Lending Stream loans 
comfortably. And that this showed that repaying the balances shouldnt become difficult for 
him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
In coming to my decision, Ive looked at each of Mr Rs Lending Stream loans and thought 
about what Lending Stream knew, or shouldve known, about his financial situation each 
time he applied to borrow. 
loan 1 I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend Mr R loan 1. As this was his first loan with 
Lending Stream, I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information Mr R 
provided. This suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr R didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems.
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr R provided or the information 
Lending Stream had, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve enquired further into 
Mr Rs financial circumstances. 
So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr R took out his second loan when he was still paying for his first loan  and he borrowed a 
lot more money this time. But those arent sufficient reasons on their own for me to uphold 
the complaint. 
It looks like his income had gone up by around £1000 by the time he applied for loan 2  
giving him almost double the amount hed had when he applied for his first loan. And even 
after boosting his expenses (to allow a safety margin for error or any extra or unexpected 
costs he might have to pay) it still looked like the loan should be comfortably affordable for 
him.  
Although Mr R didnt make all his repayments on loan 1 on time, I still dont think Lending 
Stream had any particular reason to think that Mr R would likely find it hard to sustainably 
repay loan 2. And in the event, Mr R paid loan 1 before the date it was originally due. 
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs circumstances overall and 
his loan history at that time with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Lending Stream to ask Mr R for the amount of information that would be needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable before agreeing this loan. In other words, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Lending Stream to have asked to see the credit report or bank statements 
that Mr R has sent me. So if that wasnt information that Mr R told Lending Stream about, 
then Lending Stream wouldnt have known about it. And I cant fairly say that Lending 
Stream shouldve known about it. 
This is why Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 2. 
loan 3
The gap in lending between Mr R paying loan 2 and taking out loan 3 seems long enough to 
me for Lending Stream reasonably to think that Mr R mightve put his finances in order 
during this period. This meant that when Mr R applied for loan 3, he was effectively starting 
over. So it was fair for Lending Stream to treat this as new borrowing and assess his 
lending requests accordingly.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for 
Mr R, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream 
think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr R. I think that the amounts that Mr R needed to repay 
on this loan wouldve seemed easily affordable compared with the take home pay hed 
declared (which had gone up significantly again) and what hed told Lending Stream about 
his expenses. Even after Lending Stream had increased the figure Mr R provided for his 
anticipated expenses and taken into account what it looked like he was spending on other credit, this still shouldve left him with ample disposable income to cover the repayments on 
loan 3. 
And given what was apparent about his circumstances I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr R for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing this loan.
So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 3.
loan 4 
In the event it looks like Mr Rs borrowing plans changed quickly after taking out loan 3 
because he repaid loan 3 the next day and at the same time took out loan 4, when he 
borrowed more than twice as much. 
But this loan still looked like it shouldve been affordable for Mr R  his monthly income 
(even after Lending Stream downgraded the amount Mr R said) was still well in excess of 
£3,000  and his expenses worked out at less than £400. So this ought to have left Mr R 
with ample money to make the loan repayments  
I dont think Lending Stream had any reason to think it needed to ask any more in depth 
questions or check what Mr R was saying about his financial situation and the information it 
relied on didnt give any indication that hed find it hard to pay this loan in a sustainable way.
So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 4.
loan 5 
Mr R took out loan 5 the same day he repaid loan 4  but there wasnt anything to suggest 
he was having money problems. He borrowed a much smaller amount than the loan hed 
just repaid  and hed cleared loan 4 before the date it was due to be repaid. His financial 
situation was more or less unchanged. So I dont think Lending Stream wouldve seen 
anything that ought to have made it think that it needed more information about Mr Rs 
financial circumstances before agreeing to lend again or that it shouldnt have provided 
loan 5.  So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 5.
loan 6
Mr R took out this loan a week or so after he paid loan 5 early. Although this was for more 
money than the loan hed just repaid, the amount was well within the affordability figures 
Lending Stream had worked out based on what Mr R had told it and the information it had 
gathered about his finances. As far as I can see from what Lending Stream recorded for 
Mr R, he appears to have still been on a very high monthly income and his expenses were 
relatively modest compared to his take home pay. 
Mr R thinks that repeated borrowing can be a sign of someone becoming reliant on this sort 
of borrowing. And there does come a point where repeated borrowing probably indicates that 
a person has become dependent on taking out high cost short- term loans. And that lending 
would be unfair because it wasnt being used for the purpose it was intended for - to help 
with temporary or unexpected money problems.
But I cant fairly or reasonably say that Lending Stream shouldve realised that lending to 
Mr R had now become unfair by loan 6. This was effectively only his fourth loan in this chain 
of borrowing  and it looked like it should be easily affordable for him.  
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 6.Im sorry if these loans have caused problems for Mr R  and I can appreciate that his 
circumstances werent fully reflected in the information that Lending Stream relied on. But, 
I dont think that proportionate checks wouldve required Lending Stream to ask Mr R any 
more in-depth questions than it did or to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. I think its reasonable to say that Lending Stream was entitled to decide 
Mr Rs lending applications based on the information it had available at the time. And its 
lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when 
deciding whether to provide these loans.  
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say Lending Stream did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend to Mr R. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman