DRN-3262945
The complaint
Mr D is seeking to recover £50,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) 
after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In 2018, Mr D and his wife were looking for an investment opportunity which would 
ultimately provide them with an income. Mr Ds wife found an advert for a company online 
and contacted them to get some further information. Unbeknown to Mr and Mrs D, they 
were actually speaking with fraudsters acting as a clone of a legitimate regulated 
company and who were using all of the genuine companys documentation and literature. 
Mr D was offered a 6.7% guaranteed return on the investment opportunity presented to 
him. And after what appeared to be a genuine application and verification process, Mr D 
was sent an email with the account details he would need to make payment to.  
Mr D initially attempted to make an online transfer. But this was blocked as it exceeded Mr 
Ds daily online transfer limit. This prompted Mr D to call First Direct instead. First Direct 
have provided our service with a recording of this conversation which I have listened to in 
full.
In summary, there is some discussion around the transfer being made and Mr D informs 
First Directs call-handler of some of the checks he has completed to satisfy himself that 
the company he is dealing with is legitimate  this includes that his investment will be 
protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme  which he is quite adamant 
about. First Directs call-handler then takes down the account details provided to Mr D and 
warns him of the risk of email intercept scams. Mr D confirms he is happy and that he 
wishes to continue. 
The agent then tells Mr D that she is going to check the sort-code provider just to make 
sure who they are. She then tells Mr D that his money is being transferred to a company 
that I will refer to as Company T. This company is a money remittance service. This 
appears to only be mentioned briefly in passing and the conversation moves on. 
Once the transfer has been made, Mr D tells the call-handler the rate of return he is 
expecting. The agent comments that this is high and enquires if it is risk based. Mr D 
confirms it isnt and tells the agent the rate is guaranteed before the call comes to an end a 
few minutes later. 
Some months later, Mr D realises he has been the victim of a scam and he contacts First 
Direct to tell them what has happened. First Direct tell Mr D there is nothing further they 
can do to help him. 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr D brings his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looks into Mr Ds complaint and recommends that it should be 
upheld in full. He says that the payment going to a money remittance service shouldve 
been a red-flag for First Direct which shouldve raised concerns and these concerns 
shouldve been passed on to Mr D. He also pointed out that at the time the transfer was 
made, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued a warning about the genuine 
company Mr D thought he was dealing with having been cloned by scammers. Our 
investigator thought that had First Directs call-handler taken the time to educate Mr D 
about the possibility of cloned investment firms and what they looked like, as well as the 
necessity of checking the FCA website for warnings about such scams, he wouldve done 
so and the loss wouldve been prevented. 
First Direct didnt agree. It said that investment scams werent as well known in 2018 as 
they are now and its not fair for the investigator to apply todays knowledge to a scam that 
happened in 2018. It also said, that whilst the payment being made to Company T now 
may be a red-flag, little was known about Company T at the time.
Finally, it said it has also listened to the recording of the call that had taken place between 
Mr D and its call-handler and it was clear that Mr D had taken pride in the amount of due 
diligence he had completed to satisfy himself that the company he was dealing with was 
legitimate. First Direct felt that he was unlikely to have listened to its agents concerns, had 
any been raised, in the full behalf that he had already completed all of the necessary 
checks needed. First Direct pointed out that it wouldnt have been appropriate for its call-
handler to have interrogated Mr D about the investment at the time.  
Our investigator didnt change his mind. And, as an agreement could not been reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
It is not in dispute that Mr D authorised the scam payment himself. I accept that this payment 
was authorised even though Mr D was the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, under the 
Payment Services Regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr D is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
First Direct should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In summary, I consider that as a matter of good practice, First Direct should have been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having listened to the call, its clear that First Directs call-handler does identify that the 
payment is being made to Company T. Company T is a money transfer service generally 
used to transfer money abroad. It is not a business banking account, the type of which 
you would expect a genuine investment payment to be made to. And I agree with our 
investigator that this should have raised concerns. 
Ive taken on board what First Direct has said about little being known about Company T 
at the time this payment was made. I agree to some extent that its call-handler may have 
known little about the services Company T offered. But I dont think they necessarily 
needed to, in order to know that something might not be quite right here. It is unlikely that 
a genuine investment company wouldve requested payment to an account such as this. 
And this shouldve been pointed out to Mr D at the time. He hadnt realised he was 
making payment to any other company than the one he thought was investing in. 
I also dont agree with First Direct that the key characteristics of this type of scam 
wouldnt have been known at the time either. Im satisfied that this type of scam  an 
investment scam  wouldve been well-known to banks at the time. And so, Im 
persuaded that First Direct shouldve been concerned about the possibility of fraud here 
and that it shouldve asked some further questions about the payment and warned Mr D 
of potential fraud and scams before allowing him to proceed.
In other words, Im satisfied that there was a fairly obvious red-flag here that shouldve put 
First Direct on notice that something might not be quite right. But the evidence before us 
indicates that the call-handler did not ask Mr D any additional questions about the payment 
before proceeding. In my judgment, First Direct could and should have done more here, 
particularly given that good industry practice from the time encourages staff to ask 
questions about potentially fraudulent payments in order to test the purpose and legitimacy 
of the payment.
This is a particularly well-known scam. And so, Im persuaded that had bank staff asked 
some probing questions e.g. what the investment was for and its expected returns, and 
what checks Mr D had completed, some further concerns wouldve come to light and Im 
not persuaded Mr D wouldve agreed to continue with the payment. Specifically, having 
told Mr D that his payment was going to an odd account, Im persuaded that it would have 
been reasonable for First Direct to have asked Mr D if he had checked the FCA website for 
the possibility that the company he thought he was dealing with had been cloned. 
First Direct couldve then educated Mr D about this particular type of scam and its key 
characteristics. Mr D wouldve had no reason not to trust what the call-handler said. And 
Im satisfied that had Mr D been told that the payment he was making had some of the 
hallmarks of a well-known scam, he wouldve followed First Directs advice and checked the 
FCA website. Its then reasonable to assume that he wouldve then seen the FCA warning 
about this particular company and the scam wouldve been prevented. I dont agree with First Direct that Mr Ds conduct during the call indicates that he wouldnt 
have listened to any advice presented to him by the call-handler. He repeats on more than 
one occasion during the telephone conversation that his main priority is that the funds are 
protected. He discusses how he has taken some time to ensure that the investment has 
FSCS protection. At one point during the call, when Mr D thinks that the call-handler says 
the account details provided to him might be fraudulent, you can hear his concern. And so, 
whilst I agree with First Direct that it is clear that Mr D takes some pride in the checks he 
has completed thus far, I dont think this means that; when presented with genuine 
concerns about the transfer he was making, he wouldve proceeded regardless. Mr D 
presented himself throughout the call as entirely risk averse.  
In other words, if the call-handler had carried out further or better questioning in line with a 
banks duty of care, and educated Mr D about this type of scam and its key characteristics, 
it seems probable that Mr D would have become credulous about the scam in time and 
decided not to make the payment at all. The fraud would have failed; and Mr D would not 
have lost £50,000.
I have also considered whether Mr D should bear some responsibility in terms of his 
actions. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. He thought he was sensibly investing his savings with a 
legitimate investment company. I am satisfied that Mr D was the unwitting and blameless 
victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr D was a 
layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied First Direct missed an opportunity to identify that Mr D 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud which couldve ultimately prevented the scam. Im 
persuaded it should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr D for the loss he suffered without 
any reduction together with interest to compensate him for being deprived of the money 
he lost. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct)  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mr D £50,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of 
my final decision; 
Pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% simple from the date of the loss to the 
date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman