DRN-3220186
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr C had income protection insurance with Unum through his previous employers group 
scheme. He became too unwell to work in March 2020 owing to work-related stress and 
anxiety. The policy had a 12-week deferral period and so he made a claim in May, but this 
was declined. Mr C no longer works for this employer and his employment ceased in 
September 2020. 
Unum said it declined Mr Cs claim because there wasnt enough medical evidence to show 
he was incapacitated as described by its policy terms. The policy is for Mr Cs insured 
occupation and so whilst it acknowledged that Mr C suffered from anxiety, this was borne 
from perceived problems with his previous employer, and so Mr C would have likely been 
able to fulfil his insured occupation elsewhere with another employer. It also said that work-
related stress isnt an illness and so there wasnt cover for that either. 
Our investigator agreed with Unum and said that the policy isnt designed to cover this type 
of absence. She also said that in order for Mr C to bring a successful claim, hed need to 
show, by way of medical evidence, that hed have been unable to meet the demands of his 
role with another employer. Or, in other words, that he persuasively demonstrated that this 
issue isnt simply driven by the perceived work-related issues Unum was told about by his 
previous employer. Our investigator also highlighted that Mr C had declined consent for 
Unum to review his therapists notes, and that this limited Unums ability to investigate his 
claim thoroughly. 
Mr C disagreed with her findings. There were several comments and arguments made 
following her opinion, but Ill only summarise those I consider to be central to the points Im 
considering as part of my final decision. Mr C said;
There were no work-related problems that caused him to become absent. He 
explained that hed not made any representations in this regard and so was at a 
loss to understand why this had been referred to by the investigator;
 Hed been diagnosed as suffering with anxiety as well as work-related stress. 
However, Unum hasnt taken this seriously or given it the appropriate attention 
whilst it considered his claim. Mr C subsequently, following the investigators 
opinion, elaborated on some of the personal triggers that contributed to his poor 
mental health to show that his absence wasnt because of the perceived work-
related problems;
He maintained his position on not releasing his therapists notes saying that they are 
personal and not necessary to evidence his claim with Unum. Mr C said that for 
Unum to make this request was unprofessional. Mr C also commented that it feels 
unfair that he has to effectively prove his case to Unum. 
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the reasons already explained by our 
investigator. Thats to say that I dont think Unum has made an error in declining Mr Cs 
claim. Ill explain why.
Unums policy terms say;
Insured  occupation  cover
A member  is incapacitated  if we are satisfied  that they are:
Unable,  by reason  of their illness  or injury,  to perform  the material  and substantial  duties  of 
the insured  occupation,  and are
Not performing  any occupation
If the member  is required  by the terms  governing  the employment  relationship  to hold a licence  
or certificate  which  is issued  only when  the member  meets  required  medical  standards,  we 
must  also be satisfied  that they are unable,  by reason  of their illness  or injury,  to perform  the 
material  and substantial  duties  of any gainful  occupation  with any employer  for which  they are 
reasonably  fitted  by reason  of training,  education  or experience.  The term "licence"  does  not 
include  a licence  to drive  ordinary  cars,  vans or motorcycles.  
Definitions
Insured  occupation  means  the trade,  profession  or general  role that the member  was 
actively  undertaking  for you immediately  prior to incapacity.  For the insured  occupation  
cover  definition  of incapacity,  material  and substantial  duties  means  the duties  that are 
normally  required  for the performance  of the member's  insured  occupation  and which  
cannot  be reasonably  omitted  or modified.  It is those  duties  required  for the performance  of 
the occupation  at their,  or any other  employer
The reason Ive highlighted this term is because this, ultimately, sets the focus for this 
complaint. Having carefully considered our investigators findings, I agree that Mr C satisfied 
part of the policy as theres enough medical evidence to support that he suffered a mental 
health condition that precluded him from working for his previous employer. But he didnt 
satisfy the remaining terms, which is why Unum hasnt made an error in declining his claim. 
I say that because this policy is for Mr Cs insured occupation, which, as already explained 
by our investigator, means that Mr C would need to demonstrate that he was incapacitated, 
by way of illness, to such a degree that hed be unable to fulfil his duties with any other 
employer.
Mr Cs previous employer explained to Unum that it had some concerns with Mr Cs conduct 
at work and noted a specific incident that took place shortly before he became unwell and 
unable to work. The previous employer wanted to investigate this incident further and told 
Unum that it intended to invoke its disciplinary policy. I note Mr C has disputed this 
previously and I should make clear that its not for this service to make a finding on as this 
was between Mr C and his previous employer. But its still part of the background to this 
complaint and Unum, as the other party here, has brought this to our attention. I think its important because it further strengthens the view that Mr C was having problems 
at work in the run up to becoming absent. 
Mr C also accepted that he was suffering with work-related stress and even insisted that this 
be documented by his GP. As our investigator explained, this isnt considered an illness and 
therefore I wouldnt have expected Unum to uphold a claim on that basis. But I think it further 
demonstrates that Mr C was experiencing work-related issues. The reason Im referring to 
work-related problems, stresses and issues is because Im persuaded that Mr Cs problems, 
not in full, but in part, were brought on by his work. And thats important because I think it 
persuasively shows that Mr C, although unable to complete his duties whilst working for that 
employer, would have most likely been able to fulfil his insured occupation whilst working 
elsewhere. 
Ive already noted Mr Cs arguments in challenge to that, but Im not persuaded by them. 
Clearly, I must reach a decision on this complaint and I cannot be certain one way or the 
other, but thats not the test applied here. I must be satisfied, on the balance of probability, 
whats most likely to have happened. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im persuaded that 
the prominent contributory factors were work-related, because theres enough persuasive 
medical evidence, from Mr Cs GP, Unum and indeed Mr Cs own testimony that persuades 
me this was most likely the case. 
I also thought it important that I note Mr Cs comments about releasing his therapy notes. I 
should say that it wasnt inappropriate for Unum to request to see this information. I know Mr 
C received advice that this was in some way unusual or irrelevant, but I wanted to reassure 
him thats not the case. Insurers need to see all necessary medical information when making 
these types of decision. In fact, by not releasing this information, Mr C has potentially and 
inadvertently prejudiced his position. Its likely there would have been information captured 
within those notes that would have been material to the outcome of this claim. Further, its 
not unusual for psychotherapists to write an assessment in support of their patients claims 
and I think this could have helped in this situation.
I noted Mr Cs response to the investigator, where he explained some of the other, more 
personal issues that were affecting him at that time and I wanted to say that I was sorry to 
learn about those. I think it would have been helpful for Mr C to have shared some of this 
background with Unum at the time because it would have given it more of an insight into 
what was happening and how it was contributing to Mr Cs poor mental health, in addition to 
the work-related issues. Although, I dont think it fair to retrospectively hold Unum 
responsible in any way for not knowing the full extent of what was happening in Mr Cs life at 
that time. This is perhaps something that would have been made accessible had Mr C 
authorised the release of his therapists notes.  
In any event, based on the medical evidence that was made available, there wasnt enough 
to show that Mr C fulfilled the policy terms and so Unum doesnt need to do anything more in 
respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman