DRN-4249371
The complaint
Ms F, representing M (a limited company), complains that New Wave Credit Limited (trading 
as Capital on Tap) has held M responsible for transactions which were not authorised.
What happened
On 12 September 2022 Mr B, a director of M, received a text alert stating that spending on 
Ms Capital On Tap account had reached 50% of the credit limit. Mr B logged onto Ms online 
banking and discovered that a series of payments totalling over £18,000 had been made 
from Ms account 
Mr B contacted Capital On Tap, he says he was told that pending payments could be 
stopped, but that was not the case, and all the payments went through. It transpired that an 
employee of M, who Ill call R, had been given a card for the account to use for business 
purposes. He had been contacted by scammers and manipulated into providing details of 
the card, the scammers then used those details to make the disputed payments.
Mr B complained to Capital On Tap on Ms behalf, as he said the transactions had not been 
authorised by M.  
Capital On Tap reviewed the complaint and held M liable for the transactions because it said 
it was against the terms and conditions of the account for M to allow someone who was not 
a named cardholder to use the card. Capital On Tap considered that M had not kept the card 
details safe and so was responsible for any unauthorised transactions.
Mr B didnt agree, so he referred Ms complaint to our service. Our investigator initially 
recommended that Ms complaint be upheld. He considered that, regardless of the fact that 
R had been given access to the card, the transactions themselves had been carried out 
without Ms consent. So our investigator thought that Capital On Tap should refund the 
disputed payments and pay M £300 to recognise any inconvenience caused.
Capital On Tap didnt agree. They felt that, as an agent of M, R had acted against clear 
guidance in the credit agreement regarding what to do if you believed a card had been 
compromised. Capital On Tap stated that R should have contacted it directly when the 
fraudsters suggested the card had been compromised, rather than sharing the card details 
with the fraudster so that they could check. 
The Investigator reconsidered their findings, and explained that, on reflection, he considered 
that M had failed to act in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. He also 
noted that, in line with the relevant regulations, M can be held responsible for unauthorised 
transactions if it acted with intent or gross negligence and felt that sharing the card with 
someone who was not a named card-holder was an obvious risk. He concluded that it was 
therefore reasonable for Capital On Tap to hold M responsible for the disputed transactions. 
M did not agree, so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional findings on this complaint on 13 July 2023, all relevant parties have now 
confirmed they accept those findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Generally, Capital On Tap can hold M for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that it is more likely than not that it authorised these payments or gave someone else 
consent to make them on its behalf.
Im satisfied that these payments were properly authenticated  that is that the genuine card 
details were used to make these transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  
specifically the Payment Services Regulations 2017 - say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Capital On Tap to hold M liable. 
The relevant regulations say that a payment transaction is authorised only if the payer  in 
this case M  has given its consent to the execution of the payment transaction. All parties 
here appear to be in agreement that Mr B (acting on behalf of M) gave a card for the account 
to an employee  R  to use for business purposes. This means that R was effectively 
authorised by M to use the card on its behalf.
But the transactions in dispute here were not made by R, they were made by a fraudster 
who manipulated R into sharing card details. The fraudster then used those card details to 
make payments  it appears they added the card to an electronic wallet on their own device 
and then use that to make contactless payments in stores.
So, when considering the circumstances of this complaint, I think Ms consent extended only 
to payments that R made. Neither M nor a person acting on its behalf consented to the 
payments the fraudsters made. So the starting point here is that M should not be held liable 
for these transactions as they were not authorised. 
Capital On Tap has said that M did not comply with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms require M not to share the card, account or security details with anyone other than 
cardholders. Capital On Taps account terms go on to detail that it wont refund unauthorised 
transactions if the account holder has acted fraudulently or has been grossly negligent with 
(or intentionally shared) their card or security details. 
While R was not a named cardholder, he was an employee of M, who had the card for 
purposes relating to Ms business and was acting as Ms agent. M is a limited company, and 
a separate legal entity, but it has people to act on its behalf. Theres no suggestion here that 
Ms representatives have acted fraudulently, so I dont intend to comment on that issue 
further. However, Ms named cardholder did share the card details with an employee, R. 
But I think there is a distinction to be made between sharing the card with an employee of 
the legal entity for business purposes and sharing the card with a third party. And I dont 
think it would be fair to conclude that M, as the consumer here, had acted with intent or 
gross negligence in doing so. This is because 1) of the relationship between M and R (that 
he was an employee using the card on behalf of M) and 2) that the contract here is between 
M and Capital on Tap  not between specific named card holders and Capital on Tap. 
Ive gone on to think about whether R, as a representative of M, acted with intent or gross 
negligence when sharing the card information with a third party as part of the same. Given 
the apparent sophistication of the fraud that was perpetrated on R, and that he believed he was taking steps to protect the account, I dont think I can fairly say that he intentionally 
shared the card details or was otherwise grossly negligent.
I have already explained my reasoning here to Capital on Tap, and it has disagreed with my 
proposed findings. Specifically, Capital on Tap has said that its terms and conditions make it 
clear that cards are issued to name cardholders and that card details should not be shared 
with anyone who is not a named cardholder. I agree that M does appear to have breached 
the terms and conditions of the account by sharing the card details in this way, but I dont 
think that means that Capital on Tap is then relived of any obligations regarding 
unauthorised transactions.  
I note that Capital on Tap believes that breaching the terms and conditions in this way 
amounts to an act of gross negligence by M, but I dont agree. The bar for gross negligence 
is high, M would have to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness. And I dont 
consider that sharing the card details with a trusted employee meets that high bar. 
I also note what Capital on Tap has said about the information that would have been 
provided to R about avoiding scams if he had been added as a named cardholder. 
Specifically, Capital on Tap has referred to a newsletter sent out in the weeks prior to the 
fraud, which confirmed that Capital on Tap would never ask cardholders to share one-time 
passcodes, card numbers, or security details. I dont though consider that it is reasonable to 
say that had R been sent this information the scam could have been avoided. There is no 
guarantee that such information  which was apparently contained in a newsletter, and not 
specific information provided at the time of a transaction  would have been read, nor that it 
would have prevented a sophisticated scam from taking place. Ultimately R was tricked into 
handing over card details, by a third party he believed was working for the card aggregator 
app he used, and Im satisfied that by sharing the details he did in these particular 
circumstances Im satisfied that R  as a representative of M  did not act with gross 
negligence or intent.
With all of this in mind I am currently intending to find that it was not fair for Capital On Tap 
to hold M liable for the disputed payments. Im not satisfied Capital on Tap has 
demonstrated that M or its representative acted with gross negligence or intent, or that M or 
its representatives failed to comply with the spirit of the relevant regulations.
The relevant regulations say that M can be held liable for up to the first £35 of any loss
arising from use of their credit token even where it has been used without consent. As this is
allowed for in the terms and conditions of this account, I would find it fair and reasonable for
Capital On Tap to withhold up to £35 from the total amount refunded.
Our Investigator initially suggested that Capital On Tap pay M £300 to recognise the 
inconvenience caused here, and I am currently minded to agree that amount is fair. Bearing 
in mind that M is a limited company, and therefore cannot be distressed by what has 
happened.
Given that capital On Tap and M (and its representatives) have confirmed they accept my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change the findings Ive set out above.
Putting things right
To put things right Capital on Tap should:
refund the disputed transactions, withholding the first £35 in line with their terms and 
conditions if they choose to do so;rework Ms account as if the transactions have never happened;
if M have had to pay more towards their Capital On Tap account than they would 
have otherwise had to, that amount should also be refunded to them; and
pay M £300 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above, if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman