DRN-3397636
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled a Chargeback 
request. He would like a refund of the item he purchased.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary one governed by a set of rules laid down by 
the relevant card scheme not by the banks. The Scheme sets out the rules for a 
chargeback to be allowed and what is expected of the parties involved. Banks dont 
have to consider chargeback requests but we think its good practice that they do if 
the claim has a reasonable chance of success. So, I am pleased that Barclays did 
consider a chargeback for Mr B
Mr B has made a few points about how Barclays handled the chargeback ,one of 
which related to Barclays  crediting his account with the money he paid for an item 
he says was faulty and not properly installed but then re debiting the money when it 
found no grounds for a chargeback. The usual process is to issue a refund whilst the 
request is being investigated but if the evidence doesnt support a valid claim, as 
was the case here, the refund  is then taken back. In terms of process I dont think 
Barclays  has done anything wrong
In terms of Barclays actions from what I have seen it correctly followed the scheme 
rules. It contacted the merchant to give it an opportunity to defend the claim. I have 
seen the merchants detailed response. Barclays then  wrote to  Mr B on 28  and 29 
September 2020 giving him 7 days to  provide more information. I have seen both 
letters, as they were correctly addressed, and as  Barclays customer notes refer to 
them being sent I do believe they were sent. As Barclays received no response to 
these letters it closed the case and re debited the account. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. The  merchant had given detailed evidence and, with no substantial 
evidence from Mr B to contradict the merchants points, I dont think Barclays had 
grounds to pursue a claim
I accept Mr B says he called Barclays several times to offer information. Its 
frustrating that Barclays hasnt been able to provide copies of the calls for us to 
listen to. But I have seen the information Mr B sent Barclays after it closed his case.  
Mr Bs dispute was about quality of goods  Barclays view was that the merchants 
evidence was compelling , the goods were of sound quality and it had engaged with 
Mr B. It didnt feel the further evidence Mr B supplied would have changed the 
outcome. Having  seen both the merchant evidence and Mr Bs communications I 
dont think Barclays conclusion was unreasonable, and  I dont think I have any 
grounds to  ask Barclays to refund the cost of the item Mr B bought he would like..
Barclays accepts it wrongly told Mr B in November 2020 that the money it credited to 
his account was his to keep. So, I appreciate Mr Bs  distress and inconvenience 
when in January 2021 the money was taken back from his account  particularly as 
it was a large sum of money. Barclays has apologised for this and accepted our 
investigators suggestion that £300  compensation is a more appropriate sum than 
the £150 Barclays originally offered.  I agree that, in the circumstances this is a more 
reasonable sum.
Barclays also offered to refund any overdraft charges Mr B incurred because of the 
money being taken back from his account. I think that is reasonable
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank UK PLC should:-
pay Mr B £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
refund any overdraft charges Mr B incurred as a result of  Barclays taking back  the 
money it credited to Mr Bs account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman