DRN-1814675
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Zopa Limited are holding her liable for a loan she didnt take out. And 
shed like the loan written off. 
What happened
In July 2017 a loan for £11,500 was taken out in Mrs A name with Zopa. 
Mrs A contacted Zopa in September 2019 to advise that the loan was taken out without her 
consent, and Mr A (her fiancee at the time) had taken out the loan.
Mr A also contacted both Zopa and the police to advise that hed taken out the loan without
Mrs As consent. Zopa investigated Mrs As concerns, however didnt uphold her complaint. 
They continued to hold Mrs A liable as they thought shed benefited from the loan - via 
payments which were made towards her wedding - and because Mr As not their customer 
they couldnt hold him liable. 
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with Zopas conclusion so brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint and upheld it. They thought that Zopa 
didn't act fairly, and as Mr A had advised both the police and Zopa he'd taken the loan out 
without Mrs As consent they should write off the debt, and pay her £150 compensation for 
the stress caused. Zopa didn't accept our investigator's first view, and asked for a second 
opinion. Our investigator reviewed Zopa's comments but didn't change their opinion. Zopa 
didn't agree, and raised a number of points including:
How did Mrs A not notice the loan until two years later?
Mrs A should be held liable because she benefited from the loan
They believe Mrs A is liable for the debt not the business
Mr A hasn't made arrangements to pay the debt 
 
As Zopa didnt accept our investigators view its been referred to me for a decision. On 
picking up Mrs As decision I reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator and 
shared my initial thoughts with both Zopa and Mrs A. I concluded that it wasnt fair for Zopa 
to hold Mrs A liable for the debt, and I thought they could have stopped chasing her for the 
debt much sooner and therefore should pay £500 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mrs A accepted my thoughts, but Zopa didnt. In response they said:
They dont think its fair that Mrs As wedding was paid for by stolen funds, and think 
she should be expected to pay this back.
They assume that any other types of purchase paid for with stolen funds would need 
to be returned  so why should Mrs A not pay back the stolen funds used to pay for 
her own wedding?
Zopa doesnt think its fair that they should compensate her for the distress caused 
by her husband. 
As Zopa didnt accept my initial thoughts Ive reconsidered my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres two things for me to consider here when looking at this case. Firstly whether on 
balance I think that Mrs A applied for or consented to the loan application. And secondly, if I 
believe that Mrs A didnt consent to the loan  did she benefit from any of the funds, and if so 
is it fair for her to pay back some or all of the principal loan amount. 
Did Mrs A consent to the loan?
I've considered whether Mr A had the means to take out the Zopa loan in Mrs As name. And 
I'm satisfied he did. I say this because Mr A lived with his fiancee at the time of the loan, and 
it's highly likely in the circumstances that he knew Mrs A's account details.
Furthermore, no identification documents were asked for when the loan was taken out. Zopa
have argued that letters were sent to Mrs As home address regarding the loan over a two
year period, however as Mr A also lived at the home address he had the opportunity to
intercept her post.
I've moved on to consider whether I think it's likely Mr A took out the loan in Mrs As
name. Mr A has confessed to taking out this and other loans in Mrs As name - and I've seen 
evidence other businesses have written off loans due to Mr A contacting the companies 
directly and reporting it to the police. I've also seen notes from an interview Mr A had with 
the police during which he admitted to taking out, without Mrs As knowledge, loans in her 
name - this includes the Zopa loan. And I've also seen evidence that Mr A directly contacted 
Zopa to inform them he'd taken out the loan. 
I'm satisfied that Zopa were dealing with a fraudster, Mr A, who was pretending to be Mrs A. 
As such, I don't think it's fair that Mrs A should be held responsible for the loan when she 
didn't consent to the loan being taken out. I understand that Zopa want Mr A to be 
prosecuted, and believe that Mrs A needs to go to the police to ask for prosecution. Zopa are 
also concerned that Mr A hasn't made any arrangements to pay the debt off. However my 
role here is to consider whether Zopa can hold Mrs A responsible for the loan. Not whether 
Zopa will have a chance to recover the funds in the future. And I'm not satisfied they can, 
because Mrs A didn't sign the loan agreement and a third party has admitted to taking out 
the loan in Mrs As name.
Zopa has argued that Mrs A could have contacted them sooner. I've considered this point, 
but as the third party lived with Mrs A I find it more likely than not they were intercepting her 
post. In any case, I'm satisfied Mrs A didn't take out the loan. So, even if she could have put 
Zopa on notice sooner than September 2019 it doesn't change the fact that Mrs A didn't 
consent to the loan.
Did Mrs A benefit from the loan?
Ive thought about whether Mrs A benefited from the loan funds. Zopa have argued that  
payments were made from the loan towards her wedding. I understand Zopa's position here 
- however it doesn't change my thoughts on Mrs As case. Mrs A didn't consent to the loan, and - as advised by Mr A to both the police and Zopa - she wasn't aware the loan credited 
her account. And therefore didnt knowingly spend the funds. 
Whether Mrs A benefited from the loan or not on balance I don't believe she was aware of 
the source of the funds which were used to pay for her wedding. For me to conclude that 
Mrs A should be held liable for some of the debt which she benefitted from, I need to be 
satisfied that she either had knowledge of the loan funds which came into her account or 
strong evidence she ought to have known. However, there's no evidence Mrs A spent the 
funds and considering Mr A provided statements saying he spent them I think it's more likely 
than not this was the case. Mrs As also explained that she thought their wedding was being 
paid for by a loan shed consented to being taken out with a third party bank. It follows I can't 
conclude Mrs A knowingly benefited from the loan funds. 
If Mrs A was required to repay the funds, shed be detrimentally impacted as shes not 
gained any assets from the use of the loan funds. I appreciate that Zopa dont agree with my 
conclusions here  but Im satisfied its not fair or reasonable for Mrs A to be required to pay 
back any of the loan funds when she didnt knowingly spend or benefit from them.  
Mrs A has suffered stress and anxiety since discovering the loan was taken out fraudulently 
in her name. This was increased by her being pregnant at the time and needing to take time 
off work. I accept that some of her stress was caused by the fraudster. However I think Zopa 
could have done significantly more here. Mrs A notified Zopa in September 2019 that a loan 
had been taken out fraudulently in her name. But despite the police confirming to Zopa that 
somebody known to Mrs A had committed fraud and Mr A directly contacting Zopa to advise 
them of the same information, they haven't taken any action to remove the debt. 
Zopa dont believe they should compensate Mrs A because its Mr A who committed a crime 
and caused Mrs A distress. Ive thought about the businesses argument, however Im not 
directing Zopa to pay compensation for allowing the loan to be taken out, instead I think they 
could have done more when they were contacted by both Mr A and Mrs A notifying them the 
loan had been taken out fraudulently. Because the loan wasnt written off, and Zopa continue 
to chase Mrs A for repayment I think they caused her a significant level of stress and anxiety 
 in addition to the distress caused by Mr A. 
Putting things right
In conclusion I don't think that Mrs A consented to the loan with Zopa, and therefore
she shouldn't be responsible for the debt. I think its fair and reasonable for Zopa to write-off 
the debt based on the evidence that's been provided. And I think Zopa should also 
compensate Mrs A in recognition of the impact caused to her by failing to write-off the debt 
sooner.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Zopa Limited to:
 
Write off the balance of owing on the loan and remove any associated interest 
charges
Remove any negative markers and reference to the loan from Mrs As credit file
Pay Mrs A £500 in compensation for the distress caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 Jeff Burch
Ombudsman