DRN-4278596
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the amount Haven Insurance Company Limited has paid in 
settlement of his claim under his Commercial Vehicle Insurance Policy. 
Mr L is represented by Miss S.
What happened
Mr Ls vehicle, which was insured under his policy, was stolen and he made a claim for it. 
Haven investigated the loss and offered £18,000 in settlement of the claim. This was 
because it thought the maximum amount payable was the Limit(s) of Coverage shown in 
the schedule. This amount would have been paid to the company which provided Mr L with 
the finance to buy the vehicle. Mr L told Haven he didnt think this was enough. Haven 
increased its offer, on what it said was a goodwill basis, to £19,800. Mr L still wasnt happy 
with this offer, so he complained. Haven wouldnt increase its offer, so Mr L asked us to 
consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ls complaint. She said it should be upheld and 
Haven should settle Mr Ls claim using a value for his vehicle of £28,091. This was because 
she didnt think it was fair for Haven to rely on the Limit(s) of Coverage because this wasnt 
specified in the policy schedule. And she explained that shed checked the guides we use  
for valuing vehicles and felt the highest guide value was the right one to use. She also said 
Haven should add interest to the amount due at 8%, as well as paying £100 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr L had experienced as a result of Haven offering less 
than it should have done. 
Miss S said Mr L agreed with the investigators view. Haven said it agreed with it as well in 
principle. But it thought the value it used to settle Mr Ls claim should be based on an 
average of two of the guides of £25,694. The investigator asked Miss S if Mr L would accept 
settlement on this basis. She said he wouldnt. As Haven wouldnt agree to use the higher 
figure suggested by the investigator the complaint was referred to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ls policy say that if the vehicle insured is stolen and not recovered, Haven 
will pay the Market Value at the date it was stolen, subject to the Limit of Coverage shown 
in the schedule. The Limit of coverage is not shown in the schedule that was provided to     
Mr L, but it is defined elsewhere in the policy as the Value shown in the Schedule. The 
value shown in Mr Ls policy schedule is £18,000. However, I agree with our investigators 
view that it is not fair for Haven to rely on the Limit(s) of Coverage because it was not 
actually detailed in the schedule provided to Mr L. This is because it means the policy terms 
are unclear and I think in this situation it is fair for Mr L to get the benefit of the interpretation 
most favourable to him. In my opinion, this would be for him to receive the Market Value of 
his vehicle at the time it was stolen as defined in the policy. This is defined as the cost of 
replacing the insured vehicle with one of a similar make, model and specification, taking into 
account the mileage and condition at the time it was stolen. 
Working out the market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science and there are a number of 
factors that can influence it. We rely most heavily on the recognised guides for valuing 
vehicles, but we also place weight on adverts and  in some cases  the purchase price if 
the purchase was close to the time the vehicle was stolen or damaged. Mr L paid around 
£28,000 for his vehicle not long before it was stolen. And there is nothing that suggests to 
me it was over-priced. I say this because one of the guides we used put the value at £28,091 
at the time it was stolen. So, bearing in mind what Mr L paid for it just before this, like our 
investigator, I think it is right for Haven to use the highest guide value as the market value to 
settle Mr Ls claim, as opposed to the average of the lowest and the highest guide values. 
This means I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ls complaint Haven 
must settle his claim using a market value of £28,091. However, as Haven is using the 
market value of Mr Ls vehicle, as opposed to the value shown in the schedule, I think it is 
entitled to deduct the policy excess. 
Ive also noted that Mr L would have paid a higher premium if hed chosen the amount he 
paid for the vehicle as the value when he took out the policy. He didnt do this and instead 
went with the value it seems was automatically produced by the website he used to arrange 
his insurance. But, if hed noticed and amended the value as he should have done, hed 
have paid more in premium. I dont know how much the extra premium would have been, but 
Haven can work this out and deduct it from the settlement figure along with the excess, 
which Haven have told us is £1,000, although I havent considered whether this is right or 
appropriate as part of this complaint. 
In addition to the basic amount due, I agree with our investigator that Haven should add 
interest to it at 8% per annum simple to compensate Mr L for the fact hes had to use his 
own money to carry on paying the finance. The interest rate on the finance was broadly the 
same, so I think 8% is fair. I appreciate Haven did offer to clear the majority of the finance 
with the £19,800 it had offered to Mr L and he decided against this even though Haven told 
him it wouldnt mean he accepted this amount in full and final settlement. But I can 
understand Mr Ls caution in not doing so, especially as Haven didnt specifically explain to 
him it would not have any impact on his complaint to us. So, Im satisfied interest should be 
paid on the total amount due to Mr L. And because the finance should have been cleared 
shortly after Haven made its first offer of settlement, I think interest needs to be paid from the 
date it made this offer.  
Mr Ls policy says that before Mr L receives anything in settlement of his claim the amount 
due to the finance company must be paid to them. Then any balance will be due to Mr L. So, 
Haven will need to pay what is needed from the settlement amount, plus interest, to clear the 
finance and then pay the balance to Mr L. 
I also agree with our investigator that Havens failure to recognise the lack of clarity in the 
policy wording and schedule and offer the correct settlement to Mr L caused him distress 
and inconvenience and I also agree £100 is the right amount of compensation for this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Haven must do the following:
Pay £28,091 to settle his claim, less the policy excess and the extra premium hed have 
paid if hed chosen the purchase price of his vehicle as the value when he took out the 
policy. 
Pay interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple from the date it made its first offer 
to settle Mr Ls claim to the date of actual payment.
£100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Haven Insurance Company Limited 
and order it to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman