DRN-3668552
The complaint
Mr K complains about Citibank UK Limited and their failure to process three cheques he sent 
to them by post.
What happened
Mr K held accounts with Citibank. In January 2022, he sent three cheques with a total value 
of almost £5,000 to them by post as per their set process. But Mr Ks accounts werent 
credited and so, he contacted Citibank to query why this was.
Citibank replied saying the cheques hadnt been received. But Mr K disputed this, explaining 
the postal services tracking information showed the envelope containing the cheques as 
delivered and signed for. Citibanks stance remained the same and Mr K was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K was unhappy that Citibank failed to process his cheques when he thought it was clear 
they had been received by post. And he thought Citibanks suggestion of requesting new 
cheques which he could lodge in their head office was neither fair nor reasonable. So, he 
wanted to be compensated for the upset and inconvenience he was caused when having to 
request new cheques, as well as the impact of being without the funds. Mr K also wanted 
Citibank to provide a more in-depth explanation of their postal process.
Citibank responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought they had acted fairly as 
they were satisfied the envelope containing the cheques hadnt been received. And they 
thought their suggestion of obtaining new cheques, and depositing them in person, were 
reasonable alternative options. So, while they appreciated Mr K had been without his funds 
for an unexpected period of time, they didnt think they were responsible for this. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought it was most likely the 
cheques had been received by Citibank, as they had seen evidence that showed the 
envelope had been signed for in the same way that previous cheques had which had been 
credited to Mr Ks account. And they didnt think Citibanks suggestion of re-depositing the 
cheque in their head office was reasonable, considering where Mr K lived. So, they thought 
Citibank were responsible for the upset and inconvenience Mr K had been caused needing 
to obtain new cheques, as well as the impact of not having the funds available. So, they 
thought Citibank should pay Mr K £150 to recognise this.
Mr K accepted this after a discussion with our investigator about the remit of our service, and 
the role of the industry regulator. But Citibank didnt agree. They maintained their position 
that the cheques hadnt been received. And they explained their post was received through 
the postal services contactless service, so they didnt think the signature used on the 
previous deliveries was theirs. Or that it meant the disputed cheques had been signed for by 
them. As Citibank didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. I recognise Mr K had a series of questions he 
wanted answering by Citibank. And he was hoping we could direct Citibank to answer these. 
But this isnt something our service has the powers to enforce. Nor is our service able to 
comment upon, or direct Citibank to change, the processes they have in place to accept 
post. This would be the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Instead, it is our services role to consider the service a business such as Citibank provided 
and determine whether or not we think it was fair and reasonable. And if we dont, we then 
consider what we think the business should do to place a customer back in the position they 
wouldve been, had they acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, both Mr K and Citibank have provided evidence they feel supports their 
position. Mr K has provided tracking information from the postal service which suggests the 
envelope containing the cheques was signed for and received. While Citibank has provided 
evidence that suggests that, despite the postal service showing the envelope as signed for, 
the cheques were never received onto their system.
Unfortunately, Im unable to say for certain exactly what happened to the cheques. So, Ive 
thought about what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities, 
based on the evidence and information I have available.
What I do know for certain is that Mr K sent an envelope containing the cheques to Citibank, 
using the postal service, in line with the process Citibank sets out. So, my consideration 
focuses on what I think is most likely to have happened to these cheques after this point.
I can see the process Mr K followed was the same as the process hes followed on several 
occasions, before and after the lost cheques were sent. And what I can see is that, on the 
other occasions, the post Mr K sent to Citibank was received and signed for using the same 
signature that is shown on the tracking information provided for the lost cheques. And, the 
tracking information also shows that each delivery was signed for around the same time on 
different days.
Citibank have explained they have a contactless delivery system in place, due to COVID-19. 
So, I can understand Citibanks dispute surrounding the signature and the delivery. But I 
dont think this means Citibank didnt receive the cheques. Even if it wasnt a Citibank 
employee that signed for the envelope itself, as contactless delivery means a customer 
signature isnt asked for, I dont think it would then be reasonable for me to assume that the 
loss of the cheque becomes the responsibility of the postal service.
If I were to make this assumption, I would be deciding that the postal service fraudulently 
signed to say the cheques had been delivered, when they hadnt. And I have seen no 
evidence to suggest this is something the postal service would do, as theyve delivered Mr 
Ks other cheques without issue, using the same signature.So, on the balance of probability, I think its more likely than not that the envelope containing 
the cheques were delivered to Citibank correctly. And that its more likely than not that 
Citibank failed to process this incoming post correctly, in a way that ensured the values of 
the cheques were credited to Mr Ks accounts. And I think this is both unfair and 
unreasonable.
So, as I think Citibank acted unfairly and unreasonably, Ive then thought about what I think 
they should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Had Citibank acted fairly, I think they wouldve processed Mr Ks cheques and he wouldve 
been credited with the funds, which I note are for a significant amount. As this didnt happen, 
Mr K needed to obtain new cheques, which hes explained was difficult and time consuming 
to arrange as the cheque issuers were located abroad. Ive seen an email chain which 
satisfies me of this difficulty.
And this difficulty resulted in Mr K being without the new cheques for a period of time, 
meaning he didnt have access to the funds. Mr K has explained because of this, he needed 
to use his own funds to pay a tax bill. While I appreciate Mr K was able to pay this bill and 
so, hasnt suffered any penalties because of this, I can understand the short-term 
unexpected impact this wouldve had on his immediate finances.
I also dont think Citibanks suggestion of Mr K attending their head office in Canary Wharf to 
lodge the cheques in person was a reasonable one, considering the time and cost this 
wouldve taken due to Mr Ks location.
I think all of impact listed above wouldve been both upsetting and inconvenient for Mr K. So, 
I think Citibank should compensate Mr K for this. Our investigator recommended Citibank 
pay Mr K £150 to recognise this upset and inconvenience and I think this payment falls in 
line with our services approach and what I wouldve recommended, had it not already been 
made. So, I think Citibank should pay Mr K this amount to fairly resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint about Citibank UK Limited and I 
direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr K £150 to recognise the upset and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman