The complaint
Mr O has complained that around six or seven years ago National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) told him that if he chose to downgrade his packaged bank account to a cheaper 
account, he wont be able to have a packaged account again. Mr O says that he went into 
branch in 2018 and was told the same information again.
Mr O also complained that when he went to claim on the mobile phone insurance recently, 
he was unable to get a like-for-like replacement.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Os complaint and she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website and Ive taken that into consideration when looking into this complaint. And having 
done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I 
have to decide what I think was more likely to have happened, based on everything that has 
been said and provided.
I understand the main point of Mr Os complaint is that he asked if he could downgrade his 
account and he was told he could, but if he did, he wont be able to have a packaged 
account again. Mr O says that this conversation took place around the time of a mobile 
phone insurance claim. Unfortunately NatWest has no evidence of this conversation, or even 
when it mightve happened. 
Firstly I think it would be helpful to set out Mr Os account history. Mr O held a fee-free 
account since at least March 2009. This was then upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Gold 
account in July 2012. It was then changed to fee-paying Select Platinum account in July 
2015.
I also think it would be useful to set out when these products were available for new 
consumers, or consumers who had downgraded their accounts:
Advantage Gold account launched in 1997.
Advantage Gold withdrawn from being available to new or returning customers in
April 2013.
DRN-1980127Existing Advantage Gold customers were migrated to a Select Platinum account in 
July 2015.
Select Platinum withdrawn from being available to new and returning customers in 
October 2015.
NatWest has said that it has never been part of its process to tell consumers that they wont 
be able to have any packaged account again if they downgraded. But I understand that it 
would warn a consumer if they were downgrading a packaged account that was no longer 
available, should they wish to apply for it again. 
Mr O has not been able to say when exactly he had the conversation with NatWest. But 
based on when he believes it to have taken place (in 2019 he said possibly 3-4 years ago), 
its possible this conversation happened when Mr O held the Advantage Gold account -
which by then were no longer available to new and returning customers. So I think that he 
was given the correct information about his account i.e. if he downgraded his account, he 
wont be able to have the Advantage Gold account again. 
I accept its possible that the conversation took place after his account had already been 
changed to a Select Platinum account. But I think its likely the information he was given was 
still correct. I say this because the Select Platinum account was not available to new or 
returning customers not long after it had been added to Mr Os account.
Mr O says that he asked again in 2018 if he could downgrade. He says he was told the 
same thing - that he could downgrade his account to a fee-free account, but wont be able to 
return back to the packaged account. Again I think Mr O was given correct information, as 
NatWest stopped selling the Select Platinum account in October 2015.
Mr O says that, when he had these conversations, he was led to believe that he wont be 
able to get any packaged account again, rather than just the one he had. But I find it unlikely 
that NatWest would have said that Mr O could not get any packaged bank account in the 
future. I think that it is more likely that NatWest was referring to the account that he held at 
the time of each conversation  he was after all discussing whether to downgrade his 
packaged account to save money. So I cant say that it was more likely than not that 
NatWest gave Mr O information about the possibility of obtaining any packaged accounts in 
the future.
To resolve this complaint, Mr O wants the account fees hes paid since the first conversation 
took place. I understand this is because he feels hes been paying much more than he really 
needed to over the years. He says he was only really relying on the mobile phone cover 
provided by his packaged account. 
But if Mr O thought that the packaged account was poor value for money, Ive seen nothing 
that wouldve prevented Mr O from downgrading his account to a fee-free account and 
buying the insurance products elsewhere. After all Mr O was aware that fee-free accounts 
existed, and even based on Mr Os recollections of his conversations, NatWest said he could 
downgrade his account. Therefore, I dont think its appropriate to require NatWest to refund 
the account fees because Mr O didnt downgrade his account on the off chance that he 
might have wanted to use some of the other benefits it provided in the future. 
Finally, in his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr O has said that the point he 
initially raised about his mobile phone claim not being settled on a like-for-like basis is no 
longer important. However, for the sake of clarity, Id like to explain that we cant consider 
how the insurance claim was settled in this complaint. That complaint would have to be 
considered against the mobile phone insurer, as the insurer is responsible for how claims 
are handled, not NatWest.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
Thomas White
Ombudsman