DRN-2219653
The complaint
Mrs K complains AXA Insurance UK Plc said her car isnt insured with them after she was
involved in an accident.
Mrs K has been represented on this complaint, for ease of reading any reference to Mrs K
also includes her representative.
What happened
Mrs K was coming out of her driveway in the evening and was hit by a van driving down the
road. The van then veered onto the other side of the road and into oncoming traffic, sadly
killing the driver of another car.
Mrs K called AXA to claim on her insurance. The policy Mrs K thought her car was insured
under was a commercial vehicle insurance policy. The policy is in a businesss name which
Ill refer to as C. Mrs Ks husband is a director of C and is able to add his personal vehicles 
to the policy. Mrs K is also a beneficiary under the policy as she is able to drive Cs vehicles
and covered for social, domestic and pleasure use.
AXA reviewed Mrs Ks claim and declined it. They said while the policy allowed for personal
vehicles to be added to it, they hadnt been made aware that Mrs K needed to add this car.
And the policy said personal vehicles would only be covered if AXA had been notified of
them and agreed to provide cover.
Mrs K didnt think this was fair and complained. She said the car had been added to the
policy as it was listed on the motor insurance database (MID). She also said she had an
insurance certificate showing the same registration number as the one on her car.
AXA looked into Mrs Ks complaint and didnt uphold it. They said while C was allowed to
add the vehicles it bought and sold onto MID, personal vehicles had to be agreed by AXA
before being covered. AXA also said they werent notified when a vehicle was added to MID,
which is why C needed to tell AXA about the personal car. AXA also said the certificate of
insurance was for Mrs Ks previous personal car, which they had been told about. Mrs K had
previously owned another car of the same make but a different model which had a cherished
number plate on. AXA had agreed to cover this car and that was the one the insurance 
certificate was for, it was also the car listed under the personal vehicles section on the policy
when it had been renewed. Mrs K didnt think this was fair and brought the complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2020 where I said: The 
policy Mrs K has complained about is a commercial insurance road risks policy. The policy is 
one designed to cover a business which is in the motor trade. It allows the business to buy 
and sell cars and ensures their stock and customers vehicles are insured. Because the 
policy can cover lots of cars its normal for the policy holder to be able to add business 
vehicles directly onto MID. The policy C has also allowed for personal vehicles to be added
to it but says AXA should be made aware beforehand and added to the policy as an
endorsement.
The renewal invitation sent by AXA has a heading for personally owned vehicles and says:
Cover does not automatically extend to include any personally owned vehicles. We are still
able to offer cover in respect of vehicles that are privately owned by any director of a limited
company but these must be added to the policy by endorsement and a specified certificate
issued. Full details (make, model, value, registration number and owner) of any such 
vehicles will need to be notified to us as and when cover is required and a charge may be
made. Deletions should also be advised and the specified certificate returned.
Ive reviewed this term and Im satisfied its clear that AXA needs to be made aware of any
personal vehicles before theyre covered by the policy. Also, as they need to be added to the
policy by an endorsement and a separate insurance certificate issued, Im not satisfied that
by adding them to MID is the same as notifying AXA. I say this because the MID is a central
database and AXA isnt made aware when vehicles are added or removed to it. And, as a
separate insurance certificate needs to be issued for personal vehicles, C would need to
have obtained this from AXA. Im also satisfied Mrs Ks new car was a personal one as the
registration document and finance agreement for it are in her husbands name.
Ive considered Mrs Ks point about having an insurance certificate for her new car. Im not
persuaded it was for that car, even though it had the same registration number on it. I say
this because the insurance certificate was issued in April 2018 and Mrs K didnt get her new
car until October 2018. So, I think the certificate was the one issued for her previous car. 
And as the policy says it should have been returned when the previous car was no longer on
cover Im not persuaded AXA intended for it to be used on another car, even with the same
registration.
As Im satisfied Mrs Ks new car should have been added as a personal car but wasnt, Ive
also looked at whether it was covered under the policy as a customers car being in the
custody of C. Having done so I dont think it was. Mrs K said her car had been taken to C to
be repaired and was only at home as the repair couldnt be completed that day. The time of
the accident was in the evening, after most garages are closed. In addition, Mrs K said at the
time she was driving it was for personal reasons. Im therefore not satisfied that at the time
of the accident the car was in the custody of C.
I understand this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs K and Im sorry to hear
about the impact the accident has had.
Our investigator checked to see if Mrs K had received the provisional decision, she 
confirmed she had and while she disagreed, she did have any further comments. AXA didnt 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman