DRN-2699421
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont remove a default marker it put on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr E had a number of accounts with HSBC. In March 2019 HSBC were notified of a 
bankruptcy order made against him. It wrote to him and demanded payment of all debt it was 
owed. HSBC also defaulted his accounts. 
In January 2020 Mr Es bankruptcy was annulled as he paid off all money that was owed. He 
contacted HSBC to ask it to remove the default marker that was now on his credit file. HSBC 
didnt agree to this and Mr E made a complaint.
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had a duty to report true and accurate 
information to the credit agencies and it was satisfied this is what it had done, so it wouldnt 
amend the record.
Mr E didnt think this was fair. He said the annulment said it would put him back into the 
position he would have been in if he hadnt had the bankruptcy order. And with the default on 
his file, this wasnt the case. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint be upheld. She said as the bankruptcy had 
been annulled due to payment rather than due to an error, it was fair that HSBC hadnt taken 
action to remove the default. As this was a true reflection of his credit history.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint I need to first decide if HSBC has done something wrong. 
And if I find it has, I will decide how it should put things right.
In this case HSBC applied a default marker to Mr Es credit file. It then refused to remove it 
after Mr Es bankruptcy was annulled. So I first considered whether it was fair to apply the 
default in the first place.
In March 2019 HSBC was notified of a bankruptcy order made against Mr E. It wrote to him 
and asked for payment of all funds it owed the bank. It also froze and defaulted his accounts 
with debt owing. This is normal procedure when a bank is notified of a bankruptcy. So Im 
satisfied that HSBC acted fairly by defaulting the accounts at the time.
Next I need to consider if HSBC has acted fairly by refusing to remove the marker, now 
Mr Es bankruptcy has been annulled. As I think HSBC acted fairly when it defaulted Mr Es 
accounts, this comes down to whether the annulment of the bankruptcy changes this.  
Mr E has shown that the bankruptcy was annulled due to payment of money owed. But 
HSBC made the decision at the time that it would default the accounts. This decision was 
based on Mr Es financial position at the time, which it was notified of through the bankruptcy 
order. But as this is a true reflection of his situation at the time, I dont think its acted unfairly 
by now refusing the remove the marker.
It is also of note that the default marker on his credit file shows as settled with a zero 
balance. As the debt has now been repaid, Im satisfied that this is a true reflection of Mr Es 
account history.
Mr E has said that the annulment is put in place with the intention to put him back in the 
position he would have been in if the bankruptcy order hadnt been placed against him. 
However HSBC decided to default the account at the time the order was received, due to Mr 
Es financial position at that time. And the annulment of the bankruptcy doesnt change that. 
If the bankruptcy annulment had been agreed due to an error, then my view may be 
different. But as it was due to repayment of the debts then I think the default is an accurate 
record of Mr Es position at the time.  
This service would expect HSBC to report accurate information to the credit referencing 
agencies. As it has updated the defaults as settled, Im satisfied it has done this. So I wont 
ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman