DRN-3409540
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) cant provide more information about money 
she held in her savings account with it.
Halifax is a division of Bank of Scotland, for ease Ive referred to Bank of Scotland 
throughout. 
Mrs C is represented by Mr M, again for ease Ive referred to statements made by Mr M as 
being made by Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs C and her husband had several savings accounts with Bank of Scotland, they say the 
last communication they had on these accounts was a statement they received dated April 
1997. Mr and Mrs C visited the branch to enquire about the accounts, but say they were told 
the bank had no recollection of them. Mrs C isnt happy with this and would like Bank of 
Scotland to pay them the balance from these accounts plus interest.
Bank of Scotland said Mrs Cs Tessa account closed in February 1999 when the balance 
was withdrawn, but it couldnt provide any further information because of the length of time 
that has passed since it closed. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the statement    
Mrs C had from 1997 only showed a snapshot of her account and said the individual account 
statements showed it had been closed. Our investigator also thought it was understandable 
that Bank of Scotland had limited information considering the length of time that had passed. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs complaint relates to several savings accounts she and her husband held with Bank 
of Scotland. Ive reviewed their joint accounts and Mr Cs sole account under separate 
references. Therefore, Ive only considered Mrs Cs Tessa here. Having done so, I agree 
with the outcome reached by the investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered the Tessa account statement provided by Bank of Scotland 
alongside the 1997 shares account statement provided by Mrs C. The 1997 statement 
shows the balance in her Tessa account as at February 1997. I can see the balance shown 
on Mrs Cs Tessa statement for that time is the same as shown on the 1997 statement. So, 
Im satisfied the figures are accurate for that time. However, I dont find the account still held 
the same amount of money by the time Bank of Scotland says it closed.
Bank of Scotlands records show Mrs Cs Tessa was opened in August 1993 and matured 
five years later in August 1998. They also show the balance was withdrawn in February 
1999, after it matured, and there were no further transactions. The status of the account 
shows it was closed as at the time of the account report in January 2000 and it also shows 
the last statement for this account was produced in February 1999. 
Mrs C thinks the funds from her account may have been transferred to various charities, but 
I dont think so. When an account is left dormant, the bank may transfer money left in it to an 
organisation to be distributed to several charities. However, the statements show Mrs Cs 
Tessa was active and they dont indicate it was left dormant, so on balance I think its likely 
Mrs C withdrew the funds or transferred them elsewhere and closed the account. 
Banks arent required to hold information indefinitely, and considering its been over 20 years 
since the transaction was carried out and the account was closed, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that it has limited information and cant tell where the funds went on closure.
Based on the available information, I think its likely Mrs Cs Tessa account closed around the 
time the funds were withdrawn from it in February 1999. I also havent seen anything that 
suggests the account carried a balance beyond this date. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
ask Bank of Scotland to pay Mrs C the money previously held in her Tessa. 
Its unfortunate Mrs C had to visit the branch and didnt get the answer she had hoped for. 
Bank of Scotland acknowledged the service she received was poor. Ive addressed this 
under a separate reference, so I wont go over it again here. In the circumstances, I think 
Bank of Scotland has been fair and reasonable in its investigation into Mrs Cs account, so I 
dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman