DRN-4345092
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, placed adverse markers on his 
credit file.
What happened
In March 2023, Mr P made a payment of £10.39 to Halifax to clear the outstanding balance 
on his credit account at that time. The following month, Mr P made an indemnity claim to 
recover the payment that hed made because he didnt understand where the £10.39 
balance had come from. But because Mr P had the £10.39 payment reimbursed via the 
indemnity claim, this meant that his credit account balance of £10.39 for the prior month 
wasnt paid. And this meant that Halifax reported a missed payment for that month to Mr Ps 
credit file. Mr P wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy about an overlimit marker 
that had been applied to his credit file by Halifax previously. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr Ps complaint and said that the overlimit marker had been applied to 
his credit file correctly. However, regarding the £10.39 late payment marker, while Halifax 
noted that they didnt have a recording of the call to confirm exactly what Mr P had been told, 
they felt that it might have been the case that the legitimacy of the balance wasnt clearly 
explained to Mr P. And Halifax also felt that if Mr P had been clearly told that the £10.39 
balance was legitimate, he might not have requested the reimbursement that caused him to 
miss the payment. And because of this, Halifax agreed to remove the late payment marker 
from Mr Ps credit file and sent a cheque of £75 to him by way of compensation.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response because he felt the late payment marker had 
directly caused a mortgage application hed made to be declined, and that a larger amount 
of compensation was therefore merited. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Halifaxs response to the 
complaint, including the removal of the late payment marker from Mr Ps credit file and the 
£75 compensation, already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear from Mr Ps credit account statements that on 12 July 2018, Mr P 
made a transaction for £3,814.95, at a time when his credit limit for the account was only 
£3,500. Im therefore satisfied that Mr P did exceed the credit limit on his account by way of 
this single overlimit transaction, and that therefore Halifaxs reporting his account as going 
overlimit on his credit file for that month is both correct and fair. And so, I wont be upholding 
this aspect of his complaint.
In January 2023, Mr P made a payment to his credit account to clear the outstanding amount 
owed on the account and leave the account with a zero balance. He then made a purchase 
for £111.08 and received credits into the account of £16.99 and £83.70. And this purchase 
amount of £111.08, minus the combined credits amount of £100.69, left an outstanding 
balance on his account of £10.39  which was explained to Mr P via his February 2023 
account statement.
Mr P paid the £10.39 balance in March 2023, but then requested its reimbursement from 
Halifax the following month, having explained to them that he didnt understand where the 
£10.39 balance had come from.
Halifax note that they dont have a recording of the telephone call when Mr P advised that he 
didnt understand the £10.39 balance and requested its reimbursement. And because of this 
theyve accepted that the legitimacy of the £10.39 balance might not have been explained to 
Mr P by their agent on the call, and that Mr P might not have requested the reimbursement if 
the legitimacy of the balance had been explained to him. And Halifax agreed to remove the 
late payment marker that Mr P had incurred on his credit file because he requested the 
reimbursement of the legitimate monthly account payment he'd made, and they also sent a 
£75 cheque to Mr P as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred.  
Halifaxs position on this aspect of Mr Ps complaint seems generous to me. I say this 
because I feel the legitimacy of the £10.39 balance was clearly explained to Mr P on his 
February 2023 account statement, which showed the purchase and credits which led to the 
£10.39 as Ive described above. And that it should have been evident to Mr P via a relatively 
simple monitoring of his credit account, in line with his responsibilities as the account holder.
I make this point because Mr P has claimed that the presence of the late payment marker on 
his credit file, before Halifax removed it, directly led to a mortgage application hed made 
being rejected. And hes seeking a much larger level of compensation from Halifax that the 
£75 theyve already sent him because of this.
But I feel that Mr P, as the account holder, should reasonably have been aware how the 
£10.39 balance had occurred, given that it involves three transactions and given that it was 
clearly described on his account statements. And I find it difficult to understand what Mr P 
expected to happen when he requested the reimbursement of a £10.39 monthly account 
payment that was described as being outstanding on his account statements  other than 
that a missed payment would be retrospectively recorded against him for that month.
Additionally, Mr Ps credit file already had adverse reporting because of the correctly applied 
overlimit marker in 2018. And while our investigator has explained to Mr P that this service 
would only consider awarding consequential loss as Mr P claims occurred here if he can 
provide evidence to confirm that his mortgage application was declined solely because of the 
late payment marker in question, Mr P hasnt provided any such evidence. And so, taking all 
these factors into consideration, I also wont be upholding this aspect of his complaint. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Halifax need to do anything further to that which 
theyve already done in response to Mr Ps complaint, and so I wont be instructing them to 
take any further or alternative action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was 
wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman