DRN-4154785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly 
refused to meet a claim they made on their home insurance. In addition they believe theyve 
been over charged for their insurance for many years. 
What happened
The claim
Mr and Mrs L suffered damage to their roof in late 2021 during a named storm. A couple of 
days later they contacted RSA to start a claim and said theyd started the repair process. 
They were asked to submit quotes etc to show the likely cost of repairs. A couple of weeks 
later Mr and Mrs L sent RSA a quote for £975, and RSA asked for photos of the damage. Mr 
L explained he didnt have any but invited RSA to inspect the work.
RSA sent a contractor out, but not until early February 2022. The contractor said he thought 
the damage was caused by the natural breakdown of materials rather than the storm, so 
RSA decided it need not meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs L complained a few days later. RSA didnt issue its final findings until the end of 
May. At that point it said it was wrong when it initially refused the claim and that it would 
settle it in part by paying for the replacement of two ridge tiles. It said it would pay Mr and 
Mrs L £50 compensation for not getting this right initially.
The policy - pricing and suitability
Mr L contacted RSA in mid-2021 as he and Mrs L were moving home, and he wanted to 
transfer the insurance to the new property. During the conversation he was asked if his new 
property was also thatched.  He confirmed that neither his previous or new properties have 
been thatched, and believes that, as his and Mrs Ls premiums went down after this call, that 
they may well have been overcharged for many years.
Mr and Mrs L say also that they were told by an agent from RSA that only new properties 
were covered for storm damage. So they think the policy may have been mis-sold as it was 
not fit for purpose. RSA says Mr and Mrs L have mis-interpreted what its agent said  which 
was that the policy excludes damage thats built up over a period of time  not that the policy 
only covers new properties.
When our investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, he thought that RSA should pay 
towards more of the roof damage repairs  that is not only the ridge tiles but also the lead 
flashing and some tiles nearby that had lifted. He thought the £50 compensation for the way 
the claim was handled was appropriate. 
With regard to the pricing complaint, he looked at the comments from RSA which explained 
why there had been no loading on the price of the policy, and in addition explained why the 
price went down when Mr and Mrs L moved house. He said the information was 
commercially sensitive, but that he was satisfied Mr and Mrs L hadnt been overcharged.
He also checked the wording of Mr and Mrs Ls policy and was satisfied that it did not 
exclude all but new properties from storm damage cover  so he didnt think it had been mis-
sold.
He did think RSA should have done more when assessing the claim and communicating with 
Mr and Mrs L about this. He recommended that RSA pay Mr and Mrs L £200 compensation 
(including the £50 already offered) to make up for this.
Mr and Mrs L dont accept RSAs explanation about the pricing as given to our investigator 
by its underwriters and pricing departments.
Nor are they satisfied with RSAs explanation of what its assessor said about only new 
properties being covered. Mr L says that refusing claims for damage caused by the natural 
breakdown of materials is no different to saying only new properties are covered. He goes 
on to say that neither he nor Mrs L have ever seen their policy document so hes surprised 
RSA is now relying on an exclusion for wear and tear which its never defined. He says that 
if RSA had inspected the roof as it should have that it would have realised the roof was in a 
reasonable condition  and that was confirmed by his builder.
Mr and Mrs L remain convinced that they have been paying for a policy that wasnt fit for 
purpose for many years and want all their premiums returned plus interest and 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point that has been raised in this complaint, although I 
have read all the paperwork from both parties. Instead Ill limit my comments to the most 
important points in the complaint.
There are several main points here and Ill comment on them separately.
The policy
It might help if I start with the policy and whether it was suitable or not for Mr and Mrs L. Its 
difficult to say what Mr and Mrs L bought in, as they say, the 1990s. Ive seen no records of 
what insurance they bought or indeed who provided it. But I can say that the policy Mr and 
Mrs L claimed under does cover properties both new and old. There is, as is common in 
most such policies, an exclusion that says RSA need not meet a claim where a property is 
not in a reasonable condition before, say, a storm. I cant say Mr and Mrs L have been 
disadvantaged by this exclusion as it would be most unlikely they could buy a policy that 
didnt include similar terms. So I dont think the policy they claimed under was unsuitable. I 
do however agree entirely that RSA and its agent(s) mishandled the claim and didnt explain 
things properly. But that in itself doesnt mean the policy was unfit for purpose  although it 
might suggest RSA needs to train its staff more thoroughly.
Policy pricing
Turning to this part of the complaint, I can understand why Mr and Mrs L think theyve been 
overcharged for years on their policy. And I can assure them that I havent just taken RSAs 
word that theyve not overcharged Mr and Mrs L. I have looked carefully at the records RSA 
holds and how the details they record about a property influence the cost of a policy. Im 
satisfied RSA didnt load any extra cost on because of the incorrect data it held about the property being thatched. Im sorry I cant explain this in great detail but RSA is entitled to 
classify some things as commercially confidential and Im persuaded that policy pricing falls 
under this heading. 
I can say that the cost of a policy can be affected by many things  such as how high risk a 
particular postcode area is, whether windows have locks, how many bedrooms etc. Its not 
unusual that moving house meant that the cost of the policy changed, given the number of 
associated factors that would change in these circumstances.
The claim
RSA has acknowledged that it didnt handle the claim well, and nor did it communicate as it 
should have with Mr and Mrs L. And although I do understand why Mr and Mrs L are 
annoyed about this, RSA cant reverse the things it did wrong  it can only offer some 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience Mr and Mrs L have suffered because of the 
way it behaved.
As for the claim itself, RSA told us some time ago that it would make a part payment towards 
the damage and offer Mr and Mrs L £50 to make up for the way it initially dealt with the 
claim. Our investigator didnt think that the offer to pay for repairs went far enough. He 
pointed out that Mr and Mrs L hadnt asked RSA to pay for all the repairs  only the ridge 
tiles and a couple nearby which were damaged when the ridge tiles were dislodged, and the 
flashing, which he believed could have been damaged by the storm. RSA has agreed to pay 
for these items and if it hasnt done so already it should do so immediately  Mr and Mrs L 
might need to provide a breakdown of how much of their entire repair bill was for the relevant 
items.
Compensation
Our investigator didnt think the £50 offered by RSA was sufficient to make up for the 
problems it had caused and I agree with this. Having looked at all that has happened I agree 
that this should be increased to £200 in total. That reflects the sort of awards this service 
usually makes in circumstances like Mr and Mrs Ls. 
Putting things right
To put things right (if it hasnt already done so) RSA should agree with Mr and Mrs L the cost 
of repairs to the ridge tiles, the adjacent damaged tiles and the flashing. Given that Mr and 
Mrs L have already had the repairs done, RSA must use the costs they paid for these items 
as a basis for settlement.
RSA must also pay Mr and Mrs L £200 compensation for the way it handled the claim and 
other communications, less any amount its already paid out in respect of this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay the amounts outlined above within 28 days of the date of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 Susan Peters
Ombudsman