DRN-4081687
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained about the actions of Marsh Ltd when 
dealing with its Real Estate insurance policy.
Mr P, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf. 
What happened
G is a property management company for a number of buildings. G was insured on a Real 
Estate insurance policy, along with the freeholder/developer of the buildings. 
G decided to seek separate cover for some of the buildings it manages as it was unhappy 
that Marsh had refused to add a third party contractor to the policy and had not explained 
why. G said it was offered better terms and a reduced premium by a new broker. 
G said that Marsh was informed on 31 March 2022 that G had appointed a new broker and 
no longer required its policy. However, the new broker then told G that the policy previously 
offered by the insurers was no longer available. G believes that Marsh spoke with the policy 
insurers to scupper and frustrate the offer of alternative cover. G said it was compelled to 
retain the policy arranged through Marsh, although it then moved the cover to a different 
broker. It said this cost its management and directors a considerable amount of time and it 
also lost the opportunity to take cover at a reduced premium. 
G complained to Marsh. It said that Marsh had breached the following Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Principles for Business: 
a firm must conduct its business with integrity
a firm must observe proper standards of market conduct
a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
a firm must pay due regards to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading 
a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers 
and between a customer and another client.
Marsh said it had seen no evidence of its employees thwarting Gs attempts to take cover 
elsewhere and did not think it had acted incorrectly. 
Unhappy with Marshs response, G brought its complaint to our service. 
Marsh said that it was informed by the insurer that G had appointed a different broker by 
phone on 31 March 2022 and by email on 1 April 2022. Marsh said it checked with the other 
policyholder, who it considers to be its client and, shortly after that, it advised the insurer that 
there was no reason for them not to proceed with the new broker. 
Our Investigator looked into Gs complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He did not 
think that there was sufficient evidence to support that Marsh had done anything wrong. He 
noted that Gs insurer had thanked Marsh for its smooth transfer and timely acceptance of 
the letter of appointment.
G asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said the new broker was working to a completion 
date of 31 March 2022 and that is the date which Marsh spoke with the insurers to influence 
them on the sale of the new policy. Therefore, anything which happened after that date did 
not provide any indication of Marshs actions on 31 March 2022. G remained of the view that 
Marshs actions had cost it just under £85,000 in cheaper premiums and asked to be 
compensated for this. It also said £750 would be a fair amount of compensation for Marsh to 
pay for the inconvenience it had caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When bringing its complaint to our service, G also complained about the actions of Marsh 
which led to its decision to move to a different broker. While I appreciate the link between 
these complaints I consider them to be different acts or omissions and therefore our service 
will deal with them separately. I have issued a separate decision on the other complaint and 
therefore will not comment on it further in this decision. 
It is agreed that Marsh was informed that G wished to change brokers on 31 March 2022. 
Marsh said that the insurer informed it of this by phone. I have asked Marsh for a copy of 
calls between it and the insurer on 31 March 2022 and 1 April 2022, but it said the calls were 
not recorded. So, I have to reach a decision based on what I think is most likely. 
I understand that G believes that Marsh interfered with its attempt to gain a cheaper 
premium but I have not seen anything other than Gs comments to support this. I do not find 
the fact that G was offered a policy by its new broker and then told it was no longer 
available, to be sufficiently persuasive of Marsh acting to influence the insurer. 
I appreciate that G does not believe that anything which occurred after 31 March 2022 is 
indicative of Marshs actions on that date. However, even though it occurred afterwards, I 
believe the evidence Marsh has provided, such as the letter from the insurer which thanked 
it for its actions in enabling the transfer, also support Marshs account of what happened. 
When taking everything into account, I have not seen enough to persuade me that Marsh 
had any involvement in Gs new policy no longer being available. For completeness, I have 
also not seen anything to persuade me that Marsh did not comply with the FCA Principles for 
Business which G has referred to. 
I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about this but, having considered things very carefully, 
I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman