DRN-3011645
The complaint
Mr R complains that he didnt receive a delivery for an item he purchased using credit from 
J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R has explained that he ordered the item on 8 September 2020. Hes provided a copy of 
the order information that gives an approximate delivery date of 16 September 2019. The 
business has explained that date was bettered because the item was in stock. I think thats a 
reasonable explanation for why the delivery took place on 10 September 2020. 
Theyve provided tracking information that shows the delivery was made. The tracking 
information is signed XP1 and a box explains that it was received by Mr R. The courier  
website explains that during the pandemic:
We will not be handing over our hand-held devices to customers to capture signatures but 
instead log the name of the person accepting the item.  
I think that explains why the delivery is signed XP1 and not in Mr Rs name. I cant see that 
the courier was taking photographs of deliveries at this time and so I dont find the absence 
of any photographic evidence of receipt unusual.
Given the tracking evidence that JD Williams were provided with I dont think were 
unreasonable when they refused to refund Mr R  for the item. So, Im afraid I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman