The complaint
Mrs R complains that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria Forsakring) wont refund 
her pet insurance policy premiums.
Mrs R will see that my decision is about her as a sole complainant, rather than a joint 
complainant with her husband as detailed in our investigators correspondence. Mrs R is the 
sole policyholder and the correct complainant for my decision to be about. The change in 
complainant hasnt affected the outcome of the complaint. Mr Rs represented in her 
complaint by her husband.
What happened
Mrs R took out pet insurance for her dog in March 2010.  The business which arranges and 
administers the policy has told us that from the start of the policy Agria Forsakring has been 
the main insurer.
In 2018 Mrs R complained to the policy administrator that it had continued to renew and take 
premium payments for the policy even though shed rehomed the dog to a new owner in 
2011. She said shed phoned the policy administrator to cancel the policy at the time of the 
rehoming and she hadnt received any policy documents since 2011.
Mrs R said that until 2018 she believed the policy premium payments she continued to pay 
was for her cats insurance. She only realised the policy was for the dog when in 2018 she 
tried to make an insurance claim for the cat and realised she was paying other insurance for 
the cat. She wants the premium payments shed paid from when she transferred her dogs 
ownership in 2011 to be refunded to her.
The policy administrator said it had no record of Mrs R, or her husband, contacting it to 
cancel the policy. It also said it had sent the policy documents each year to the address it 
had on file, which was the address Mrs R gave when she took out the policy. Under the 
policy terms the policy automatically renewed each year unless Mrs R contacted it to cancel. 
The policy administrator cancelled the policy in September 2018 when it received Mrs R 
instructions to do so.
Towards the end of our investigation Mrs R provided new evidence  a statement from the 
new owner who had rehomed the dog with supporting vet records.
Our investigator ultimately thought that the policy administrator should refund some 
premiums to Mrs R as once the dogs ownership had been transferred to the new owner Mrs 
R no longer had an insurable interest and the policy administrator wasnt at risk.
The policy administrator disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said during its 
investigation Mrs R hadnt provided any evidence of transfer of the dog's ownership or that 
hed been insured by his new owner elsewhere. The change of ownership wasnt registered 
DRN-1353918with the Kennel Club. It accepted that on transfer of ownership the insurable interest was no 
longer with Mrs R. But the policy administrator believed strongly that Mrs R was responsible 
for cancelling the policy and it wasnt fair for it to refund the premiums when it hadn't made 
an error.
Before I made my decision I asked the policy administrator to tell us:
who the insurers were for the policy since 2010 and whether it administered the 
policy on those insurers behalf, and
where there was more that one insurer for a policy year what percentage of the 
premium did each insurer receive for each year.
 
The policy administrator told us that one insurer, Agria Forsakring, had underwritten and 
administered the main policy elements since the start of the policy. The third party liability 
element of the policy had been underwritten by two different insurers over the years and the 
third party element of the premium was negligible.
I asked our investigator to tell Agria Forsakring that if the policy premiums did need to be 
refunded it, not the policy administrator, would need to do so apart from the element of the 
premiums for the third party liability for which it wasn't the insurer.
Agria Forsakring wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made the following provisional decision:
'The rules under which we operate say that we can't look at a complaint if it was made more 
than six years after the event complained of, or if later, three years from when the customer 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint.
From July 2015 we need to have consent from the business before being able to consider 
the merits of a complaint that's made out of time. Once a business has consented it wont be 
able to change its mind.
The policy administrator is the complaints handler for Agria Forsakring. It consented to us 
looking into the complaint which means it also consented on Agria Forsakrings behalf. So I 
havent considered whether we could have looked at the complaint if it hadnt consented.
This decision is just about whether Agria Forsakring, the main insurer of the policy, needs to 
refund any policy premiums to Mrs R.
Ive made a separate provisional decision about the policy administrator.
In my provisional decision against the policy administrator Ive explained why Im satisfied 
that it acted fairly in continuing to take the premium payments from Mrs R's bank account for 
the policy. It could reasonably believe that she wanted the policy to continue. In September 
2018 when it knew she didnt want to continue it cancelled the policy and stopped collecting 
the premium.
But I need to consider whether there is enough evidence that Mrs R transferred the 
ownership of her dog, which would mean that she had no insurable interest. If so, I need to 
decide if it's fair and reasonable for Agria Forsakring to refund any of the premiums.Mrs R has provided new evidence that the dog was transferred from her ownership to 
someone else in 2011. The dogs new owner has made a witness statement that the dog 
went to live with him at the end of February 2011. The new owner sent vet notes that 
showed on 14 April 2011 the vet notes for the dog were transferred from Mrs Rs name to 
the new owner. The vet notes also show that in February 2011 Mrs R was looking to rehome 
her dog as unfortunately she was allergic to him.
The vet notes made at the time are strong independent evidence and Im satisfied theres 
sufficient evidence that as from 14 April 2011 Mrs R no longer owned the dog.
The new owner has also provided evidence to show that as from April 2016 the dog was 
insured with another insurer under the new owners name. The new owner believes the dog 
was insured under his name before then but doesnt have any paperwork.
On the transfer of the dogs ownership Mrs R no longer had an insurable interest in the dog 
The policy says that the insurer wont provide cover when Mrs R is no longer the owner of 
her pet. Im satisfied that was the position as from 14 April 2011. Agria Forsakring wasnt at 
risk of a claim by Mrs R under her policy from that date. I note that its policy 
administrator/complaint handler accepts that.
In those circumstances I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Agria Forsakring to 
refund the policy premiums that it received from 14 April 2011 until the date the policy was 
cancelled in September 2018.
The policy administrator says Agria Forsakring shouldnt be financially penalised as Mrs R 
was responsible for cancelling the policy and theres no record she did so before September 
2018. But its not fair for me to say Agria Forsakring can keep the premiums when there was 
no risk of it having a claim against the policy from Mrs R.
However, Im not going to say that Agria Forsakring has to add interest to the premiums it 
refunds as I dont think it or its policy administrator was at fault in collecting the premiums to 
September 2018.
Mrs R should note that Agria Forsakring didnt receive all the policy premiums. Two insurers 
provided the third party liability cover under the policy during the relevant period and they 
received some of the premiums Mrs R paid. Agria Forsakring only has to refund the 
premiums it received from 14 April 2011.
I havent made a decision in relation to the two insures who insured third party liability as the 
policy doesnt show an agency relationship between those two insurers and the policy 
administrator for complaint handling. So I dont think those two insurers have any knowledge 
of the complaint. Mrs R will need to complain to those insurers separately if she wants to try 
to obtain refunds from them.
Mrs R may want to note that the policy administrator has told us the amount paid to the third 
party liability insurers is negligible. It gave the example of in the final period of insurance Mrs 
R paid an annual premium of £1,266.84 (less tax). From that amount the third party insurer 
was paid £6.12.
Ive asked our investigator to provide Mrs R with names of the two third party liability insurers 
so she can take action if she wishes to'.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R had no comment and Agria Forsakring didn't respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R had no comment on, and Agria Forsakring didn't respond to, my provisional 
decision I've no reason to change my mind. For the reasons I've given in my provisional 
findings and these findings I partly uphold this complaint against Agria Forsakring. 
I've detailed below what it must do.
Putting things right
Agria Forsakring must refund the policy premiums that it received from 14 April 2011 until 
the date the policy was cancelled in September 2018. Agria Forsakring doesn't have to add 
interest to the premiums it refunds as I dont think it or its policy administrator was at fault in 
collecting the premiums to September 2018.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint against Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ).
I require Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) to refund to Mrs R the policy premiums it 
received from 14 April 2011 to the date the policy was cancelled in September 2018. No 
interest on the refund is payable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman