DRN-3708978
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card account and credit increases that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2014, Mr P applied for a credit account with Barclaycard. It appears that the initial 
credit limit was £5,300. The credit limit was increased four times to £15,000 in March 
2017. The credit increases were as follows; 10 August 2015 to £6,200, 20 November 
2015 to £10,000, 13 July 2016 to £11,500 and 1 March 2017 to £15,000. The credit limit 
increases to £10,000 and £15,000 were at the request of Mr P. The other increases 
were offered by the business. In late 2017 Mr P entered a debt management 
programme.
In 2021, Mr P complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before doing so and giving him 
credit increases. So, this complaint focuses on the timespan from the initial lending 
decision to the last credit increase in March 2017.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Barclaycard didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 2 September 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not 
to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I set out an extract below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ps complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability as Mr P has not been able to provide 
copies of his bank statements from the times in question. Mr P has provided details of his 
financial position as expressed in his credit file, which has been shared with Barclaycard.
Barclaycard has explained that it carried out a credit check to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer. Barclaycard explained that requested credit increases were 
assessed on Mr Ps management of his account and the data they received monthly from 
credit reference agencies. When offering Mr P credit increases as a result of a campaign, 
Barclaycard told us they performed a credit check to see if Mr Ps account could be 
included in the campaign.
Its possible that Barclaycard failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr P with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Barclaycard 
to think the credit it provided Mr P was unaffordable. I explain why I say that below.
I have noted that Mr Ps declared income was not small. Mr Ps credit file shows that 
during the period of lending in question, Mr Ps credit file is clear of adverse markings  
no missed payments or defaults. And its worth noting that during this same period Mr Ps 
management of his account was also without blemish. And so, on the face of it, there was 
no reason not to lend money to Mr P based on this data.
I have noted that the lending does become large in the first three years. And that could 
have been a signal of financial difficulty such that, in different circumstances, any further 
lending could have been irresponsible. And as we now know there was financial difficulty 
for Mr P at this time. The question is to what extent Barclaycards lending was 
responsible for that. In other words, was the lending irresponsible? In the particular 
details and circumstances of this case, I dont think it was. I explain why I say this below.
I have noted that for the most part a significant proportion of Mr Ps balance at any time 
was either balance transfers or transfers to bank. These enjoyed 0% interest for a given 
time. So, whilst our investigator focused on the increasing balance on the account, I dont 
see the activity on the card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Barclaycard, adding to an already large amount of personal borrowing. Instead, rather 
than the new credit adding to Mr Ps burden of credit, it looks like Mr P was taking steps, 
that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this card and 
using it to secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mr P would 
have been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere. So, it 
doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Barclaycard to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of 
any extra evidence from Mr P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think 
that more thorough affordability checks would have led Barclaycard to think that the 
credit it provided Mr P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr P 
was managing his account or what Barclaycard could see of his management of other 
credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr P to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint.I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 16 September 2022. Neither Barclaycard nor Mr P have 
acknowledged receiving the decision, or made any further submission, or asked for an 
extension to do so. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to make substantive 
further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mr Ps complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman