DRN-2063662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
I can see from the file that there has been quite a lot of confusion around this case. With that 
in mind, I will set out the background in some detail below. 
Mr and Mrs S took their mortgage out with Halifax in 1989. In September 2004, they applied 
for a further advance to that mortgage. The new loan was effectively added to the mortgage 
and so it had the same reference number ending 786. 
At the same time as taking out the further advance, Mr and Mrs S were sold a Total 
Mortgage Protection (TMP) policy. The policy provided life cover for Mrs S only. There was 
also a PPI element, which covered Mr M only. So Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage repayments 
would have been covered for up to 24 months if Mr S became unwell or if he lost his job. The 
policy cost £113.03. 
Two TMP policies appear to have been set up for Mr and Mrs S at around the same time. 
The first (reference ending 745) appears to have run from 2 September 2004 until 
22 September 2004. The second policy (reference ending 773) was in force from 22 
September 2004 until July 2012 when it was cancelled. It appears the mortgage may have 
been repaid in full at that time. 
It is not entirely clear to me why two policies were sold to Mr and Mrs S at roughly the same 
time. However, I note that Halifax upheld a complaint Mr and Mrs S made about the policy 
ending 745 and I understand a refund has already been issued in respect of that policy. That 
means the issues I am considering in this decision are in respect of the cover with reference 
ending 773. 
I can see that when Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax about the cover ending 773, Halifax 
said that it didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. But it did offer to pay back some of the 
commission it received in respect of Mr and Mrs Ss premiums. Our adjudicator thought that 
was a fair outcome to the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S sent a detailed letter in which they objected to what our adjudicator said. I 
wont restate all of their arguments but I want to assure them that I have read everything 
they said at some length. In summary, they said: 
It was not clear why our adjudicator had made repeated reference to 2004 when the 
mortgage started in 1989; 
They were not informed about what the cover included; 
They wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy until Mr Ms employer stopped 
paying him and he would have had sick pay for 12 months; 
Even if Mr S couldnt work, Mrs S would have been able to cover the mortgage as 
she was in secure employment; 
The commission refund should not affect our adjudicators decision about whether 
PPI was mis-sold. 
As Mr and Mrs S are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. Mr and Mrs S have complained about the PPI element of the 
cover only. And so I have not considered the life cover any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S. I have considered their case in detail, but Im afraid I 
dont think PPI was mis-sold. I also think the decision to refund some of the commission 
Mr and Mrs S paid in respect of their PPI premiums is the right outcome in this case. Ill 
explain why below. 
At the outset, I want to make clear that I am considering what happened in 2004. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S original mortgage was taken out in 1989. But the PPI policy thats 
before me was sold on 22 September 2004. So I need to consider circumstances at that time 
 not 1989. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what was 
said during that meeting. To help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what the parties told us about it. And Ive also considered information provided to us by 
Halifax from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether it would have been made clear to Mr and Mrs S 
that the PPI was optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Our 
adjudicator made reference to Mr and Mrs S saying they felt pressured into taking the cover 
out, but she didnt think there was enough evidence to uphold the complaint on that point. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with that view and referred to the commission Halifax would have 
received. They said this was enough incentive for Halifax to make sure it sold them a PPI 
policy.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S said on this point. I cant see that they have 
told us specifically what the Halifax adviser said or did to cause them to feel pressured. In 
the absence of any specific detail, I cant reasonably say that Halifax must have put pressure 
on Mr and Mrs S just because it would have received commission. I accept that Halifax 
probably told Mr and Mrs S that PPI was a good idea and recommended the cover. But I 
dont think thats enough for me to accept they were pressured. 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs S would have known the PPI was separate to their mortgage and 
that they could have refused it if they wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means Halifax had to take steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs.  To help me decide whether the cover was 
suitable, Ive looked at the policys terms and conditions. And Ive also given careful thought 
to what Mr and Mrs S told us about their personal circumstances at the time. I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on this policy, Mr and Mrs S mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months if Mr S became unwell of if he lost 
his job.
In the PPI questionnaire, Mr and Mrs S initially told us that Mr S was entitled to more than 12 
months sick pay. However, this was clarified in the response to our adjudicator as being six 
months full pay followed by a proportion of pay for another six months. The PPI would have 
lasted for up to 24 months for each claim and it follows that it would have covered them for 
considerably longer than Mr Ss sick pay. 
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt have any savings or other insurance to rely on if Mr S was out 
of work. But I can see that they strongly argued that Mrs S would have been able to repay 
the mortgage if Mr S was out of work. Ive taken account of how much Mrs S earned at the 
time (as provided by Halifax from the date of sale) and noted that the mortgage repayments 
alone would have taken up most of Mrs Ss net income. I think Mr and Mrs S may well have 
struggled financially if Mr S was out of work. Even if I am wrong on that point, circumstances 
can change and theres no guarantee that Mrs S would have been able to meet the 
repayments as and when that help was needed. I must stress that this mortgage was 
secured on their property and the consequences if Mr and Mrs S fell behind with their 
repayments could have resulted in them losing their home. 
Mr S appears to have been in good health at the time he took this PPI policy out. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would have 
stopped Mr and Mrs S from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. 
I said above that Mr and Mrs S argued that they wouldnt have been able to benefit from the 
PPI while Mr S was in receipt of sick pay. However, thats not the case. They would have 
been able to make a claim on this policy after 30 days regardless of any sick pay Mr S would 
have received. 
After taking account of all of the things set out above, I think the recommendation Halifax 
made probably was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs S also told us they werent given details about what the PPI covered them for. 
When it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs S, Halifax had to give them enough information about 
the cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. 
I accept it is possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs S everything it should have about the 
cover. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I must also consider 
what they would have done if Halifax told them everything it should have done. Ive set out 
above how I think this policy could have been helpful if Mr S was out of work. With that in 
mind, I dont think more or better information would have caused them to act differently. I 
think theyd still have proceeded with the cover. 
On that basis, I cant say PPI was mis-sold and so Halifax doesnt have to refund all of the 
PPI premiums to Mr and Mrs S. 
I note that Mr and Mrs S said that the commission refund should not have affected what our 
adjudicator said about the mis-sale. For clarity, I think what our adjudicator said may have 
been misinterpreted. I think she did follow the correct procedure in considering whether there 
had been a mis-sale before moving on to look at commission. 
In any event, Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) and it should have told Mr and Mrs S how much it was going to get. It was 
unfair for Halifax not to tell Mr and Mrs S about that. To put that right, Halifax offered to pay 
back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. 
And I think that is the fair outcome in respect of the commission. 
It is clear that Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about their complaint. They told us they couldnt 
understand why the policy that had been sold to them only a few weeks prior was upheld by 
Halifax. I cant speculate as to why that may have been. But in considering the evidence 
before me at some length for this case, I cant say PPI was mis-sold. And I think the 
outcome Halifax offered in respect of commission was right. As I said above, I am sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold their complaint.  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman