DRN-2051687
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
I sent Mr C and HSBC a provisional decision on 1 July 2020, to explain why I thought the 
policy wasnt mis-sold, but that HSBC did need to pay back any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still has a record of the sale because of the time thats passed. But from what 
Ive seen of HSBCs sales process from the time, it wouldve only added the PPI if Mr C 
actively chose it. And here, the PPI was sold two years after Mr C had got his credit card  
so he wouldve known he didnt have to have a policy to get his card. So I think its most 
likely that HSBC made it clear Mr C didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it  so to be fair to Mr C, Ive assumed it did. That 
means HSBC had to check that the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mr C was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
While Mr C had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
offered him much more comprehensive cover. He also had savings, though its not clear 
how much those were worth or how accessible they were. And the PPI wouldve helped 
him effectively protect his savings, so he could use them for things other than paying off 
his credit card. The PPI also meant he wouldnt have to go to such extremes as selling off 
his property just to pay for his card. Mr C did have other insurance, but it was for very 
different things to the PPI, so Im afraid it wasnt relevant here. Lastly, I understand Mr C 
had family who wouldve been happy to help. But there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed. And this policy meant he wouldnt have to ask his family to 
pay his card. Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Mr C in case he was off 
sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
his mind. But as I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr C in case something went 
wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr C could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. And so I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking it out. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
 HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because HSBC didnt tell him, that was 
unfair.
 To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
30 July 2020. But neither Mr C nor HSBC sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
HSBC has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
That means HSBC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr C the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  which means HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pack back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman