DRN-2897951
The complaint
Miss J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The policy was taken out in 2003 in connection with a mortgage. It provided cover for Miss J 
if she couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Miss J didn't agree with 
the adjudicator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Js needs?
- Did Halifax give Miss J the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Miss 
J is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Miss J says Halifax gave her the impression she had to take the policy to get the mortgage 
she wanted, and that she wasn't given a proper choice about buying it. I've noted everything 
Miss J has said. 
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the point of sale, which isnt surprising 
given the amount of time thats passed. In addition, the difficulty I have is that I cant be sure 
what was discussed between Miss J and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful 
that these events happened many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened 
can fade over time. 
Without anything else to support what Miss J has told me, I consider it could've been just as 
likely that Halifax made her aware she had a choice about buying the policy. Overall, I dont 
think I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make Miss J aware that the PPI was 
optional.
Halifax advised Miss J to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Miss J was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Miss J says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Miss Js employer 
benefits. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Miss J could use those benefits 
to pay for other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to her, despite 
her existing arrangements. 
- Miss j says she had a medical condition when she bought the policy, so she might 
not have been able to make a successful disability claim if shed been off work 
because of that condition. But Miss J has also told us that her condition is managed 
with medication, and that she hasnt had to take any time off work in connection with 
it. With that in mind, Im not persuaded that Halifaxs recommendation to take the 
policy was unsuitable. Thats because I think the likelihood of Miss J being off work in 
connection with her medical condition were relatively low.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Miss J before she agreed to buy 
it. But she took out the cover knowing she would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss J 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided. 
Its possible the information the bank gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. Miss J might have been affected by the policys exclusion for pre-existing medical 
conditions. But as Ive already said, I think the likelihood of Miss J needing to make a 
disability claim in connection with her condition was fairly low. So even if the exclusion had 
been pointed out to her, on balance Im not persuaded it wouldve changed her decision to 
buy the policy. 
From what Ive seen, I think its unlikely Miss J would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman