DRN-3608230
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has treated her 
unfairly with the cost of her buildings insurance over a number of years.
What happened
Mrs Bs buildings and contents was insured with Lloyds from 2009 until 2020. When the 
insurance was first taken out it cost £219.32. In 2020 the cost of the insurance had risen to 
£533.33. Mrs B didnt speak with Lloyds about her insurance renewal each year, instead she 
allowed it to automatically renew year on year.
In 2020, Mrs Bs daughter was helping her to review her finances, she was shocked to see 
how much she was paying for her insurance and helped her to look online for an alternative. 
She found a similar policy that met Mrs Bs needs for just over £100 per year. 
Mrs B complained to Lloyds. She felt shed been treated unfairly by it over the years with the 
price it charged for insurance and she asked that it refund what she considered to be the  
overcharged amount.
Lloyds didnt feel it had done anything wrong. It couldnt give any specific details behind this 
as the information is commercially sensitive, but it said things like increases in IPT and 
changes in its approach to risk have had an impact on the price of the policy overtime. 
Overall, it felt the policy had been priced in line with its approach to this and it didnt think it 
needed to do anything else in relations to Mrs Bs complaint.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Bs complaint. He thought something had gone wrong and 
Lloyds needed to do something to put things right. 
He thought it was clear Mrs B wasnt engaging with the cost of her policy for some time and 
he wanted to be satisfied that any price increases made were fair and she wasnt being 
treated differently because of her lack of engagement. He accepted that when the policy was 
first taken out, Lloyds offered a new customer discount and it was fair that it increased the 
price of the policy to recoup this.  He thought it was likely this would have been recouped by 
2013. From 2018, he was satisfied that Lloyds had demonstrated it had treated Mrs B fairly 
with how the premium was calculated.
To put things right, he asked that Lloyds refund the difference between the price paid in 
2013 (£404.79) and the price paid each year from then until 2017. He said inflation could be 
added to this amount in line with the consumer price index.
Mrs B accepted the outcome. Lloyds hasnt confirmed if it agrees with the outcome and 
because weve not had a response on this, the case has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this complaint, Ive decided to uphold it, for much the same reasons as 
our investigator.
With complaints about insurance pricing, it is not the role of this service to say what price 
should have been charged. To do so would be price setting and outside of our remit. But we 
can look to see whether customers have been treated fairly with how the cost of their policy 
has been set. And where we think someone has been treated differently or unfairly, set out 
what we feel is reasonable to put right this unfairness.
It isnt disputed the Mrs B didnt engage with Lloyds about the cost of her insurance when 
she was insured with it. She isnt someone who regularly shopped around and it wasnt until 
her daughter prompted her to do so that she did. Her daughter assisted her with looking 
online for another provider and Mrs B realised she could find insurance that meets her needs 
for significantly less than she was paying before.  
When a consumer isnt engaging on the cost of their insurance, either through vulnerability 
or something else that stops them from doing this, wed say they are inert. And when looking 
at complaints brought by inert consumers, we expect to see that theyve not been treated 
differently as a result. 
When Mrs B first took out her policy, it benefited from a new customer discount and Lloyds 
recouped this overtime. This is something that was common with insurance previously and 
as Mrs B had the benefit of the reduced premium when the policy was first taken out, it is fair 
that Lloyds increase the premium to recoup the discount applied. This is something that 
would generally happen with all of its policies and Mrs B wasnt treated differently because of 
her lack of engagement.
By 2013 when the new business discount had been recouped, Mrs B had been insured with 
Lloyds for 5 years with the 2013 renewal being her fourth renewal invite. With no 
engagement on her renewals at any point before this, I think it would be fair to say she was 
inert and Lloyds would have been aware of this with her lack of engagement at renewal. 
The cost of Mrs Bs policy continued to increase after the new business discount was 
recouped. Lloyds explained that part of the reason for this increase was because of changes 
in the Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). Between 2015 and 2017 IPT did see some significant 
increases seeing this rise from 6% to 12%. And I think its fair to say this would have had 
some impact on the cost of Mrs Bs policy. But I dont think it would be reasonable to say this 
is fair justification for all the price increases on Mrs Bs policy. Between 2014 and 2015 
alone, the price increased by over 20% with a yearly increase of nearly £100. With Mrs Bs 
renewal period being at the start of the year, and the first changes in IPT not taking place 
until October/November 2015, it is clear this wasnt a factor in the price change for this year. 
From 2018 onwards Lloyds can demonstrate that it was treating Mrs B fairly. At this point it 
introduced a new pricing model  the details of this cannot be shared as they are 
commercially sensitive to Lloyds operating model  but it has shown this service that 
Mrs Bs premium was calculated in the same way that all Lloyds customers premiums were 
from this point. So her lack of engagement had no bearing on the price, nor was it indicated 
that she was treated differently as a result. 
But Lloyds hasnt been able to demonstrate why Mrs Bs price changed as it did from 2013 
through until 2017. In the absence of this, Im not persuaded she wasnt treated differently 
because of her lack of engagement. And I think she lost out as a result as she wasnt treated 
fairly. 
As Ive said previously, it isnt the role of this service to set the price of insurance. But when we think someone has been treated unfairly, well set out what we think is fair to put right this 
unfairness.
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds refund the difference in what Mrs B paid for 
insurance from 2013 onwards until 2017 (the 2018 price was not included because of the 
new model in place at this point). He said that it would be fair to allow the 2013 price to be 
increased with inflation. And Lloyds should add 8% simple interest on this amount.
I think this represents a fair and reasonable way to put right the unfairness of Mrs B being 
treated differently. Inflation should take account of all factors impacting the price. So Id 
expect the application of this will also reflect the increases in IPT, as I think it would be fair to 
allow for the policy to increase with the changes in these costs. And based on what has 
been shared with this service about Lloyds model from 2018 onwards, I dont think Lloyds 
needs to do anything else beyond the refund set out above. 
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Ltd need to do the following to put things right.
Take the 2013 price for Mrs Bs insurance (£404.79) and refund anything paid in 
excess of this until and including 2017. It can allow for this price to increase yearly 
with inflation, taking account of changes to IPT.
It should pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid above. If it feels necessary to do 
so, it may deduct tax at the standard rate from this payment and provide Mrs B (upon 
request) with a statement to confirm the tax deducted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman