DRN-4438438
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled their home 
insurance claim.
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Aviva accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, any reference in my decision to Aviva should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
Mrs O has brought this complaint with her husband, Mr O. Ill mainly refer to Mrs O in my 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs O and Aviva and has taken 
place over a number of years. In my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for 
reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs O had a home insurance policy with Aviva. In late 2020 she had an escape of water at 
her property following renovation works that had taken place. Mrs O contacted the company 
that had carried out the renovation works, but she says they refused to put things right. She 
then arranged for another company to visit the property and various remedial works took 
place. 
Aviva told her that the replacement pipework cost wouldnt be covered under her policy, but 
damage resulting from the escape of water might be. Aviva say they didnt hear back from 
Mrs O and closed the query. Mrs O then got back in touch with Aviva some months later to 
formally make a claim against her insurance policy for the damage to her property. 
Unhappy with how the claim progressed, Mrs O made a number of complaints to Aviva. She 
complained in May and June 2021 about the time Aviva had taken to look into the claim and 
the cash settlement offered. Mrs O provided a new scope of works. Aviva issued their 
response and agreed to review Mrs O scope of works. Mrs O was offered a total of £250 
compensation for these complaints. Mrs O first asked us to look into the above complaints in 
January 2022 and let us know she was awaiting further information.
The next record of contact with our Service was in January 2023. Mrs O let us know about 
further issues shed experienced  particularly around the contents part of the claim. Shed 
received a further final response from Aviva in relation to the service shed received and her 
non-receipt of a £4,000 payment. In their final response, Aviva reiterated the earlier offer of 
£250 and offered an additional £50 in vouchers. 
Our Investigator considered Mrs Os complaints and she didnt recommend that they be 
upheld. She didnt recommend that Aviva needed to do anything further to put things right. 
As Mrs O didnt accept, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of my decision covers the actions of Aviva from November 2020 (when Aviva 
were first put on notice about a potential claim) until the final response letter referenced 
above (15 July 2022). Its my understanding that some elements of this claim may have 
continued after that. Should Mrs O be dissatisfied with any new elements or Avivas actions 
since 15 July 2022  for example an email dated 20 September 2022 regarding damage 
allegedly caused by a non-Aviva network builder, shed need to first raise these issues with 
Aviva as a complaint before our Service can consider them. This is because our Service 
cant leave a complaint open ended or continually allow the addition of new complaint points 
- out of fairness to both parties and because it would impede our efficient operation.
This is a complex claim (and complaint) where events have taken place over a protracted 
period of time. Id remind both parties in this complaint that our Services role is that of an 
alternative, informal dispute resolution service. 
This means that although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses 
those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. For 
example, both parties are already aware that these events have been going on for an 
extensive amount of time  almost three years, and Ive only summarised the key points of 
the background earlier in my decision. 
The settlement of Mrs Os claim  buildings 
Having carefully considered the relevant key evidence here  Avivas scope of works and the 
third party quotes that Mrs O obtained for the outstanding works, on balance, Im satisfied 
that Aviva have acted fairly when offering to settle this part of the buildings claim.
As our Investigator has stated already, generally the cost of works to an insurer will be less 
than the quotes available to consumers (such as Mrs O) on the open market  due to 
economies of scale and special arrangements between insurers and their network of repair 
agents. 
The quote Mrs O obtained was far in excess (£100,000 more) than Avivas cash settlement 
offer, with very little actual detail to support that the scope of works was strictly limited to the 
damage that occurred as a result of the loss event being claimed for here. So, as things 
stand  based on the available evidence, I dont find that Aviva acted unfairly when trying to 
resolve this part of the claim and fairly gave Mrs O the opportunity to challenge their offer 
with supporting evidence. 
Contents 
Ive then considered the contents claim. Aviva raised, in my opinion, reasonable concerns 
about why they werent made fully aware initially of the extent of the contents damage. They 
argued that Mrs O prejudiced the claim by not suitably storing some of the items following 
the escape of water and some of the damage may have occurred whilst some of the items 
were being moved. This, coupled with the delay in notifying Aviva of the damage, meant they 
didnt have the opportunity to potentially remedy some of the damaged items sooner. Whilst I dont find Avivas concerns unreasonable, Ive weighed this up against Mrs Os 
argument that her primary concern (initially) was to have her home returned to a liveable 
condition. This is perfectly understandable. 
However, when Ive considered Avivas report into the damaged contents and their offer to 
restore some of the items and conduct specialist testing (PAT) on others, I find that theyve 
acted reasonably. Mrs O was unwilling to allow Aviva to attempt to restore some of the items 
or conduct further testing on others. She said:
Furthermore, I will not accept any of your restoration offers nor your PAT testing. All 
of the flood damaged items are not suitable for including into our furnishings due to 
be submerged in grey water, the electrical items have been stored outside for over a 
year, whilst waiting for yourselves to agree works.
I note what Mrs O has said about how the items were stored, but this meant it was more 
difficult for Aviva to determine what damage had resulted from the loss event and what had 
occurred afterwards.
However, Ive found some failings in relation to how this part of the claim was dealt with. I 
think Aviva couldve been more proactive at the outset of this claim when enquiring about 
any damage to contents. Similarly, I cant see that any enquiries were made by Aviva about 
arranging storage for the damaged contents, for example when Mrs O queried this in an 
email dated 8 June 2022. 
But when Ive weighed up the failings against the overall actions of Aviva when responding 
to this claim, the offer to restore some items or further inspect others as well as waive an 
overpayment, I find their total offer for this part of the claim to be broadly fair and reasonable.
The payment for £4,000
A payment was made by Aviva to an account belonging to Mrs O which had closed. they 
said:
Please note that no further monies can be released to any part on the claim until we 
understand the status of the alleged closed bank account, as this has not been 
returned to our accounts team which would indicate this may still be active.
I find Aviva have acted as Id have expected them to when chasing this up internally and 
then making Mrs O aware that it hadnt been returned to their account - as can often happen 
when a payment is auto rejected by the receiving bank. 
The alternative accommodation and fuel costs
As part of their claim verification process, Aviva requested reasonable proof of alternative 
accommodation and transport costs. This wasnt unusual and I find they treated Mrs O fairly 
in this regard and when questioning some of the receipts provided.
The overall service provided
Its clear that this claim didnt progress as smoothly as either party wouldve liked and has 
gone on for a long period of time. A certain amount of inconvenience and uncertainty will 
generally arise when making a claim of this nature and although Ive kept in mind Mrs Os 
personal circumstances, Ive not found sufficient supporting evidence to fairly conclude that 
Aviva need to do anything further here in relation to the service theyve provided.My decision will disappoint Mrs O, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve her dispute with Aviva.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman