DRN-1447750
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr H took out an PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover with his existing mortgage 
in 2003. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. He took this policy out as part of a 
package called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which offered accident, sickness, 
unemployment, critical illness and life cover. 
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover, as thats what Mr H has 
complained about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr H and Halifax. During that meeting Halifax 
shouldve made Mr H aware he had a choice in buying the policy. Mr H say it wasnt made 
clear the PPI was optional. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr H have much paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I must decide what I think is likely to have happened, given 
the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Ive seen a copy of screenshots from Halifaxs system records that were completed at the 
time. These show Mr H was asked a series of questions checking whether he was eligible 
for the policy and also recorded his answers. I think this suggests that a discussion took 
place between Mr H and Halifax about mortgage PPI. And based on what I know about how 
Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been 
made clear.  
So overall, I think its more likely Halifax made it clear to Mr H he had a choice about the 
PPI, and he agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended the policy to Mr H. So, it had to check it was right for him. Looking at 
Mr Hs circumstances, seem to have had a need for the cover. And he wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. Mr H says he would not have received sick pay benefits from his employer. The policy would 
have covered Mr Hs mortgage repayments if he was too unwell to work for up to 24 months. 
And wouldve also covered him if he was made redundant for the same period. It doesnt 
look like Mr H had any other means  such as savings  that he could have relied upon if he 
lost his job. So, it seems he had a need for the policy. Ive noted Mr Hs comments about the 
fact he would have had to wait 30 days for the policy benefits to kick in, but this is common 
for all types of insurance and the deferment period wasnt excessive. It would not have had a 
detrimental effect on Mr Hs mortgage account had he needed to use the policy at all. 
Mr H was borrowing funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on his home. So, I think having the security that his mortgage repayments would be 
made if Mr H was unable to work would have been important to him.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Halifax gave 
Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr H chose to take out the PPI 
- so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it 
looks like the policy would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for him and I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont think Mr H has lost out by anything Halifax might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman