DRN-1779107
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G held a landlord policy with UKI for a number of years. This renewed in September 
2019. Towards the end of 2019, Mr G became aware his property was occupied by multiple 
tenants, making it a house of multiple occupancy (HMO). Upon learning of this Mr G had the 
occupants evicted.
In December 2019, Mr G contacted UKI to make a claim related to damage to his roof. It 
sent its own agents out to assess the damage and it estimated the repairs to be in the region 
of £3,000. Shortly after Mr G contacted UKI to say hed had repairs completed to the cost of 
around £400 and withdrew his claim.
On 22 January 2020 UKI wrote to Mr G to say it would be cancelling his policy given the 
number of claims, losses and incidents (alongside various other incidents hed reported but 
not claimed for) across the life of his insurance, It said it was doing this in line with the 
general conditions of the policy, and the policy would be cancelled within seven days.
Mr G said he was distressed receiving this letter and took the following day off sick from 
work to find another policy. Mr G also objected to UKI saying hed made multiple claims as 
hed only had one successful claim under the policy.
On 27 January 2020 UKI wrote to Mr G again, saying his policy was now cancelled following 
a conversation between parties. And it clarified that only one claim had been proceeded 
with, but three others had been noted as losses to Mr G. As a result this didnt meet with its 
underwriting criteria so it had cancelled the policy.
Mr G complained and UKI responded with its final response on 6 February 2020. It said UKI 
is a small to medium risk insurer, and that its underwriting team continuously evaluates risk 
to ensure properties on cover, can remain. It said Mr G had been correct to keep it aware of 
changes within the property, and its underwriting team imposed the cancellation due to the 
losses that had taken place, not Mr G making it aware of them. 
And UKI said regardless of whether it has paid towards claims, his property had suffered 
frequent losses and therefore was deemed as a greater risk. Mr G brought his complaint to 
our service and our investigator requested information from UKI. 
UKI said its policy allows for a seven day cancellation period which was made clear in its 
policy booklet. It also says the policy allows for re-assessment immediately or at the next 
renewal. UKI also said the person living at Mr Gs home didnt have a tenancy agreement, it 
doesnt insure HMOs, and It didnt believe the property was watertight, based on the 
observations of its LA and because there had been claims for escape of water.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said UKI was able to cancel the policy 
under the terms of the insurance but shed gone on to consider whether it had done so fairly. 
The investigator said UKI had initially said the reason for cancellation was number of 
reported incidents and claims, but subsequently it had said there were other reasons.
The investigator said UKIs underwriters had accepted Mr G had never intended to use the 
property as a HMO, and saw he had evicted the tenants when he discovered this. So it didnt 
seem this was the reason for cancellation. She also saw the underwriters had considered 
tenancy agreements and appeared to accept all relevant agreements were in place  so this 
didnt appear a valid reason either.
UKI had also mentioned the condition of the property, but it had renewed the policy after the 
previous incident. So she disagreed that it was fair for UKI to say Mr G hadnt met his policy 
assumptions when it had previously accepted he met them by re-insuring him at renewal. 
UKI had also said it had estimated the necessary roof works to be much higher than Mr G 
paid. The investigator said it wasnt fair to rely on the difference in cost alone to assume 
these works werent completed to a good standard. And she said if UKI wanted to fairly rely 
on this shed have expected it to send an agent to review the completed works and confirm.
The investigator concluded Mr Gs policy had been unfairly cancelled, so UKI should remove 
any records of the policy being cancelled on internal or external records. She also said UKI 
should award him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr G agreed, and said he felt UKI had taken too long regarding his roof works which is why 
he arranged for the work to be done himself. He also said it was provided with a full 
guarantee and invoice, as well as obtaining two quotes to begin with.
UKI responded to say there had been no mistake in cancelling the policy and it didnt agree 
compensation should be awarded. It said its underwriters agreed that there were no 
concerns around fraud or voiding the policy in relation to the HMO, and the same applied to 
the lack of a tenancy agreements. But it said these situations would be valid grounds to 
cancel the policy on its own as it would never cover this type of situation. 
UKI also said its LA confirmed the property wasnt secure and water tight, as there was still 
water damage coming into the main adjoining wall, and coming in through the roof. And it 
said this combined with the damage noted from December 2019 (including damage across 
the home, and an unknown cause escape of water) was enough to say the policy 
assumptions of keeping the home in a good state of repair wasnt met. So it had reassessed 
the policy and cancelled it at that time.
As UKI disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons given by our 
investigator previously. Ill explain why.
UKI has said it cancelled this policy in line with its terms and conditions. So Ive looked 
carefully at the policy book, and under the general conditions, the policy says:
We may cancel the Policy by sending seven days written notice to You at Your last-known 
address. We will refund any Premium paid for the remaining Period of Insurance, as long as 
You have not made any claim up to the date of cancellation.This condition isnt limited to certain scenarios, but across the policy it does mention 
examples, such as non-payment of premiums, where it may apply it.
In this case, theres no dispute that UKI did give Mr G seven days notice when cancelling 
the policy. So it seems it has cancelled the insurance in line with the policy terms. However, 
Ive gone on to consider whether UKI has applied this term fairly, as I wouldnt expect an 
insurer to cancel a policy without fair cause to do so  particularly given the potential 
consequences of having to declare this to future insurers.
UKI has directed us to a section entitled Changes to Your cover, which says:
You must tell Us immediately if there are any changes that may affect Your insurance, such 
as the following:
i) If You change the address where Your property is located
ii) If Your Sums insured change
We may then reassess Your cover and Premium either immediately or at Your next renewal, 
depending on the information You have provided.
From this it appears UKI can reassess the cover mid-term. UKI has now said it hasnt 
cancelled the policy due to either HMO issues or concerns about tenancy agreements. For 
this reason I wont discuss these matters any further. UKI has instead said its concerns lay 
with the condition and maintenance of the property. 
Im not persuaded the condition of the property in this case was a fair reason to reassess the 
cover and cancel it as it has done. I say this as Id only expect UKI to reassess and cancel 
the policy for a reason that was fundamental to the policy, such as the examples listed 
above, or in situations such as fraud or non-payment of premiums. And Im not persuaded 
the condition of Mr Gs home amounted to a situation that would allow it to fairly reassess 
and cancel the policy as it did.
But even if I did agree this was a fair reason to cancel this policy, Im still not persuaded UKI 
has done enough to justify taking these steps. Ill explain why. 
UKI has said an initial report produced in December 2019 showed there was damage across 
the home (including an escape of water) which Mr G has not agreed to have repaired. And 
following this Mr G raised a second claim related to the roof, and had the works completed 
for considerably less than it had estimated given the scope of works.
Mr G has provided two invoices for the works hes had completed (including electrical and 
roof repair works). So Im under no doubt Mr G has had some works completed.
UKI has said these works wouldnt meet the requirements of the works its own contractors 
had proposed. But from what I can see UKI never carried out any enquiries with Mr G about 
the scope of these works nor sought any evidence from him after they were completed to 
support this. UKI also hasnt provided our service with its report that outlined what it 
considered to be necessary works to the roof, so I cant say for certain whether or not the 
works Mr G arranged wouldve met this or not.
I would also add that UKI has been consistently unclear to Mr G about the reasons it was 
cancelling his policy. And had it chosen to discuss its concerns about the repairs with him, it 
seems to me hed have had an opportunity to provide whatever evidence he had. However, in the circumstances of this particular case Im not persuaded UKI acted fairly by 
cancelling Mr Gs policy. I can see this decision wasnt made lightly by UKI, but I simply 
disagree it was the right thing to do for the reasons Ive given.
And as Ive said, even if I agreed with UKI reassessing the cover mid-term, Id have 
expected it to take further steps than it did to confirm the condition of the property before 
making this decision. Or instead chosen to not renew Mr Gs policy at its next renewal 
period. It follows that Im directing UKI to remove any record to show it cancelled the policy 
for any internal or external records.
Ive gone on to consider whether UKI should award Mr G compensation. While it seems hes 
suffered no financial loss, I can see how being given multiple reasons for cancellation was 
frustrating for him. So I agree with our investigator that UKI should pay Mr G £150.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must:
amend any internal or external records to reflect the policy wasnt cancelled by UKI; 
and
pay Mr G £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman