DRN-1399636
 
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her a fee 
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Mrs T says that she did not need all of 
the benefits that the account came with and therefore this account did not prove value for 
money.
Background 
Prior to this complaint being brought to this service Halifax as a gesture of goodwill refunded 
some account fees.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didn't uphold the complaint due to this 
they did not recommend Halifax had to do anything more than what it had already done. Mrs 
T disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about Mrs Ts complaint. 
I know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mrs T, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion. 
Mrs T has not said anything to suggest that she was not given a fair choice in taking out this 
account. Rather, the reasons that she feels that this account was mis-sold were that she 
could not use all the benefits that the account came with and that over the years the account 
has not proven to be value for money.
When this account was sold to Mrs T I am satisfied that no personal recommendation was 
made. This means that Halifax did not have to ensure that the account was right for Mrs T, 
rather it had to provide her with enough information to allow her to do this herself
Mrs T says that she could not use all the benefits that the account came. But I am satisfied 
that she would have been told about the major benefits that the account came with, after all 
Halifax would want to try and make the account sound as attractive as possible. Therefore it 
was up to Mrs T to decide whether she wanted to agree to the account, given that she could 
only use some of the benefits. Given that she went on to make a claim on the the mobile 
phone insurance and the travel insurance I can only conclude this is why she agreed to the 
account.I accept that Mrs T may not have been told everything about all of the benefits, but I can't 
see anything specific that Mrs T was not told that I think would've altered her decision to take 
out the account.
I can see that with the benefit of hindsight Mrs T may not feel that this account ended up 
being value for money. But this is the nature of insurance in general and just because she 
does not feel that she claimed enough to offset the cost of the account does not mean that 
Halifax mis-sold her the account or should refund her the account fees that she paid.
Ultimately while I understand that Mrs T will not be happy with the outcome of this complaint, 
I am unable to ask Halifax to refund her account fees. I can only do that if I find that Halifax 
had done something wrong, and for the reasons set out above I don't think that happened or 
her URCA was mis-sold. Due to this I am unable to ask it to do any more than it has already 
done.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman