DRN-3274731
The complaint
Mr E complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited didnt make him aware hed be charged for 
arrears accrued when he voluntary terminated his agreement with them.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr E was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The agreement was for £18,839, with 48 monthly payments of £276, and a final 
payment of £5,581.  At the time the car was three years old and had done 50,995 miles.
Mr E said that he contacted MotoNovo in March 2020 as his household income had been 
affected by the Covid 19 pandemic. He said he called to ask about voluntary termination of 
the agreement.
He said that in that call MotoNovo offered him a three-month payment deferral. He said he 
accepted this option, but only after MotoNovo confirmed that it wouldnt affect his right to 
return the car and voluntary terminate the agreement.
He said he contacted MotoNovo after the three-month deferral to arrange the return of the 
car. He said it was at this point that he was told that he would have to pay the three months 
arrears, in full.
He said this hadnt been explained to him when hed been offered the payment deferral. He 
said if it had he wouldnt have taken the payment deferral and wouldve returned the car and 
terminated the agreement in March 2020.
He was also unhappy that MotoNovo told him he had to pay the £1,500 damages charges 
and the £1,000 arrears in full or they would hand this over to a debt collection agency. He 
said they told him a payment plan wasnt possible.
MotoNovo said Mr E had contacted them about the change in his financial circumstances 
due to the Covid 19 pandemic in March 2020 and May 2020. They said theyd moved his 
payment date back to the end of April 2020 to give him time to think about his options. They 
said they also told him about his right to voluntary terminate the agreement.
They said they agreed a three-month payment deferral in May 2020. They did this after the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued guidance for the industry 
on financial difficulties arising from the Covid 19 pandemic.
MotoNovo said theyd charged him in line with his agreement. This was for the arrears on his 
account of £1,386, £390 for damage and a missing service book, and an excess mileage 
charge of £757. But they upheld his complaint and paid him £75 compensation because one 
of their agents hadnt recorded the notes of a telephone call on their system.
Mr E was unhappy with MotoNovos response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator felt that MotoNovo had explained to Mr E that a payment deferral wouldnt 
affect his ability to voluntary terminate the agreement. And she said that the correspondence 
MotoNovo sent about the payment deferral confirmed that payments werent cancelled. So 
she thought it was reasonable for MotoNovo to charge him for the arrears. 
Because Mr E didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr E was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
Mr E said that he wouldnt have taken the payment deferral option if hed known he would be 
liable for the arrears.
Ive listened to the calls in March 2020. Mr E explained the impact on his outcome arising 
from the Covid-19 pandemic, and asked MotoNovo what help they could provide. They 
offered to move the payment back from 1 April 2020 to 30 April 2020 in order to give him 
breathing space to consider his options. In this call they made clear that payments were still 
due. Mr E accepted this offer.
In this call MotoNovo also explained the right to terminate to Mr E. He understood, but was 
happy to accept the breathing space that had been created by moving the payment date. He 
said this would give him time to consider his options.
Its disappointing that MotoNovo are not able to provide me with a recording of the telephone 
call on 7 May 2020 when the payment deferral was offered and accepted.
Ive seen a copy of the correspondence sent to Mr E that followed from this call. This makes 
clear that payments were still due. It includes the following statement: 
Its important to make it clear that this deferral (also known as a concession) is a 
temporary pause in your repayments and does not change or vary your Agreement in 
any way, so your next three monthly repayments have been put on hold, not 
cancelled.
They also say that arrangements will be made to help Mr E repay the deferred payments, 
including increasing the monthly payments or by immediate payment. It makes clear that he 
must catch up your deferred payments over the rest of your agreement.
I can see from MotoNovos records that a text message was sent to Mr E on 18 July 2020 
advising him that his deferral was coming to an end, and that hed need to think about how 
hed make up the deferred payments.And this matches what the agreement says. Like all agreements of this type, this agreement 
has a termination clause that sets out his right to terminate. This is a right granted under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, and allows him to return the car with his liability capped at 50% 
of the total amount payable. As he had paid this amount, he could return the car, but he was 
still liable for any overdue instalments.
Term 7.1.3 of the agreement reaffirms this  it deals with his right to end the agreement and 
says he must pay all arrears and other sums payable under the agreement. 
The deferral was granted following the issue of the guidance by FCA. The purpose of the 
guidance was to allow customers temporary relief where there was a reduction in household 
income that wouldve been used to make the payments due under the agreement. Firms like 
MotoNovo were expected to inform customers like Mr E of the consequences of a payment 
deferral, including the effect on the balance due under the agreement and future payments.
MotoNovo did this, in the correspondence Ive referred to above. 
Im satisfied that MotoNovo gave Mr E sufficient information that the arrears were due. I note 
that Mr E says hes not challenging the amounts due, only that he wasnt made fully aware 
that the payments were still due. And if he had been, he wouldnt have taken the payment 
holiday and would have returned the car and voluntary terminated the agreement straight 
away.
Im satisfied that MotoNovo accurately answered his questions in his calls  that the deferral 
wouldnt prevent him from voluntary terminating the agreement. And even though I dont 
know what was said in the call on 7 May 2020, they provided him with sufficient information 
immediately afterwards that should have made him aware that the payments were due at the 
end of the deferral period. 
It was never the intention that Mr E would have three months free use of the car  whether 
or not he actually used it.
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to invoice Mr E for the arrears on the 
account. I also think its reasonable to charge him for the damages theyve shown to be in 
breach of the allowed damages. Id expect MotoNovo to consider his current financial 
situation and treat him with appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable 
payment plan to clear the arrears. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman