DRN-2709773
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim for storm damage on 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W said a number of roof tiles had become dislodged following a storm. They 
only realised when they went into the loft a few weeks later. They tried to send some photos 
to Covea and it sent a surveyor to have a look. Mr and Mrs W said the surveyor only took 
photos from the outside of their property for a few minutes before leaving. And he had to 
charge his camera before he could use it, which Mr and Mrs W found unprofessional.
Mr and Mrs W said they have to chase Covea to find out what his report said. And they 
discovered the damage had been put down to wear and tear  not storm damage. Mr and 
Mrs W thought that was unusual as a number of other houses in the neighbourhood were 
also getting their roofs repaired at the same time. So they sent a report from their own 
builder who thought the damage had been caused by the storm. And theyd like Covea to 
reconsider the damage to their roof as storm damage.
Covea said for it to be able to consider a claim for storm damage, the damage needed to 
have been caused by a one-off storm event. But the photographs showed the damage had 
clearly occurred gradually over time. And the poor weather had highlighted the problem 
rather than caused the damage.
Covea said thered been a natural breakdown of materials. And the home insurance policy 
didnt cover for any loss or damage caused by wear and tear or anything that happens 
slowly over time. After reviewing the builders report Covea said itd made the right decision 
to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with Coveas response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the weather reports for the area at the 
time Mr and Mrs W felt the damage had occurred. Although the recorded winds werent 
particularly strong there was evidence of intense rainfall during that afternoon, as well as the 
preceding and following days. 
So our investigator thought it was reasonable to say a wet storm had taken place. But she 
didnt think roof tiles would normally be dislodged in the absence of violent winds. The bad 
weather had merely highlighted existing issues. And unfortunately she didnt think water 
coming into Mr and Mrs Ws house could be considered as accidental damage under their 
home insurance policy. So she wouldnt be asking Covea to take any action.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. Theyd made it clear the damage could be seen from the inside. 
So they expected the surveyor to do an internal check as well.  But hed declined as he 
didnt have a mask. 
And the number of other local properties having roof repairs suggested it wasnt caused by 
wear and tear. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, there are three main issues to consider in relation to claims for 
storm damage. The first thing I look at in this type of complaint is whether or not there was a 
storm at the relevant time. This is important because if there was no storm there cant have 
been any damage caused by a storm. 
Ive looked at the weather data for the date in question. The winds didnt reach the level we 
would consider a storm. But there was considerable strong rainfall over the period. 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy doesnt define storm damage. But our service would normally 
describe a storm as violent winds, often with rain, hail or snow.  
The second and third questions I look at if Im satisfied theres been a storm is whether the 
damage to Xs property is consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause. And whether the 
storm is the main cause of the damage suffered. But these were not satisfied here.
The loss adjusters report shows a number of tiles thatve slipped out of position or are 
missing. Some of the tiles are partially damaged or appear to be breaking apart. And the 
loss adjuster felt the damage was due to the tiles gradually breaking down over a period of 
time. 
The report by Mr and Mr Ws roofing expert said the torching or lime mortar underneath the 
tiles had been dislodged. And thatd contributed to shortening the life of the old roof. He 
could see the tiles were dipping in a number of areas.
Id expect a well-maintained roof to be able to withstand periods of heavy rain  especially in 
the absence of particularly strong winds. So although I dont discount the knowledge and 
experience of Mr and Mrs Ws roofer I think Covea is entitled to rely on the opinion of its own 
expert when considering the claim. 
Roofs are designed to stop rain from entering a property. And it appears more likely the 
heavy rainfall highlighted the roofs worsening state rather than being responsible for the 
damage. 
I know Mr and Mrs W noted other houses in the area were also having roof repairs after the 
poor weather. So they dont feel wear and tear was the likely cause. But its not possible to 
tell whether any other roofs in the area were damaged by an insured peril or whether the 
heavy rain had also highlighted their declining state and age.
Covea couldnt find evidence of damage consistent with an insured peril.  It considered all of 
the available information. And although its inspector didnt enter the property it was able to 
look at the photos provided by Mr and Mrs W as part of the overall assessment. And I think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Based on everything Ive seen I cant say Covea has acted unfairly in declining the claim. It 
acted within the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws home insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman