DRN-3645044
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the 
loss it suffered as a result of an investment scam.
Rs complaint is brought by its director  Mr S. For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr S 
where I mean R. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Between May and November 2014, Mr S 
made a series of payments from Rs savings account with HSBC. At the time he believed the 
payments were to fund investments on Rs behalf. The payments were all international and 
went to accounts held with a different part of HSBCs banking group which was based 
outside the UK. 
Mr S later learned that hed been the victim of a scam and complained. Part of his complaint 
was that HSBC had failed to do due diligence on the accounts that received his funds. HSBC 
responded to the complaint but didnt offer any redress. Mr S referred the matter to our 
service and was informed that the actions of separate parts of HSBC that werent in the UK 
were outside of our jurisdiction. 
More recently Mr S again sought redress from HSBC. A further complaint response was 
issued in 2021 and again maintained that no redress was due. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr S disagreed and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
I informally shared my thoughts with Mr S in an email, part of this said:
There is some discrepancy in the evidence Ive been provided with. Youve told me that 
each payment was made in branch. The evidence from HSBC suggests that the payments 
were made via internet banking. I dont think this makes a material difference. As 
irrespective of the payment channel (online or in branch), I dont think HSBC were wrong to 
process the payments you instructed. 
It wouldnt be fair to retrospectively apply the higher expectations that exist today to the 
actions of a bank when processing payments in 2014. And whilst there are longstanding 
obligations on banks to be alert to instances of fraud or scams and to act in their customers 
best interests, I dont think the payment instructions would have indicated that you might be 
at risk where I would have expected HSBC to have done more before following your 
instructions. 
The account that the payments were made from was a savings account. And it isnt unusual 
for people to make fewer, larger withdrawals or transfers from time to time from such 
accounts. I also note that the payments were spread out over a number of months. And 
there were also payments of broadly similar amounts that dont form part of this complaint 
and I therefore assume to have been genuine. 
Even if Im wrong on this point and HSBC ought to have intervened HSBC would only 
really have been expected to have asked you if you had done your own research and were 
sure you wanted to make the payments. Ive seen the documentation youve provided which 
doesnt appear to be obviously fake. Your own submissions support that you fell victim to an 
elaborate and sophisticated scam. So I dont think this is something that a reasonable level 
of intervention from HSBC at the time could have uncovered.
Im also satisfied that HSBC did what Id expect when later notified that the payments were 
made as the result of a scam. And they cant fairly be blamed for there being no funds 
available to return. 
One of the more recent initiatives in response to the increasing amount of fraud and scams 
is the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which was introduced by the Lending 
Standards Board. But this specifically sets out that it doesnt apply to payments made before 
its introduction (in May 2019). It also doesnt apply to international transfers. So I cant use 
the CRM as a basis to require HSBC to do more.
Mr S responded with some further evidence and comments. In response to this I issued a 
jurisdiction decision setting out the extent to which Im able to consider this complaint. So I 
can now go ahead and decide the merits of what our jurisdiction allows me to.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since informally sharing my initial thoughts on this complaint with Mr S, he has provided 
further evidence which supports that the payments were instructed in branch. This is in the 
form of a Priority Payment Customer Authority Form. I find this further evidence persuasive 
and accept that the payments were most likely instructed in branch as Mr S asserts. 
However, as Ive explained above, this doesnt change my mind as to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
The key issue here is that even if I were to accept Mr S allegation that HSBC were negligent 
and that they failed to intervene in his payments when they reasonably ought to have done, 
in the circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded this would have made a difference. 
And because I dont think it would have made a difference, I cant say that any failing that 
HSBC might have been responsible for in this way has caused Rs loss. 
I say this because I dont think any intervention, that could reasonably have been expected 
in 2014, would have impacted on whether he would have proceeded with the payments. 
Mr S has described how hed previously successfully made a broadly similar investment to 
the one that turned out to be a scam. The documentation and evidence hes provided all 
seem plausible and I think this would have reassured Mr S. Further to this, it would appear 
from Mr S own submissions that this was an elaborate and sophisticated scam. This doesnt 
support that the warning of a potential scam is something that easily would have resulted in 
its discovery at the time. 
Mr S believes that when making the payments, details of the international beneficiary 
accounts would have been visible to the staff in branch and that this ought to have alerted 
them to a problem. Im not persuaded that the specifics of the beneficiary accounts would have been visible to those processing Mr S payments. And even if they were, 
HSBC UK Bank Plc arent responsible for monitoring accounts not held with them.
Mr S says that HSBC were fined in relation to their failure to monitor accounts. Whilst I 
understand why he raises this point, I can only decide the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, not wider issues. 
In addition to the above, Mr S has raised some further points about the beneficiary accounts. 
As explained in my jurisdiction decision all of Mr S concerns in relation to this arent the 
responsibility of HSBC UK Bank Plc (as Mr S bank). These matters do not arise from his 
customer relationship and so arent something I can comment on in this decision. 
Again, Im sorry to hear that Mr S company suffered a significant loss due to a scam and I 
dont doubt the impact this has had. But as I dont think HSBC are responsible for this, Im 
not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman