DRN-4337818
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited stopped paying a claim made
on his income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had the benefit of an income protection policy which can pay out a maximum monthly
benefit if hes incapacitated as defined by the policy terms, after an initial waiting period.
In 2020, Mr S made a claim under the policy. Shepherds Friendly accepted that Mr S was
incapacitated and started paying the monthly benefit.
Shepherd Friendly continued to review the claim and in 2021 received information from the
employment agency through which Mr S was employed reflecting that he wasnt employed at
the time of the incident which led to him being unable to work. His last day of employment
was around ten weeks before the incident which led to the claim. So, it ceased paying the
monthly benefit under the policy.
Mr S didnt think that was fair and he brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service to investigate.
In early 2022, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He concluded, based on the
further information obtained by Shepherds Friendly, it had fairly relied on the policy terms to
stop paying the claim. Thats because he wasnt earning an income at the time, he became
incapacitated.
Many months later, Mr S provided our Service with further information from two companies
which reflected that hed worked for them and received payment for certain periods in the
couple of months before the incident which led to his claim.
As this information hadnt been available at the time the monthly benefit ended, or when our
investigator issued their view, the Financial Ombudsman Service set up a new complaint 
and provided this information to Shepherds Friendly to consider. This information didnt 
change Shepherds Friendlys decision and it maintained its decision to cease paying the 
claim.
Our investigator concluded that Shepherds Friendlys continued position was fair given that
the information provided didnt show that Mr S was working at the time he became
incapacitated.
Mr S then provided bank statements showing that he received two payments from one of the
companies which had provided a letter confirming that hed done work for it in March 2020,
the month before his incapacity. These payments were made around a week before and a
week after the incident which led to his claim. He also provided a further signed (but
undated) letter from the operations manager of that company reflecting that Mr S had been
employed by it when he experienced incapacity and provided the date when that occurred.
In light of this further information, our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended
Shepherds Friendly to reinstate the claim and make backdated payments of the monthly
benefit to the date on which it stopped paying the monthly benefit.
Mr S accepted this outcome. Shepherds Friendly didnt and requested an Ombudsmans
decision. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2023 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below. 
.
Shepherds Friendly has an obligation to handle claims fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline paying a claim.
At the outset, I want to confirm that I havent looked at whether Shepherds Friendly acted
fairly and reasonably by stopping the monthly benefit in 2021. A view was issued by our
investigator early in 2022, explaining why he didnt think Shepherds Friendly had acted
unfairly based on the information available at the time. And that complaint wasnt referred to
an Ombudsman then and was closed, as being resolved by our Service, a month later.
The crux of the complaint Ive determined is whether Shepherds Friendly has acted fairly
and reasonably by maintaining its decision to end the monthly benefit based on new
information provided by Mr S.
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say at section 6:
You must be engaged in paid employment or earning through self- employment when
the Incapacity starts and you must suffer a complete or partial loss of income as a
direct consequence of not being fit and able to work in your Own Occupation. If you
are not in paid employment or earning through self-employment when Incapacity
starts, you may instead qualify for House Persons Benefit, if you meet the
requirements for that benefit. (See Section 18, House Persons Benefit). If you do not
suffer a loss of income from your employment or self-employment, you will not be
entitled to any Benefits under the plan
And benefits will not be paid: if you do not suffer any loss of income as a direct consequence 
of your incapacity
Further page 15 of the policy terms and conditions say:
We will not pay a claim where you have failed to establish to our satisfaction, or to
the satisfaction of our medical or other advisers that:
you have suffered a loss of income from your employment or self-employment as a
direct consequence of your Incapacity
Incapacity to defined as: you are not to fit and able to work in your Own Occupation as a
result or mental illness or injury
Own Occupation means: the occupation(s) you are engaged in and from which you derive
an income at the start of your incapacity
Has Shepherds Friendly fairly maintained its decision to stop paying the monthly benefit?In light of the further information more recently provided by Mr S, I still think Shepherds
Friendly has acted fairly and reasonably by maintaining its decision to stop paying the
monthly benefit under the terms of the policy. Ill explain why.
Mr S has provided a signed, but undated, letter on headed paper from a company
confirming Mr S was employed by it when he first experienced incapacity at the end
of April 2020 (the undated letter). Mr Ss bank statements from around that time also
reflect that he received around £1,900 and £1,750 from that company around a week
before and a week after the date on which the incident took place which led to his
claim being made. I understand why Mr S says that these documents taken together
support him being in paid employment/self-employment around the time he became
incapacitated.
However, the bank statement shows the money going into his account on 17 April
and 1 May 2020. Thats when there were extensive national restrictions in place due
to the Covid-19 pandemic (commonly known as lockdown) and the government was
advising everyone to stay at home, and to work from home wherever possible.
Our investigator has tried several times to contact the company who provided the
undated letter to understand what the payments were for, how the company was
impacted during the early part of the Covid-19 pandemic and its operations. He
hasnt been able to speak to anyone. But our investigator has been able to contact
the author of the undated letter on the telephone number they provided at the bottom
of the undated letter. Theyve told our Service they werent employed by the
company in early 2020, so couldnt confirm Mr S was working there then, although
they did recall being asked to provide the undated letter on behalf of another director.
The company Mr S was said to have worked for at the time was in the leisure and
travel industry, I think its reasonable to presume they wouldve been significantly
impacted by the lockdown as the government advice was to stay at home and people
werent permitted to meet anyone from outset their household, let alone travel for
recreational purposes. Because of the government advice in place, and the time of
the payments, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence that Mr S was earning an
income from work he was carrying out for that company at the time he became
incapacity. He may have received payments, but I dont know what for. On the
balance of probabilities, I dont think theres enough evidence to conclude that Mr S
was engaged in paid employment or self-employment at the time of his incapacity.
And the policy doesnt pay a benefit if theres no loss as a direct consequence of Mr
S incapacity. So, I dont think it would be fair to direct Shepherds Friendly to
reinstate the claim and made backdated payments to Mr S from the date on which it
ceased paying the benefit.
Ive also taken into account that the initial letter provided by that company dated
October 2022 doesnt make any reference to payment being made to Mr S on 17
April or 1 May 2020 or for any work done by him during the month the incident took
place which led to his claim. It only reflects that Mr S received two payments (for
lesser amounts) for hours worked the month before that, in March 2020.
So, Ive placed less weight on the contents of the undated letter, particularly as its
author wasnt employed at the time Mr S was said to still be working for the company
in April 2020. And I dont know why it refers to a later employment period, not
mentioned in the October 2022 letter.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to consider. 
Mr S replied saying it was unfair to assume that because of the nature of the industry he was 
employed in that he was at home during lockdown. During this time, the company he worked 
for was still active doing school runs and transporting key workers to and from work. He also 
provided a letter dated 31 July 2023 from a director of the company he said he was working 
for immediately before he became incapacitated. This letter reflects:
- The previous two letters had been drafted with their authority and both authors of 
those letters have since left the companys employment.
- Mr S started employment with the company in June 2019; originally as coach driver 
and promoted to an office position. This position was held by Mr S until he became 
incapacitated at the end of April 2020 and was no longer able to carry out his duties.
Our investigator forwarded a copy of this letter to Shepherds Friendly for comment. It raised 
concerns about the validity of the letters received and explained why. Shepherds Friendly 
also provided a copy of the claim form completed by Mr S in May 2020 which reflects that Mr 
S said hed not worked since February 2020 and made no reference to the employment with 
the company he now says he was working for immediately before becoming incapacitated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out above 
and forms part of my final decision) and for reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Ive placed less weight on the contents of the letter provided by the company Mr S says he 
was working for immediately before he was incapacitated dated 31 July 2023. Thats 
because this letter, although stating that Mr S was employed up to 24 April 2020, contradicts 
other information Ive been provided, which Ive placed more weight on.
Mr Ss original claim form dated May 2020  so shortly after he became incapacitated at the 
end of April 2020 - reflects his last working date to be early February 2020. If Mr S had been 
in paid work until the end of April 2020, I think its reasonable to assume that he wouldve put 
the date in April 2020 as his last working day. 
Further, the date he put on his claim form also contradicts whats said in other letters 
provided by companies reflecting Mr S worked for them in March and April 2020.
Shepherds Friendly has also provided a copy of a GP certificate dated 16 March 2020 
reflecting that Mr S was unfit to work from that date to 19 April 2020. So that also contradicts 
information provided by various companies reflecting that Mr S was working for them in the 
weeks leading to him becoming incapacitated. Whilst the GP certificate may have been 
submitted by Mr S in support of a different income protection claim, I still think its relevant 
evidence for me to consider as it relates to whether Mr S was in paid work during the 
relevant period.
Mr S says he returned to work before the date on which the GP certificate was due to expire. 
That may be the case but as Mr S has previously also sought to rely on a letter reflecting 
that he received payment for work on 20 March and 31 March 2020  only a few days after the date of his sick note - I think its reasonable for Shepherds Friendly to refer to the 
discrepancy. Particularly as his claim form also supports that he wasnt working after the 
beginning of February 2020.
 
Due to the overall conflicting information, Im satisfied Shepherds Friendly has acted fairly 
and reasonably by maintaining its decision to end the monthly benefit.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman