DRN-3776779
The complaint
Miss I complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined to port her mortgage 
product. She disagrees with the reason given, that the property she wanted to buy was 
outside Nationwides lending policy. Miss I asks that Nationwide ports the product or pays 
compensation.
What happened
Miss I had a mortgage with Nationwide. Shed taken out a fixed rate product which included 
an early repayment charge (ERC) which applied if the mortgage was repaid before mid-
2025. The product was portable, which meant Miss I could keep the product when she 
moved home and avoid incurring the ERC.
Miss I applied to port her mortgage. The valuer instructed by Nationwide said the property 
didnt meet Nationwides lending policy. Nationwide declined Miss Is application.
Miss I disagrees that the property was outside Nationwides lending policy. She says 
Nationwide offered mortgages for other properties in the same development. She says if 
Nationwide wont port her product shell have to pay the ERC, which she says is unfair, and 
she wont be able to secure a similar interest rate. 
Our investigator said Nationwide was entitled to make a commercial decision about its 
criteria and whether to lend. She said the property was outside Nationwides lending criteria, 
and it was entitled to rely on the opinion of its valuer. Miss I didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Porting is always dependant on the property being acceptable to the lender. The valuer 
instructed by Nationwide said the property Miss I wanted to buy was outside Nationwides 
lending policy. This was because Nationwide doesnt accept former local authority flats in a 
block over five storeys. 
Miss I set out in detail why she doesnt agree with this. Nationwide considered her 
comments and the evidence she provided and didnt change its decision.
Miss I disputes that the property is ex-local authority using what she says is the commonly 
accepted definition. Miss I says properties in the development where her property is located 
were let out at market rent (rather than social rent) to affluent people before tenants 
exercised their right to buy. Miss I says her property was never let out as a residence by the 
local authority as its a recent conversion from a commercial unit. I understand these points. 
But Miss Is property is part of a local authority development, albeit it was originally let as a 
commercial unit, and the freeholder is the local authority. I dont think its unreasonable for 
Nationwide to categorise the property as former local authority. 
Miss I also disputes that her property is in a block. She says it was developed from an 
underused space on an intersection. And she disputes that the block is more than five 
storeys. It seems some parts within the block have more or less storeys than others, and 
Miss I says her property is in a part with only two storeys. But Nationwide instructed a 
qualified surveyor  a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  to carry out 
the valuation. The valuer said the property was in a block of more than five storeys. This 
doesnt appear inconsistent with the photos provided by Miss I. I think it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to rely on the valuers report. 
Miss I says Nationwide offered mortgages on other similar properties in the same complex, 
meaning it didnt apply its policy consistently. Nationwide said this could be because the 
properties were bought before its policy changed. Miss I described a Nationwide mortgage 
ported to a property in a block of seven storeys in the same development in 2021. I can 
understand Miss Is frustration about this, but I cant fairly make findings about this mortgage 
or why Nationwide agreed to port it or if, as Miss I says, the property (like hers) was outside 
its lending policy. It would be unfair to make findings without knowing more and I cant fairly 
ask for evidence and information about a third partys mortgage and circumstances. But if 
Nationwide did waive its policy due to a customers particular circumstances or simply made 
an error when it agreed to lend, that wouldnt make it fair and reasonable to require it to do 
the same for Miss I.
Miss I says Nationwide benefitted from not porting her mortgage product as it received the 
ERC and didnt have to continue with the lower interest rate product. Miss I says she was 
singled out and discriminated against. We asked Miss I to explain more about why she felt 
she was discriminated against, and she said that she feels she was treated unfairly and 
differently to other customers. Im sorry Miss I feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence I dont think thats the case. I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to say 
the property was outside its lending policy and I think thats the reason it declined Miss Is 
porting application. I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
This left Miss I with a difficult decision. She could look for a property which was acceptable 
to Nationwide, so she could port her mortgage product. Or apply for a mortgage elsewhere 
at the new lenders product rate to buy the property she wanted, which would mean paying 
the ERC.
When Miss I took out her mortgage product she agreed to the terms. This included an ERC 
which was payable if she repaid the mortgage before mid-2025. Miss I repaid her mortgage 
during the product term and Nationwide was entitled under the terms and conditions to apply 
the ERC. I know Miss I will be disappointed, but I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Nationwide to refund or waive the ERC or compensate her for taking out a mortgage 
at a higher interest rate.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman