DRN-1650151
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain they were mis-sold two unit-linked reviewable Whole of Life (WOL) 
policies by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Ltd because they didn't want or 
need the policies and were coerced into taking them out. 
What happened 
In 1990 Mr C and Mrs C saw an adviser for Sun Life and were advised to take out a WOL 
policy to provide both life cover and investment. According to Sun Life Mr and Mrs C stopped 
paying the premium in January 1993 at which point the policy became paid-up. They finally 
cancelled the policy in February 2019 and received the small value in the policy at that time. 
Sun Life upheld the complaint about this policy on the basis it had been sold to include both 
life cover and investment and wasnt suitable to provide both. It offered redress based on 
repayment of premiums less the cost of life cover on the basis Mr and Mrs C had a need for 
life cover.
Mr and Mrs C took out a second WOL policy in 1994 to provide life and Critical Illness Cover 
(CIC). They stopped paying the premium in 1996 and the policy lapsed without value. Sun 
Life didnt uphold the complaint about this policy on the basis it was suitable for their needs.
Mr and Mrs C also complained about two endowment policies they were sold which has 
been the subject of a separate complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which I made the following findings:
I have considered both the complaints together and considered the overall picture 
when considering if Mr and Mrs C were coerced or pressured into taking out the 
WOL policies.
Mr and Mrs Cs memories of what happened from so long ago are not persuasive 
evidence of what actually happened.
I am not satisfied they were put under pressure or coerced into taking out the WOL 
policies and it is difficult to see how such pressure couldve been applied given the 
policies arent linked to anything else such as a mortgage or loan.
I have seen no evidence either policy was unaffordable given the premiums for the 
1990 policy were paid for around three years and for the 1994 policy for around two 
years.
The evidence they have provided in this complaint indicates they did have some 
financial difficulties but Mr and Mrs C both had above average incomes and there is 
nothing to show the adviser was made aware of any financial difficulties.
Sun Lifes calculation of redress  based on repayment of premium less the cost of 
life cover - for the 1990 policy is reasonable, as it is more likely than not they wanted 
life cover.
Mr and Mrs C have provided no evidence that the bank charges they incurred were 
as a result of payment of the premiums for the WOL policies. Even if they had incurred bank charges as a result of the WOL premiums Im not 
satisfied they wouldnt have incurred charges anyway given I think they wouldve 
taken out life cover in any event.
The 1994 WOL policy was a suitable recommendation as Mr and Mrs C had a need 
for life cover and CIC and if one of them died or became critically ill this wouldve had 
a significant impact on the remaining earner.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing any further information they wanted me to 
consider before reaching my final decision. Sun Life provided no further information. Mr and 
Mrs C, in summary, made the following points:
They were not married at the time the policy was sold in 1990 and had only just met 
and were not living together.
The ombudsman hasnt put on the record the evidence they have provided.
They were told by the adviser that he received a high commission on each policy as 
long as they kept it going for two years.
They were to introduce other family members to the adviser after taking out a policy.
They verbally told the adviser about their financial situation which is why Mrs C was 
signed up to introduce other people.
They have not been asked to provide bank statements to show the bank charges 
they have incurred and their financial position wouldve been better if they hadnt 
been sold the policies.
They knew the adviser personally and he took advantage of this.
They have provided evidence that the adviser didnt provide accurate data on 
paperwork which they would like to be noted in the decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have considered the various points made by Mr and Mrs C in response to my provisional 
decision but they have provided no new evidence that would lead me to change my decision.
I acknowledge they were not married at the time they were sold the 1990 WOL policy. But 
that doesnt make the advice to take out the policy unsuitable. Given my finding that they 
werent pressured into taking out the policy they couldve decided not to take it out. And if 
they didnt already have more long term intentions with regard to their relationship in 1990 I 
think it is very unlikely they wouldve agreed to take out a joint WOL policy.
I dont know what evidence Mr and Mrs C are referring to which they say I havent put on 
record. But I am not required to set out all the evidence in my decision and if I havent 
referred to a piece of evidence then it is because I dont consider it central to my findings. I 
have considered all the evidence provided by both parties in coming to my decision
Mr and Mrs C have referred to the adviser saying he would receive a high commission if they 
kept the policy for two years. But that didnt make the recommendation unsuitable. I note that 
they have suggested they were encouraged to introduce other family members to the 
adviser. But I dont think there is anything wrong with the adviser suggesting other family 
members might benefit from his advice. It was for Mr and Mrs C to decide if they wanted to 
do this. And again Im not persuaded this provides any evidence that the adviser mis-sold 
the two WOL policies to them.
I note Mr and Mrs C have said they verbally told the adviser about their financial 
circumstances. But, as I have already said, their recollection from so long ago is not 
persuasive evidence of what actually happened. And given the available documentary evidence from the time of sale of the two policies doesnt support what they have said, Im 
not satisfied it is more likely than not that the adviser was made aware of their financial 
problems.
Mr and Mrs C have said they have not been asked to provide evidence of bank charges but I 
dont think evidence of bank charges would help me make my decision anyway. They have 
already provided evidence of their financial difficulties which show these were not just 
resulting from payment of premiums for the WOL policies. 
I see no need to set out any inaccuracies in the paperwork as this doesnt change my overall 
decision that the policies werent mis-sold to Mr and Mrs C.
My final decision 
I don't uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above and in my provisional 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman