DRN-4265480
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) charged him an additional policy 
excess fee for a claim relating to a hire car he was using, whilst his car was being repaired 
following an accident, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was damaged whilst parked. He made a claim to esure, and it arranged for 
repairs to be carried out. Mr A wasnt satisfied with the handling of his claim. He referred his 
complaint to our service and these issues were dealt with. Mr A subsequently complained 
about further charges he was asked to pay by the hire car company. This point has been 
considered separately to his initial complaint, under this new reference. 
In his complaint Mr A says the hire company is asking him to pay upwards of £7,000. This is 
to pay for damage caused by an accident he had when driving the hire car. Mr A says he 
was told the damage would be handled by the hire company and its insurance. He says he 
cant afford to pay the amount requested and this is causing him to worry. 
In its response esure says Mr A was insured to drive the hire car under his existing policy. It 
says the hire company wrote to Mr A to tell him he was liable for the cost of repairs. This 
included the loss of rental for the period the hire car couldnt be hired out. The letter said this 
was up to the amount of Mr As policy excess. esure says this wasnt worded very clearly by 
the hire car company. It explained to Mr A that he had to pay another policy excess as hed 
made two claims. 
esure says it paid for the repairs to the hire car, but the policy excess had to be paid by Mr 
A.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and asked for this issue to be considered by our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Mr A has made two claims against his 
policy with esure. The first was for the damage caused by a third party when his car was 
parked. The second claim is for the damage he caused to the hire car whilst he was driving 
it. For both claims he says Mr A is liable to pay his policy excess. 
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read Mr As policy terms and conditions to understand what he must pay in the event of 
a claim. The terms, under the section entitled Damage to your car say:
What isnt covered
Excesses  All the excesses which apply that are shown in your Schedule
Mr As policy schedule says:
Excesses
Voluntary vehicle damage.. £1,000.
This explains that Mr A has agreed to pay the first £1,000 in the event of a claim. I can see 
from his certificate of motor insurance that Mr As policy covers him to drive a hire car 
supplied by an approved vehicle supplier, whilst his car is being repaired. esure doesnt 
dispute that Mr A was covered under his policy for the damage caused to the hire car. It 
confirms it has settled the hire companys claim. All that remains is for Mr A to pay the policy 
excess. 
I acknowledge Mr As view that insurance for the hire car was provided by the hire car 
company. Ive read the vehicle hire agreement Mr A was provided with. On the first page it 
says, YOUR INSURANCE DETAILS (POLICY). It then confirms Mr As insurer is esure 
and includes his policy number. The hire agreement also says:
Your car insurance policy with esure Services Limited. See clause 10
Clause 10 says:
You must ensure that the Policy provides comprehensive cover for the period of hire and 
until the Hire Vehicle is back in Our possession and in the event of damage to, or the theft 
of, the Hire Vehicle You must Promptly and diligently pursue a claim with Your insurers for 
the full amount of damage to, or loss of, the Hire Vehicle and You will hold the proceeds of 
such claim on trust for Us but will pay them to Us as soon as possible.
And clause 14 says:
14. You will when asked pay Us the reasonable retail cost of repair or replacement if You do 
not return the Hire Vehicle including its accessories, parts and equipment in the same 
condition as they were at the start of the hire, whether or not You caused the damage or 
loss. You will usually only have to pay the amount of Your Excess
The agreement Mr A had with the hire car company, meant his policy with esure covered the 
cost of the damage to the hire car. Mr A is only liable to pay an amount up to his policy 
excess. As discussed he agreed to a policy excess fee for £1,000. So, as a claim was made 
against Mr As policy with esure for damage to the hire car. Mr A must pay his policy excess 
as per the terms and conditions he agreed. 
I agree with esure that the letter the hire company wrote to Mr A in May 2023 couldve been 
clearer. It appears a template letter was used, and this wasnt filled in fully. So, the letter 
says, £Excess instead of detailing the actual policy excess Mr A was due to pay. Other 
parts of the letter werent filled in with the expected information either. However, the hire 
companys letter does say Mr A is only obliged to pay, up to the amount of the excess. I 
think this was clear. 
In summary, although I understand it can be confusing when a credit hire company is 
involved in a claim, I dont think esure has treated Mr A unfairly here. It covered the cost of 
the damage caused by Mr A to the hire car. Its unfortunate that hes had to make two claims in such a short period of time. But its correct that he pays his agreed policy excess of 
£1,000 for each of these claims. So, I cant reasonably ask esure to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman