DRN-2902067
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cartlidge Morland Limited (Cartlidge) gave him incorrect information 
about his investments and failed to follow his instructions. And that this led to a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr M used Cartlidge for financial advice. In September 2019, Mr M discussed his financial 
objectives with them. He said he had two former pension plans  one held with provider 1 
and one held with provider 2. Mr M also had a current occupational pension plan. He said 
hed sold his pension with provider 1 to cash as hed been apprehensive about the impact on 
markets of Brexit. He said he wanted to transfer his pension with provider 2 into provider 1. 
He also wanted to consider the investment strategy on his funds with provider 1. He also 
wanted to understand what funding hed need in order to have a pension fund of around £1M 
at age 60. 
Cartlidge emailed Mr M on 26 September 2019. They apologised that his pension with 
provider 2 hadnt been transferred when it shouldve been. They said theyd confirmed that 
pensions could be transferred into the plan with provider 1 and that all funds within that plan 
would benefit from the protected retirement age of 45 on that plan. So they felt it made a lot 
of sense to transfer pension benefits to the plan held with provider 1.
Cartlidge made a recommendation in a report dated 2 October 2019 that Mr M transferred 
his pension with provider 2 into his pension with provider 1. At the same time, they advised 
Mr M to invest all the funds in the Cartlidge Morland Select Portfolio Service (SPS) 
balanced-speculative portfolio. 
Cartlidge said Mr M agreed to transfer his pension with provider 2, and to the investment 
advice for those funds. They also said that Mr M agreed for the funds he held with provider 1 
to be invested back into the market in January 2020. A phone note of a call between 
Cartlidge and Mr M on 28 January 2020 states: He agreed to go ahead with the Aviva 
transfer and wants to invest all of his money now and agreed to the spec bal portfolio as per 
my letter.
On 3 March 2020, Cartlidge had a call with Mr M. As Cartlidge are not required to record 
their calls, no copy of this call exists. Cartlidge said they believed theyd spoken about the 
transfer from provider 2 and the investment advice theyd given. They felt theyd talked about 
how far along the transfer from provider 2 was. They said that Mr M had asked if he was in 
cash, and theyd said yes. Mr M said he felt Cartlidge had told him his pension with both 
providers was in cash. He said that when hed found out that his pension with provider 1 
wasnt in cash on 19 March 2020, hed asked how much his pension had lost specifically 
from 3 March 2020. He said he wouldnt have asked this unless hed understood that his 
pension with provider 1 was in cash on 3 March 2020. 
Cartlidges records show that on 19 March 2020, they told Mr M that his pension with 
provider 1 would have fallen in value due to the current market conditions. The records show 
that Mr M said he was under the impression that his pension with provider 1 was held in 
cash. 
Cartlidge said that theyd invested the money as agreed on a call at the end of January 
2020, and as originally recommended. Mr M said hed had no confirmation that Cartlidge had 
invested his money, or what it had been invested in. Cartlidge said it was covered in their 
letter, which Mr M confirmed he had a copy of. The record then said that Mr M said Cartlidge 
had told him he was in cash, and that as a result theyd had lost him lots of money.
Mr M complained to Cartlidge. He said that the advice theyd given him on 3 March 2020 
was factually incorrect. And that instead of his pension with provider 1 being held in cash, as 
hed thought, it was actually invested in funds. He felt that it was likely that the value of this 
pension had reduced due to the error. He asked for the value of his pension with provider 1 
on 3 March 2020 and on 19 March 2020. Mr M said that while hed never disputed the 
investment advice, Cartlidge had told him on 3 March 2020 that the funds were still in cash. 
And that were a lot worse places to be given the climate at the time. He said that when he 
asked if he could move all his funds to gold hed been advised to stay in cash as Cartlidge 
didn't offer that facility.
Also on 19 March 2020, Mr M confirmed to Cartlidge that he had three pensions:
The one held with provider 1 
One he said hed written to them about the previous week to ask to be transferred 
into the pension held with provider 1
A further pension - held with provider 2 
Mr M emailed Cartlidge on 19 March 2020 about his need to transfer his third pension into 
his pension held with provider 1. He said he wanted the transferred funds to be held in cash. 
He asked Cartlidge to send him the necessary documentation to action the transfer.
Cartlidge said that they needed authority for this plan (held with provider 2) in order to be 
able to advise on the transfer. Mr M asked how long it would take to complete the transfer. 
Cartlidge told him it would take two or three weeks if Mr M went down the advised route. 
They also noted that if the pension held with provider 2 was Mr Ms current workplace 
pension he shouldnt fully transfer the plan as he would need somewhere for his ongoing 
contributions to be paid into.
Also on 19 March 2020, Mr M asked Cartlidge to ensure that his pension held with provider 1 
was invested only in cash. Cartlidge told Mr M that their advice was to remain invested, as 
they felt that it would be nearly impossible to re-enter the market at the right time. But they 
agreed to carry out Mr Ms instructions. Mr M confirmed he wanted to move to cash as he 
wanted the option of drawing on his pension funds at age 45. Cartlidge requested that the 
funds held with provider 1 were moved to cash on 19 March 2020. 
Mr M also asked Cartlidge for an update on the transfer hed requested the previous week. 
Also on 19 March 2020, Mr Ms pension provider emailed Cartlidge to confirm receipt of the 
transfer documentation theyd sent in about Mr Ms pension transfer. They said it had been 
sent onto the ceding provider in order to initiate the transfer. And on 31 March 2020 the 
transfer was confirmed. 
On 20 March 2020, Cartlidge emailed Mr M. They said that the funds with provider 2 were 
still in the transfer process. Therefore, as theyd confirmed previously, these would be in 
cash during the transfer. They also said that they would make sure the transferred funds werent invested once provider 1 had received them. Cartlidge also provided the valuations 
Mr M had requested. These were:
As at 3 March 2020 - £47,332.40
As at 19 March2020 - £37,176.63
Cartlidge issued their final response to the complaint on 24 April 2020. They covered two 
issues  the investment for the pension held with provider 1 and the delayed transfer of the 
pension with provider 2.  They didnt uphold the complaint about the pension with provider 1. 
They said that the 2 October 2019 report had noted that Mr M had exited the market in late 
2018. And the report had recommended that reinvestment into the market be reviewed after 
the end of October 2019. Cartlidge said Mr M had called them on 27 January 2020 and 
confirmed that he wanted to go ahead with the transfer of his pension held with provider 2 
into his plan held with provider 1, and then to invest all of his funds in the speculative 
balanced portfolio, in line with the advisers recommendation. They said that Mr Ms adviser 
had emailed him on 5 February 2020 and stated Investment  as agreed, we have made 
the deals for you to invest in the Cartlidge Morland balanced/speculative investment 
portfolio.  And that this clearly showed that Mr M had been told that his funds with provider 1 
were now being invested in line with the recommendation in the October 2019 report. 
Cartlidge said that although Mr M felt that his adviser had told him on 3 March 2020 that his 
pension with provider 1 was still in cash, they felt it was clear that the adviser had been 
talking about the funds being transferred from provider 2. They felt Mr M had misunderstood 
what hed been told that day. They also noted that the October 2019 report had clearly 
explained that transfers would be in cash, and that their adviser had reiterated this in his 20 
March 2020 email to Mr M. Overall, they were satisfied that their adviser had invested Mr 
Ms funds in line with his letter of recommendation and that Mr M was aware that those 
instructions had been actioned. 
Cartlidge upheld the complaint about the transfer from provider 2 to provider 1. And offered a 
total of £500 compensation, of which £323.77 was in respect of the financial loss caused by 
the delay. They said that due to an oversight of Mr Ms adviser, who was appointed to that 
role in January 2019, Mr M hadnt been contacted about the transfer until September 2019, 
despite having first contacted them about the transfer in late October 2018. They said their 
adviser had apologised, and that Mr M had accepted the apology. They felt that Mr M hadnt 
been disadvantaged by the delay until the point at which provider 1 had ignored Cartlidges 
instructions to invest the transferred in funds in cash. They said the transfer had completed 
on 20 March 2020. And on 31 March 2020 the funds were converted back into cash. 
Mr M remained unhappy. And brought his complaint to this service. He said that his main 
complaint point was that Cartlidge told him on 3 March 2020 that the funds held with provider 
1 were still in cash.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Cartlidge 
were responsible for the losses Mr M said hed incurred in his pension with provider 1 due to 
being invested in the market and not in cash. And while he acknowledged that Cartlidge had 
caused delays to the transfer of his pension from provider 2, he felt that Cartlidge had 
appropriately compensated him for this. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that it shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why. 
There are two parts to Mr Ms complaint  the investment of the pension held with provider 1, 
and the delayed transfer from provider 2 to provider 1. Ill cover each point separately in my 
decision.  
Investment of the funds held with provider 1
In their October 2019 report, Cartlidge recommended that Mr M transferred his pension 
funds from provider 2 to provider 1 and to invest all funds in a balanced-speculative portfolio. 
At the time of the advice, the funds held with provider 1 were held in cash.
Cartlidges position is that Mr M agreed to their advice on the investments of these funds  
both the transfer from provider 2 and the funds held with provider 1 - in January 2020. 
Theres clearly been some confusion over the call between Cartlidge and Mr M on 3 March 
2020. As its not been possible to hear a recording of that call, its impossible to know exactly 
who said what. But, after that call, Mr M said he believed that funds held with provider 1 and 
provider 2 were held in cash. Cartlidge said theyd explained that provider 2s funds were in 
cash while the transfer was being processed. They didnt agree that theyd said the funds 
held with provider 1 were in cash, as theyd invested those funds in line with their October 
2019 recommendations, which they said had been agreed with Mr M in January 2020. 
Mr M said hed only found out that the funds held with provider 1 werent held in cash on 19 
March 2020. At this point, he asked for those funds to be moved to cash and complained to 
Cartlidge. He felt hed lost out financially.
Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr M didnt know his funds with provider 1 
had been invested in line with Cartlidges recommendations before 19 March 2020. I say this 
because Mr M had been given other information that wouldve shown the funds had been 
invested as recommended before this date. There was a call on 28 January between Mr M 
and Cartlidge. The call record stated: [Mr M] agreed to go ahead with the [provider 2] 
transfer and wants to invest all of his money now and agreed to the spec bal portfolio as per 
my letter. I consider that this evidences what was discussed between Mr M and Cartlidge 
and shows that Mr M had agreed that the money held with provider 1 should be invested in 
line with Cartlidges October 2019 advice. I can also see that Cartlidge emailed Mr M on 5 
February 2020 to confirm what had been discussed on 28 January 2020. The email stated: 
Investment  as agreed, we have made the deals for you to invest in the Cartlidge Morland 
balanced speculative investment portfolio. I also note that correspondence sent to Mr M 
from provider 1, dated 7 February 2020, shows that his funds are invested in 17 different 
funds. Mr M hasnt told this service he didnt receive any of these documents. Therefore Im 
satisfied that Cartlidge fairly carried out Mr Ms instructions to invest his pension funds in line 
with their October 2019 recommendations on 28 January 2020. And Mr M was informed that 
this had happened by provider 1, in their 7 February 2020 statement, and by Cartlidge, in 
their 5 February 2020 email. 
Ive not seen evidence of any further correspondence between Mr M and Cartlidge between 
5 February 2020 and 3 March 2020, when the call took place. So I consider that Mr M 
shouldve known that his funds with provider 1 were still invested in line with Cartlidges 
October 2019 recommendations. For anything to have changed since 5 February 2020, I 
wouldve expected to have seen either an instruction from Mr M, or an update from 
Cartlidge. As Ive seen no evidence of an instruction from Mr M asking Cartlidge to reverse 
that investment after hed been informed it had taken place on 5 February 2020, I consider that he was comfortable that the funds held with provider 1 had been invested. 
Therefore, although I can see that Mr M feels very strongly that Cartlidge told him, on 3 
March 2020, that his funds with provider 1 were held in cash, the evidence Ive seen 
suggests that he shouldve been very surprised to hear that. I dont dispute that Mr M felt this 
is what he was told. I accept that he may have misunderstood the information he was given 
on the 3 March 2020 call. But Im satisfied that Cartlidge didnt set out to confuse him. And 
that they provided enough information soon after that call for Mr M to have been clear about 
what hed been told. I also consider that if Mr M had been told that his funds with provider 1 
were held in cash, he shouldve been in a position  based on the information hed received 
in early February 2020 - to ask Cartlidge at what point theyd disinvested his funds in 
provider 1. Therefore, Im satisfied that Cartlidge didnt tell Mr M that his funds with provider 
1 were held in cash. And therefore I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Ill now consider the delayed transfer from provider 2.
The delayed transfer
Cartlidge have acknowledged that the transfer of Mr Ms pension from provider 2 to provider 
1 was delayed due to their adviser. And have offered a total of £500 compensation in 
recognition for this, £323.77 of which is in respect of the financial loss Mr M suffered and the 
remainder is for the inconvenience caused. 
From what Ive seen, our investigator asked Mr M if this part of his complaint had been 
resolved to his satisfaction. I understand that Mr M said he intended on taking the 
compensation offered. But that he didn't want to at that point as he wanted the delay to be 
used as evidence of a pattern of poor service from Cartlidge. 
Ive fully reviewed this part of Mr Ms complaint to see if I consider that Cartlidge have taken 
reasonable steps to put things right. 
Cartlidge have accepted that they caused the initial delay to the transfer and have 
apologised for this. And although they maintain that the failure to retain the transferred funds 
as cash was caused by provider 1, theyve carried out a loss calculation so that Mr M can be 
put back to the position he wouldve been in if the funds hadnt been invested in line with the 
October 2019 recommendations after the funds reached provider 1. I consider that this was 
a fair and reasonable approach to take. I understand that Mr M hasnt asked Cartlidge to pay 
the £500 offered yet. If he is prepared to accept this compensation now, he should tell 
Cartlidge.
I acknowledge that Mr M told this service that he couldnt let his complaint go as he doesnt 
believe his adviser should even be in the job given the error he considers he made. Im sorry 
that he feels this way. While I accept that Mr M may have misunderstood the information he 
was given on the 3 March 2020 call, Im satisfied that Cartlidge didnt set out to confuse him. 
And that they provided enough information soon after that call for Mr M to have been clear 
about what hed been told. And I dont consider that Cartlidge should do any more than 
theyve already offered to do.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman