DRN-2331365
The complaint
Mrs M complain that Studio Retail Limited didnt reply to her request for information relating 
to her account.
What happened
Mrs M held an account with Studio. In January 2020 she wrote to Studio asking for the 
following:
Details of returned items
Details of the date and time that items were delivered
A request for the account to be placed on hold
A few days later, Mrs M made a similar request using the online contact form.
Studio identified that the email address on the online contact form didnt match the details it 
held for Mrs Ms account. It responded and advised that it was unable to discuss an account 
with anyone but the account holder. A response was received from the alternative email 
address stating that they hadnt contacted Studio.
Studio reviewed the account and sent a letter to Mrs M, in which it explained that a specialist 
team were looking int providing the information she had requested but that it needed copies 
of her identification documents before it could provide the information. 
Studio also sent two emails to Mrs Ms registered email address but received no response. It 
also tried  unsuccessfully  to telephone Mrs M.
Mrs M wrote to Studio in February 2020. She said shed been advised that the account had 
been placed on hold, but shed now been told that it was in default. She also said she hadnt 
received any of the information shed requested.
Studio wrote to Mrs M and included a copy of the credit agreement, details of transactions 
on her account and details of returned items. It said it was still awaiting identification 
documents from her before it could provide the other information shed requested. Studio 
also advised Mrs M that the hold on the account had been removed because of the 
discrepancy in the email addresses. It confirmed that the account was in arrears and advised 
Mrs M of the payment required to bring it back up to date.
Mrs M raised a complaint with Studio. She said shed already sent her identification 
documents by recorded post. In response, Studio said it had no record of receiving the 
documents.
Mrs M was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said she didnt think Studio had done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mrs M, especially as she still doesnt have 
all the information she requested. However, having looked at everything, Im unable to say 
that Studio has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
I can see that when she contacted Studio via the online contact form, Mrs M did so from an 
email address which was different to the email address registered to her Studio account. 
Given the sensitive nature of the information requested by Mrs M, I think Studio acted 
reasonably in taking steps to confirm that it was Mrs M who had sent the request.
I appreciate that Mrs M says she told Studio that she also used the other email address. But 
I still think Studio were right to have concerns, particularly as when it emailed Mrs M on the 
alternative email address someone replied and said they hadnt contact Studio.
Given the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Studio to ask Mrs M to provide 
identification documents. I appreciate that Mrs M has said she sent these by recorded 
delivery. Im unable to say exactly what Mrs M sent in the post, but Studio has said it hasnt 
received any of the identification documents its requested.
I can see that Studio made several attempts to contact Mrs M to obtain the identification 
documents. And I can see that in the meantime, it provided what it could of the information 
shed requested. Im satisfied that Studio did as much as possible to deal with Mrs Ms 
request, but I think it was reasonable that it didnt provide the most sensitive parts of the 
information requested until it could confirm Mrs Ms identity.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant say that Studio has made a error or done anything wrong 
here. If Mrs M still requires the information she requested, I think Studio ought to provide this 
as soon as it received Mrs Ms identification documents. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman