DRN-2335834
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the cancellation and set up fees IGO4 Limited charged and its 
failure to act on her first request to cancel her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K bought a car insurance policy through a broker, IGO4 in March 2020. Three weeks 
later Ms K called to make some changes to the drivers under the policy. The changes she 
wanted to make wasnt possible, so on 17 April 2020 Ms K asked IGO4 to cancel her policy. 
IGO4 didnt act on Ms Ks request and her policy remained active. 11 days later  on 28 April 
2020 - Ms K contacted IGO4 as it hadnt cancelled her policy. 
IGO4 cancelled Ms Ks policy from 28 April 2020. Ms K complained to IGO4. She was 
unhappy with the set-up fee it charged of £60 and a cancellation fee of £65. She was also 
unhappy that it hadnt backdated the cancellation to the date she originally requested. 
IGO4 said its charges were explained in its terms and conditions before Ms K bought the 
policy. So it didnt agree to refund them. It upheld Ms Ks complaint in part and backdated 
the cancellation to 17 April 2020. IGO4 arranged for a pro rata refund of premium. 
Ms K remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought 
IGO4 was entitled to charge its set up and cancellation fee as they were clearly explained to 
Ms K before she bought the policy. 
The investigator considered the fact that Ms K had paid a set-up fee for the arranging and 
handling of the policy. But Ms K had received a poor service from IGO4 when it cancelled 
her policy. So she recommended IGO4 compensate Ms K for the inconvenience it caused 
her by paying £50. 
IGO4 didnt agree. It said it put Ms K back in the position she would have been when the 
error was brought to their attention and the refund amount was only £13.42. So IGO4 
believes the recommended compensation award of £50 is excessive. 
Ms K hasnt replied to the investigators findings. As IGO4 didnt agree, the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a broker, IGO4 arranged Ms Ks policy and this would have involved set up costs. Its not 
for us to tell a business what to charge, but we look at whether a business made their 
charges clear so that a customer was able to make an informed decision before buying the 
policy. 
In this case, I think IGO4 made it clear that in the event of cancellation, Ms K wouldnt 
receive a refund of the set-up fee and it would charge a cancellation fee. So Im not asking 
IGO4 to refund these charges. 
However, as the broker responsible for administering the cancellation of Ms Ks policy, I 
think it provided a poor service in failing to deal with her request to cancel the policy when 
she first contacted it. It was only actioned correctly because Ms K contacted IGO4 twice 
more as it didnt backdate the cancellation and she raised her complaint. So I think Ms K 
was caused unnecessary inconvenience which would have been avoided if IGO4 had acted 
on her first request. 
Putting things right
I therefore agree that a fair compensation award is £50 for the poor service provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require IGO4 Limited to pay Ms K 
£50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by failing to cancel her policy  and then 
failing to backdate it to the correct date. 
IGO4 Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If IGO4 Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms K how much its taken off. It should also give Ms K a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman