DRN-3723636
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) have failed to properly compensate him for 
the harm they caused when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in early September 2022 to explain why I thought Mr Fs 
complaint redress should be altered. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to 
give me. This is an extract from my provisional decision: 
This complaint has been brought by Ms L, Mr Fs daughter, acting with power of attorney for 
Mr F. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Mr F has been the victim of a highly sophisticated 
scam. Between 2019 and 2020 he was tricked into sending money as part of an investment 
scam. The scam was highly sophisticated and involved scam websites purporting to be an 
investment company and the financial regulator, and various different characters. Between 
July 2019 and November 2020, he made 13 international payments from his BoS account, 
which amounted to over £500,000. 
When Mr F and Ms L discovered the scam in December 2020, they reported it to BoS. BoS 
initially declined to refund the losses, but paid Mr F £500 in February 2021 in recognition of 
the levels of service he received. In April 2021, after Mr F and Ms L had come to our service 
and Ms L had conducted her own investigations which she shared with the bank and our 
service, they agreed to refund the losses with interest. Ms L queried the interest paid and 
further interest was paid, along with the fees Mr F had paid to send money abroad. BoS also 
paid a further £500 for the distress and inconvenience they had caused. 
Mr F and Ms L remained dissatisfied. They said that they felt £1,000 did not adequately 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by BoS  and instead said that Mr F should be 
paid £50,000 in recognition of everything that the BoS had put him through due to the errors 
they made. Ms L has provided detailed correspondence on the matter, but to summarise, Ms 
L explained these were: 
Failing to recognise the payments were unusual and out of character for Mr F, 
meaning they didnt intervene or challenge the payments sufficiently and ultimately 
failed to prevent Mr F falling victim to fraud and financial harm; 
Failing to protect Mr Fs interests and assets, and to identify him as a potentially 
vulnerable customer; 
Call handlers who spoke to Mr F on occasion whilst the scam was ongoing, lacked 
empathy, patience and in some cases were downright rude; 
A catalogue of errors after the scam was reported  poor processes and challenges 
which made the complaint almost impossible to deal with; 
Failure to refund the scam funds for about 4.5 months;
Customer service failings including long call waiting times (of up to 50 minutes), 
frequent transfers between departments, lack of proactive communication from BoS, 
and delays allocating their complaint to a case handler, lack of response to calls; 
Failing to correctly record the Power of Attorney, and not telling Ms L they could 
operate under a third party mandate in the meantime which caused delays in Ms L 
being able to act on Mr Fs behalf,
Failing to respond to the polices request for information about the receiving bank, 
thereby hindering their investigation; 
Missing key call recordings in response to the data subject access request Ms L had 
done on behalf of Mr F, which Ms F thinks may have been omitted on purpose; and
Not providing an explanation or apology to her father. 
Ms L said that this had a significant impact on Mr F and his quality of life. She said this was 
entirely preventable and should never have happened. Again, Ms L has provided detailed 
submissions which I have read and considered, but to summarise she explained that: 
Mr F had previously been diagnosed with cancer, which he had been treated for. As 
the scam unfolded, he had further scans and in July 2020 it was confirmed the 
cancer had returned and spread. Mr F restarted treatment in August 2020. He was 
also diagnosed with an additional type of cancer in 2021 which required treatment. 
She explained that it is not entirely unrealistic to suggest that the stress caused by 
the situation have also contributed to the progression of his cancer. 
Mr F had previously had no mental ill health, but in December 2020 Mr F was 
diagnosed with stress and clinical depression. This meant he was put on medication 
which has twice been increased and has required treatment with a psychiatrist. This 
continues to impact his mental health and well-being, meaning Mr F continues to 
have flashbacks and intrusive thoughts. 
Mr F used to hold a shotgun license which required sign off from a general 
practitioner  which he is no longer able to get due to his mental ill health diagnosis. 
This was his one true passion and because of his diagnosis, he voluntarily handed 
his shotgun over to the police in December 2020. 
The whole family have been struggling as a result of what happened to Mr F, which 
has in turn impacted him further. In particular, but not exclusively, this has had a 
significant impact on Ms F and her sister (Mr Fs other daughter)  
-Ms F has suffered from significant levels of stress due to this matter, and the time 
she has had to spend on trying to get it resolved. This meant she had to take two 
months off work and then a phased return to work for 3 weeks. This has in turn 
impacted Mr F as he has felt responsible for this. 
-Mr Fs other daughter was already dealing with a significant trauma and mental ill 
health as a result of this. When the scam came to light, she had to be signed off 
work for 8 weeks and then had 1 month on a phased return to work. Her nervous 
system became deregulated and she was unable to cope  leading to the 
necessity to call the crisis team, be on numerous types of medication, and 
requiring treatment. She had managed to avoid relying on medication after the 
initial trauma but had to go on them after the scam came to light. At a time when 
she should have been focusing on her own healing and well-being, she was 
unable to do so because of what happened to her father. As the bank didnt take 
responsibility, her father has felt responsible for this, too. 
As Ms L and Mr F remained dissatisfied, one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. They said that in their opinion BoS could have and should have done better, but 
that ultimately they thought the repayment of the losses with interest, refunding the 
international payment transaction fees and £1,000 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience they had caused Mr F was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Ms L and Mr F didnt agree. In summary, they said: 
The bank admitted they were at fault and that they could have prevented the scam if 
they had spoken to Mr F at the time of the first and some subsequent payments 
which could have prevented the loss; 
Mr F was subject to 17 months of stress, worry, anxiety, manipulation and suicidal 
thoughts which was entirely unnecessary had the bank taken action in line with its 
code - £1,000 does not reflect the level of unnecessary suffering they should have 
prevented; 
BoS initially declined to refund Mr Fs losses for over 4 months without conducting a 
proper investigation or explaining why. Ms L said this was clearly an attempt to pass 
the blame and was entirely unnecessary. As a result of this, Ms L explained she had 
to spend hundreds of hours conducting an investigation on her fathers behalf, 
without which the correct outcome would not have been reached and his money 
would have never been refunded;
The bank redacted crucial calls from the DSAR which they assume was an attempt to 
sabotage their investigation; 
The bank didnt issue interest, this was only done when requested and then it was 
not the correct amount and required Ms L to go back and insist upon further interest 
and a breakdown of how it had been calculated; 
The bank didnt refund the international transaction charges until requested to do so; 
The bank have a duty of care and need to be held to account to ensure this does not 
happen to other customers. They do not even appear to be aware of their obligations 
to investigate the numerous instances of the breach of the Conduct Rules and a 
requirement to report to the FCA;
BoS only refunded them because of the work of Ms L and the family, and because 
they held their feet to the fire by publicly outing them through contacting the media. 
Ms L did not agree that the banks actions had not caused the harm to her father  
they could have prevented the harm, and the harm was a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of their failings. The bank have a duty of care and need to be held to 
account for their actions, or lack of action. 
Our investigator said they had reviewed everything they had said, but their 
recommendations remained unchanged. As no agreement has been reached, the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
What I have provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I am minded to reach a 
slightly different outcome to our investigator, Ill explain why. 
I have no doubt that Mr F was the victim of a sophisticated and cruel fraud. Before I move 
onto my findings, I would like to say I have been so sorry to read of the circumstances Mr F 
has experienced as a result of this scam. I read the detailed submissions and I understand 
that this matter has had a profound and lasting impact on Mr F, and his family too.  
I would also like to explain that I am aware that I have summarised this complaint briefly, in 
less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. I intend no discourtesy by doing 
so. Instead, I have focused on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If there is 
something I have not mentioned, it isnt because I have ignored it  I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every single argument or point to be able to reach what I consider 
to be the fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this  it simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
As the financial losses from the scam have been refunded, including interest and 
reimbursement for the international transaction charges, I will not be going into this matter in 
detail. All that is relevant of this now is that it is not in dispute between either party that BoS 
should have done more to intervene and they could, almost certainly, have prevented the 
loss occurring if they had done so. I also do not think it is in dispute that BoS should have 
refunded the losses sooner. 
What remains in dispute is whether the £1,000 already paid represents a fair and reasonable 
compensatory award in recognition of the non-financial harm Mr F suffered as a result of 
BoSs failings  the pain and suffering he has experienced, as well as the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. So, the question I must consider is the extent to which BoS 
can be considered liable for the harm that Mr F suffered, and having done so, I am minded 
to reach a different conclusion than our investigator did. Based on the evidence available to 
me I am thinking of saying that BoS ought to pay Mr F £2,000 for the pain and suffering, and 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F. This is not the £50,000 that Ms L and Mr F 
requested  and I am sorry as I know how deeply this will disappoint them, as well as their 
wider family. I do, however, think that £1,000 does not sufficiently reflect the harm caused by 
BoS. I will explain my current thinking on this matter. 
I agree with our investigator that the primary cause of the harm was the scammers 
themselves. But I also think that BoS should have taken further steps to question what was 
happening sooner, and this would have reduced or prevented Mr Fs losses. I do believe 
their failings contributed to the scammers being able to trick Mr F into sending so much 
money to them. So, I think it was fair and reasonable that they refunded the losses, charges 
and interest. 
Considering the impact of their mistakes  their failure to take proper action contributed to 
the extreme worry and impact on Mr Fs health when he realised he had lost the money as 
the result of the scam. I also recognise that it was not until the robust arguments made by 
Ms L on behalf of Mr F including her correspondence with the bank, the media and our 
service, that BoS refunded the losses  and even then the full interest wasnt paid until Ms L 
pointed out that the calculations did not appear to be correct. There were also customer 
service failings throughout the scam and after it was reported  which I do not think are in 
dispute. 
The uncertainty of not knowing that Mr F would get this money back for over four months 
after the scam added to the substantial amount of distress Mr F was experiencing. So, whilst 
the harm was originally caused by the scammers, I think it is fair to say that BoS contributed 
to the decline in Mr Fs mental health. The sums lost to the scammers were Mr F and his 
wifes life savings, and I think it is fair to conclude that the uncertainty over whether these 
were lost forever would have caused and extreme impact on Mr F. I understand he felt that 
as BoS were denying any liability, he felt he was to blame which clearly took a huge toll on 
Mr F. 
Mr F has had to be treated and medicated for clinical depression  a condition he had never 
had before. This has also meant he has lost the ability to undertake a beloved hobby due to 
the removal of his shotgun license. I am not a medical expert by any means  so I am 
unable to say whether the stress did in fact contribute to the progression of Mr Fs cancer, 
but I do recognise that cancer is an incredibly stressful thing to happen to someone, and so 
dealing with the fallout from the scam at the same time must have been incredibly difficult. It 
is of note that Mr F had cancer previously, and didnt have to take medication or receive 
treatment for his mental health at the time  so I am satisfied that the scam played a 
substantial role in his declining mental health. As our investigator explained, I cannot award money to, nor in recognition of harm done to 
Mr Fs family members who were impacted as a result of this scam  this is because it is Mr 
F who has a relationship with BoS and not them. So, my role is to decide on the dispute 
between Mr F and BoS only. But I recognise that witnessing the harm caused to his loved 
ones would have compounded some of the harm done to him  I understand from Ms Ls 
submissions that he has blamed himself for what has happened to his family. And this is 
something I have taken into account. This is particularly so, given the trauma one of his 
daughters had recently been through. I dont doubt that as a father his mental ill health would 
have been worsened by seeing the amount of time, effort and emotional energy his family 
put into this complaints process. 
I have very carefully considered all of this when trying to decide what a fair and reasonable 
figure would be to compensate Mr F for the harm caused by BoS. It is difficult in cases of 
scams  as I said before I maintain that the scammers should be considered the primary 
cause of a great deal of the pain and suffering Mr F experienced. But I do think that in this 
case, BoS made some substantial errors and some of the difficulties Mr F experienced were 
worsened as a conceivable consequence of these errors. It is also of note that our service is 
an informal alternative to the courts, and we are not designed to award punitive damages  
we are not here to punish financial businesses. So, I think that a total of £2,000 should be 
paid to Mr F (deducting anything that has already been paid). Whilst I know no amount of 
money will undo the harm that Mr F has suffered, I think this is a suitable figure in 
recognition of the mistakes and their resulting sustained distress and impact on Mr Fs 
health. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr F a further £1,000 in 
recognition of the pain and suffering, distress and inconvenience caused by their failings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as I was minded to reach in my 
provisional decision, and for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why. 
I did not receive any further comments or evidence from BoS following on from my 
provisional decision. Ms L, on behalf of Mr F, did provide a detailed response. In summary, it 
said: 
The avoidable harm that occurred after the scam came to light was attributable to 
BoS; 
BoS didnt properly investigate the matter before issuing their outcome which 
compounded the distress already suffered of their vulnerable customer; 
BoS have never acknowledged their failings or said what steps have been put in 
place to ensure that no other customer comes to similar harm despite their failures 
causing a moral injury to Mr F and his family; 
Mr F and his family would like to see BoS has been given some kind of formal 
reprimand or improvement notice by its regulator in relation to the failures that 
occurred in this case, and for them to evidence that they are making tangible 
improvements to their systems to ensure that no other customer will go through any 
or all of the failings that Mr F had to endure; 
Without a payment that reflects the gravity of the harm caused there does not appear  
to be an incentive for the bank to behave responsibly, or to modify its behaviour; With all of this in mind, Ms L said that they did not agree that £2,000 adequately reflected the 
gravity of the harm caused. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms L said on behalf of Mr F. And I do understand why they 
would remain dissatisfied  the level of harm in this case has clearly caused profound and 
lasting damage to Mr F and his family. But I think an important matter to note here is the 
remit of this service. We are not here to punish financial businesses  and nor can we 
provide any kind of formal reprimand. We look to try and put things right in specific cases. I 
can appreciate the strength of feeling that BoS should be forced to pay a higher 
compensatory award, but nothing in the most recent submission has given me cause to alter 
my thinking which I detailed in my provisional decision, nor the award I thought was 
appropriate in this case. So I will be telling BoS that they are to pay an additional £1,000 to 
Mr F in recognition of the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering caused in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr F a further £1,000 in 
recognition of the pain and suffering, distress and inconvenience caused by their failings in 
this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman