DRN-4386765
The complaint
B, a limited company, is unhappy with ClearBank Limited trading as Tide (Tide) as it wont 
refund the money it lost as a result of falling victim to a scam.
Mr T, as the director of B, brought the complaint to our service with the help of a professional 
representative. As Mr T fell victim to the scam, for ease I have referred to him throughout 
this decision. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
On 12 January 2023, Mr T received a message which appeared in a chain of other text 
messages hed received from Tide (known as smishing), which provided a one-time 
passcode (OTP) for an attempted transaction which he hadnt made. 
Mr T contacted the number given in the message, as it instructed him to do if the transaction 
wasnt one hed made. Unbeknown to Mr T at the time, he was in fact speaking with a 
fraudster. Mr T says he was asked security questions which were similar to those he is 
usually asked to verify himself to the banks. He explained he was told his account was at 
risk and hed need to move his funds to a new account. Mr T followed the fraudsters 
instructions. Mr T adds that the new account details were sent to him within the thread of 
messages from Tide. 
Mr T told us he transferred savings into the account and then proceeded to make the 
payments as instructed. Mr T says he initially made a payment of £1 and then a further 
payment of £8,882.92 to the new account details provided. 
Mr T explained he was then placed on hold and the call was subsequently disconnected. He 
called the number again and says he reached a different person to the one he initially spoke 
to, and he was again asked security details. Mr T said he initially felt reassured by this. It 
suggested a typical office environment, but he added that he grew suspicious. 
Mr T says he attempted to contact Tide by phone but when it wasnt possible, he used the 
online chat function, and it was at this point that he realised hed fallen victim to a scam. Tide 
didnt agree to reimburse Mr T. It said once notified of the scam, it had done everything it 
could do to recover Mr Ts money  unfortunately only £8.33 was recovered from the 
receiving account. Mr T was unhappy and so he raised a complaint.  
 
Tide did not uphold the complaint. In its final response letter of 9 February 2023, it said it 
isnt subscribed to the voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It 
recognised Mr T had fallen victim to a smishing scam whereby scammers mask the 
number theyre using as the one at the back of the Tide card and why the messages show 
on the text message thread with Tide. Tide added that Mr T received a Confirmation of 
Payee (CoP) warning when the new payee was added and that a message with a OTP was 
also sent to authorise the payee which provided a warning. It considered these should have 
constituted enough warnings for Mr T to have suspicions raised - as the scam was exactly 
what it was being warned about. Tide also didnt think it had missed any opportunities to 
intervene. Further, it says it attempted to recover the money from the receiving bank (the 
account the funds were sent to) in a reasonable time of being notified of the scam, but only 
£8.33 was recoverable. 
Dissatisfied, Mr T brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
the matter and upheld the complaint. She felt the £8,882.92 payment Mr T made was 
suspicious compared to previous account activity and, on this basis, Tide should have 
contacted Mr T for more information. She felt, if it had, the scam would have unravelled. She 
noted the sophistication of the scam and considered Mr Ts actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, she recommended Tide reimburse the remainder of the payment along 
with 8% simple interest. 
Tide didnt fully agree. In its response it said while it concurs that it should have stopped the 
payment, there were three transactions from 2020 which it says were higher than the scam 
payment that it felt should be taken into consideration. 
Tide added that the action taken by Mr T prior to the payment also needed to be considered 
 in particular, it said it displayed a relevant warning and the CoP check showed the account 
name didnt match. With this in mind, Tide felt liability should be shared and agreed to 
reimburse 50% of the payment. 
Mr T didnt agree with Tides offer and maintained he should be fully reimbursed for his loss. 
  
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
The starting position under the relevant regulations is that B is generally liable for authorised 
transactions. Its common ground that these payments were authorised and so B is 
presumed liable at first instance. However, good industry practice required that Tide be on 
the lookout for account activity that was out of character or unusual to the extent that it might 
be indicative of a fraud risk. On identifying such activity, Id expect it to take reasonable 
steps to protect its customer from that risk.
The Investigator found that the payment of £8,882.92 ought to have caused Tide concern 
and I agree with that conclusion. Looking at the previous account activity in the year prior to 
the scam I consider the payment Mr T made here to be significantly higher in value than 
previous payments. I accept there were higher payments in 2020, but that isnt indicative of 
typical account activity in 2023. It follows that Im persuaded Tide ought to have identified a 
risk and that it ought fairly and reasonably to have made enquiries with Mr T to ensure that B 
wasnt at risk of fraud. Tide has accepted this point. Had it done so, Im satisfied the scam likely wouldve unravelled. I say this because Mr T 
doesnt appear to have been prepared by the fraudster to respond to any such challenge in a 
specific way. If Tide asked Mr T why he was making the payment, there is no reason for me 
to think he wouldnt have answered honestly. With this in mind, I think it is more likely than 
not that the scam wouldve quickly come to light.
Tide has raised that Mr T received a CoP warning that said the account details didnt match 
and it also pointed out that the wording of the one-time passcode text sent to Mr T made it 
clear that Tide would never call asking for funds to be moved. It highlights the warning holds 
significant relevance here and that Mr T should share some responsibility for the loss. Ive 
thought carefully about this and whether I think Mr Ts actions or inactions fell below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person. 
Based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded Mr T ought fairly and 
reasonably be held liable for falling victim to this scam. I say this because, Mr T received a 
message within a thread of messages that included genuine ones from Tide. Tide itself has 
said Mr T fell victim to a smishing scam whereby scammers disguise the number as a 
legitimate one and insert the messages in an existing thread. I find this is a powerful 
deception to convince a customer that what theyve received originated from the genuine 
company being impersonated.
Further, while I note Tides reference to the wording within the one-time passcode text about 
Tide never calling to ask for funds to be moved, Im mindful that this is not what happened 
here. Mr T received a message providing an OTP code for an attempted transaction which 
he hadnt made. Following this, Mr T called the number provided and spoke with whom he 
believed to be the genuine Tide  he hadnt received a call from anyone purporting to be 
Tide. So, I dont think this would have fully resonated with Mr T at the time. Mr T also 
referred to the fraudster creating a sense of urgency and the need to protect his money. In 
the circumstances described in this case, I find what Mr T has said to be plausible. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr T received the new account details within the same 
thread of messages  again amongst genuine messages from Tide. Mr T says this 
reassured him that hed received the message from Tide, and it was safe. He added that, 
when he was directed to set up the new account the fraudster said that as it was Bs 
account, he could choose what it was called. So, Mr T called it B and when making the 
payment also put B as the reference.    
I accept that in the cold light of day, Mr T might be expected to react differently. But in that 
specific moment, and in that false environment the fraudster had created, I dont find it 
unreasonable that Tides wording in the text message or the CoP didnt have the same 
impact on him - when set against what hed received in the text message thread and was 
being told over the phone by someone he believed to be from Tides own fraud team.
All things considered; I dont find I can fairly say Mr T acted unreasonably. I think he has 
done what a reasonable person would have done in the same situation. As such, I dont 
think it is fair to conclude that B should share liability with Tide for the loss that resulted.
Ive also considered whether Tide did everything it needed to do once it became aware of 
the scam. Ive seen that Tide contacted the bank that operated the fraudsters account in an 
attempt to recover Bs money  but unfortunately, only £8.33 was recovered. 
Putting things right
I require ClearBank Limited trading as Tide to: Reimburse Mr T the scam payment of £8,882.92 (minus the amount already 
recovered and paid). 
It should also add 8% simple interest per year to that sum calculated from the date of 
the payment to the date the settlement is paid. 
* If ClearBank Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest award, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also 
provide a tax deduction certificate if Mr T asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM 
Revenue & Customs where appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. 
ClearBank Limited should settle the matter as set out above within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Bs acceptance of my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman