DRN-2688178
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) registered a default on his card account.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card from HSBC. In February 2018, HSBC sent him a Notice of Default. 
On 31 October 2018, HSBC registered the default on his credit file.
Mr W complained that HSBC didnt send him any letters saying he was in default, or that the 
default would be registered. When he received letters saying he was in arrears, he settled it 
straight away. He now had the entry on his credit file, and this was hindering him from 
getting credit.
HSBC said that Mr W received monthly statements showing his balance and how much he 
needed to pay. He was sent a Notice of Default on 26 February 2018. On 31 October 2018, 
with the arrears at £90, the default was registered on Mr Ws credit file. HSBC had a duty to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Mr W had been falling in 
and out of arrears since June 2017. Mr W was sent monthly statements showing his 
balances and repayments. He considered that HSBC were within their rights to register the 
default on Mr Ws credit file.
Mr W didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then 
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put 
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. 
I can see that over a fairly long period of time, Mr W was in and out of arrears on his card 
account with HSBC. It looks like he missed a lot of payments  and then, on several 
occasions, he paid in to clear most of the arrears. But the arrears then built up again. Ive 
looked specifically at what happened in 2018  the period in question.
Mr Ws minimum payments to his account were £30 per month. In February 2018, Mr W was 
£92 in arrears  three months payments - and so HSBC sent to him a Notice of Default. After 
that, Mr W paid in money so that the arrears were reduced to £51 in June 2018. And then 
they reduced to £29 in August 2018 and September 2018. But  payments then stopped 
again so in October 2018, the arrears increased again to £90  three months overdue.
Given the guidance from the ICO, HSBC were correct in registering the default on Mr Ws 
credit file.
Mr W says that he wasnt aware the default was going to be registered  HSBC didnt tell 
him. So, Ive looked at what happened. The Notice of Default sent to Mr W on 26 February 
2018 was sent to his address in HSBCs records. This was the same as Mr Ws statements 
were sent  and hes told us that he received those. So, it seems fair to say that the Notice 
of Default was received by Mr W. This said The filing of such notice of default can be 
avoided by the payment of at least 50% of your contractual payment ofon or before your 
next scheduled repayment date of  and regularly by the same due date monthly 
thereafter. Please note, that any failure to make your next, or any subsequent payments, on 
or before your scheduled due dates, whether you have advised us or not that payments may 
be made late i.e. after your scheduled due date, will result in a notice of default being filed 
with one or more Credit Reference Agencies. What this meant was that  even if Mr W paid 
in money (as he did) after the Notice of Default, if he fell into arrears again  then HSBC 
could then register the default at any time in the future. And thats what happened  on 31 
October 2018, when he was three months in arrears. They didnt need to write to him again 
before doing that. I accept that Mr W might find that harsh, but I cant say that HSBC acted 
incorrectly in what they did.
Ive also looked at Mr Ws statements. These do show when payments had been missed and 
included warnings about non-payment. The statements in April 2018, August 2018, and 
October 2018 said You have failed to make a minimum paymentfailing to make a 
minimum payment can mean that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement and 
could result in us taking legal action against you. It could lead to your having to pay 
additional costs and make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in future
The May 2018, June 2018, July 2018 and September 2018 statements also said Mr W was 
between one and two months in arrears.
Mr W told us that he received his statements  so he would have seen his balances, arrears 
information and the warnings on them.
So  overall, I have to say that HSBC were correct in registering the default on Mr Ws credit 
file and sent Mr W sufficient communications and notice of what they intended to do. I can 
see that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do 
anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman