DRN-2641887
The complaint
Ms W complains that Countrywide Assurance Plc declined her total and permanent disability 
(TPD) claim and voided her insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2002 Ms W set up a life and critical illness policy with a firm that Countrywide has since 
acquired liability for. The policy provides decreasing cover over a 25-year term, with the 
initial sum assured being £75,000. 
Ms W has been diagnosed with fibromyalgia and, in 2015, she contacted Countrywide to 
make a TPD claim under the policy. Countrywide declined the claim in August 2017. Ms W 
complained about this and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator thought 
Countrywide had fairly declined the claim as, at the point they considered it (and her 
complaint), not all treatment options had been completed and so the condition couldnt be 
deemed permanent. He did however recommend that when reassessing the claim, due to 
Ms W having since gone through a pain management programme, Countrywide should use 
a different examiner to the one used for the initial independent medical examination. 
In January 2019 Ms W underwent a functional capacity evaluation (FCE), which was carried 
out by a different assessor. And, in May 2019, Countrywide declined Ms Ws TPD claim for a 
second time. They said the FCE report showed multiple inconsistencies and that the 
assessor confirmed the evaluation couldnt be used to infer any barriers from Ms W 
undertaking any of the activities according to the policys TPD criteria. Countywide also said 
they had incontrovertible evidence showing Ms W wasnt disabled to the extent that she had 
sought to present. Because of this, Countrywide voided the policy and arranged for the 
premiums paid since the FCE to be refunded. 
Ms W complained about this but Countrywides position didnt change. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator acknowledged that surveillance 
footage seemed to show Ms W moving/walking more easily on the days either side of the 
FCE than on the day of it. But he didnt consider it to be incontrovertible evidence that Ms W 
had sought to present being more disabled than she is. This is because Ms W admits to 
having good days and bad days and he felt the footage failed to show her doing anything 
she claims shes unable to do, or that would exceed the criteria for a TPD claim. And so, he 
thought Countrywide had acted unfairly by voiding the policy. 
But, our investigator didnt think Countrywide had acted unfairly by declining the claim. While 
the FCE showed Ms W may be unable to perform three of the activities, the investigator 
thought there was insufficient evidence to show shed be permanently unable to do so. He 
also noted the assessors report referred to testing on functionality that isnt applicable to the 
TPD policy criteria. But, while he acknowledged Ms Ws concerns about the 
accuracy/contents of the report, he thought it was reasonable for Countrywide to rely on it 
when considering the claim. He also thought it was significant that the assessor suggested 
Ms W performed with poor effort or reliability. And so, taking this as well as the concerns 
around Ms Ws level of functionality in light of the surveillance footage in to account, he 
thought there was insufficient evidence to show Ms W is permanently unable to carry out the 
TPD activities. 
He recommended Countrywide reinstate the policy, pay £200 compensation to Ms W and 
come to an arrangement to bring the missed premiums back up to date (factoring in the 
compensation if this is required). Further, he thought Countrywide should arrange for a 
further assessment of Ms Ws functionality (in relation to the TPD criteria) but that this should 
be carried out by someone suitability qualified in respect of fibromyalgia. 
Countrywide didnt agree with our investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that this 
complaint is only in relation to Ms Ws claim being declined for a second time, along with her 
policy being voided. I therefore wont be revisiting Countrywides decision to decline the 
claim on the first occasion as it has already been considered by our service in October 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether Countrywide has acted fairly by voiding Ms Ws policy. I 
understand the surveillance footage of Ms W was central to Countrywides decision. Ive 
therefore considered this very carefully. Having done so, Im not persuaded it demonstrates 
Ms W set out to mislead Countrywide in respect of her level of disability. Let me explain why.
The surveillance footage of Ms Ws movement is limited. Nevertheless, I accept there is a 
clear difference in her mobility on the days either side of the FCE than the day itself. I think 
its relatively clear the footage shows her moving slower on the day of the FCE and that she 
is at times reliant on a walking stick. However, although I know Countrywide disagrees, Im 
not convinced it shows shes able to carry out the three activities  as per the policy terms  
that she failed as part of the FCE. For the avoidance of any doubt, the relevant policy terms 
and activities here are:
Total & Permanent Disability (TPD)
A permanent inability to perform independently three or more of the activities of daily 
work as detailed below, with or without the use of mechanical equipment, special 
devices or other aids. Confirmation must be received by a consultant physician and 
be supported by the Companys Chief Medical Officer. 
Walking  You cannot walk a distance of more than 200 metres on flat ground 
without stopping.
Climbing  You cannot walk up and down a flight of 12 stairs with the use of the 
handrail within 90 seconds. 
Standing  You are unable to stand, with the aid of a walking stick if necessary, for 
more than 10 minutes before needing to sit. Ive noted that the FCE assessor has said that there is a clear disparity between Ms Ws 
reported and demonstrated level of disability during the FCE assessment, and her actual 
capabilities as observed in the footage. And that he goes on to explain, in his opinion, that 
the DVD footage wholly concurs with the FCE conclusions that Ms Ws demonstrated 
functional abilities cannot represent her true capabilities, and I can only therefore conclude 
that her actual abilities are greater than she was willing to demonstrate during the FCE.
While Ive taken the assessors opinion in to consideration, the limited surveillance footage 
doesnt evidence Ms W carrying out any of the above activities. I also consider it relevant 
that the assessors response to the footage makes little reference to fibromyalgia. And Ms W 
openly admits that the condition, as well as other conditions she suffers from, impacts her 
level mobility differently from one day to the next  as some days are better than others. 
Ms W has also explained she doesnt always use a walking stick as it depends on the level 
of pain she is experiencing on that day. And that its also dependant on the condition of her 
hands as she suffers from ichthyosis (which can lead to splitting and cracking of the skin) 
making it difficult to grab or hold at times. 
I also consider it relevant that the surveillance footage shows Ms W returning from the FCE 
by exiting the taxi and walking to her home. Her mobility is similar to that seen throughout 
the day but, as already stated, different to the days either side of it. So, it appears her level 
of mobility remained consistent on the day of the FCE even when out of sight of the 
assessor. And, given theres nothing to suggest Ms W knew she was being surveilled (as if 
she did then I wouldve expected her to have maintained reduced movement the following 
day as a precaution), I consider it more likely than not that she wasnt attempting to 
deliberately misrepresent her true capabilities.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded the surveillance footage sufficiently demonstrates 
that Ms W has attempted to mislead Countrywide to think shes more disabled than she 
actually is. 
I have however given further consideration to the FCE report in relation to the activities and 
tests Ms W carried out. In this, the assessor says:
a review of the FCE results indicate that she performed with very poor reliability of 
effort and there was evidence of significant symptom exaggeration. This conclusion 
is based on a number of inconsistencies and discrepancies demonstrated by [Ms W] 
throughout the day
One of main inconsistencies found by the assessor was Ms Ws performance in relation to 
the grip strength and palmer pinch testing she undertook. Ms W strongly refutes she 
performed with poor reliability of effort. And she says the assessor gave no consideration to 
the other health conditions that affect her during the evaluation. 
While Ive considered the assessors concerns in this respect, having read the report, there 
doesnt seem to be any reference to how Ms Ws ichthyosis condition can affect her grip or 
pinch strength. Further to this, and while this wasnt known to Countrywide at the time of the 
claim being considered, Ms W has confirmed that shes since been diagnosed with 
rheumatoid arthritis. She says this gives her great difficulty in completing these evaluations 
as it affects her ability to grip, stand and climb. And so, I think this could further explain the 
discrepancies found. I therefore think that, without this condition being known and taken into 
consideration, that it would be unfair to void the policy based on these results at this time. 
There are also other concerns raised by the assessor in his report. But, having considered 
these, I think there are inconsistencies or reasons to question some of the conclusions the assessor has reached. For example, the assessor said, there was no evidence of any 
muscle wasting in either upper or lower limbs. Ms Ws medical records however show she 
has previously suffered from muscle wasting of the vastus medialis oblique muscles in both 
knees  with physiotherapy recommended to target these muscles and the quadriceps in 
general. And Ms W says at no point during the evaluation was she asked to show her limbs 
for them to be assessed, nor is it recorded this happened. So, while I accept this may have 
been a general observation made by the assessor, I think it would be unfair to rely upon this 
when considering Ms Ws claim.
Furthermore, the assessors report  in relation to the reported severe pain levels from Ms W 
- says that there were no organic signs (breathlessness, sweating or constant agitation) 
normally associated with these levels of pain, thus indicating evidence of significant 
symptom exaggeration during the assessment. And also goes on to explain Ms Ws post-
FCE pain level as being lower than at the start of the FCE, which he considers inappropriate 
as one would expect an increase in pain due to the battery of the physical tests undertaken. 
Again, while Ive noted the assessors concerns, Ms W strongly denies exaggerating her 
pain levels. And I think if she was trying to deceive the assessor then I wouldve expected 
her to have reported consistently high pain levels. So, the fact Ms W reported her pain levels 
as lower at the end of the FCE suggests an effort on her part of be in honest during the 
evaluation. Ms W has also explained that due to always being in pain the signs of it arent 
always shown and that she has, as others suffering from fibromyalgia do, learnt to hide it. 
She further adds that she was heavily medicated on that day, as she is every day, and so 
this affects how others see her. 
Ive also looked at how Ms Ws pain levels were recorded both before and after the FCE. 
The first pain rating was recorded on a numerical basis with a 0-10 pain rating scale - Ms W 
recorded her pain rating as nine. The post FCE pain rating however was recorded on a 
visual analogy scale  so marked on a line between no pain and pain as bad as it could 
possibly be. Ms W recorded her pain rating towards the upper end of this scale. If the pain 
rating Ms W marked on the scale was applied on a numerical basis then it would be the 
equivalent of approximately 8. That said, I think the use of two different pain rating methods 
is inconsistent and that, given the closeness of the pain ratings, it would be unfair to say 
Ms W deliberately overexaggerated her pain levels at that time. 
Given the above, and while I should note that I dont dispute or challenge the validity of the 
entire FCE report, Im likewise not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
Ms W mis-led Countrywide in to thinking shes more disabled than she actually is. It 
therefore follows that I think Countrywide should reinstate Ms Ws policy. 
This now brings me to whether Countrywide has fairly considered Ms Ws claim. 
Ms W was unable to perform three of the activities, as required under the policy terms for a 
TPD claim, during the FCE. And so, on this basis, it could be argued that Ms W has met the 
relevant criteria for the claim to be paid. However, the terms of the policy clearly set out Ms 
W must be totally and permanently unable to perform the activities. So, Ive considered if 
thats the case here.
The three activities Ms W was unable to perform are related to her mobility  walking, 
climbing stairs and standing. But, while the surveillance doesnt show any evidence of 
Ms Ws ability to climb stairs, it does suggest that her level of functionality is at times greater 
than she demonstrated on the day of the FCE. For example, during the FCE Ms W couldnt 
walk more than five metres or stand for longer than two minutes. Whereas on the day 
preceding the FCE Ms W is seen to walk further than this without the aid of a walking stick. So, taking this and the concerns raised by the assessor about Ms Ws capabilities into 
account, I think theres sufficient doubt as to whether Ms W is totally and permanently unable 
to perform the activities as she may be able to do so on her better days. For this reason, Im 
not persuaded theres enough evidence to show that Ms W met the TPD policy criteria for a 
claim to be paid. 
However, as a result of their decision to void the policy, it seems Countrywide didnt consider 
Ms Ws ability to carry out the activities beyond the day of the FCE. And, from what Ive 
seen, there doesnt appear to have been any opinion sought from Ms Ws treating 
consultant(s) in respect of the FCE report and if their views on Ms Ws capabilities are 
consistent with those of the assessor. Because of this, I dont think Ms Ws functionality  
and whether she was permanently unable to perform three or more of the activities - was 
fully assessed as part of the claims process. 
In these circumstances, I think it would be fairest for a further assessment of Ms Ws 
functionality be carried out. Given the complexity of fibromyalgia, I think it would be 
preferable for this to be carried out by, or in conjunction with, a specialist in this field. I 
consider involving someone who specialises in fibromyalgia will help provide a greater level 
of understanding of Ms Ws level of functionality and the permanency of it  including how 
this can change day to day. Ms Ws other conditions, such as her recent rheumatoid arthritis 
diagnosis, should also be given appropriate consideration. Id also encourage Countrywide 
to seek the medical opinion of Ms Ws treating consultants as part of this process.
Ive noted Countrywides view that a further assessment wouldnt be appropriate as they 
consider Ms W will likely disagree with the findings of it, as she has done for the previous 
two that have been carried out. However, given I consider Countrywide has unfairly voided 
the policy, Ms W is entitled to make a claim and Countrywide is required to give it fair 
consideration. And while Ive noted the concerns raised by Countrywide in respect of Ms Ws 
true capability, that is why I consider a further assessment is appropriate in order to fully 
assess it (and whether Ms W meets the TPD criteria or not). 
For the above reasons, I think Countrywide should reinstate the policy and come to an 
arrangement with Ms W for her to pay the missed premiums since it was voided. I consider 
the unfair voidance of the policy wouldve been worrying to Ms W and so, to recognise the 
impact of this on her, I agree with out investigator that £200 compensation would be a fair 
amount. Countrywide can offset this compensation against the missed premiums when 
reinstating the policy.
Countrywide should also arrange a further assessment of Ms Ws functional capabilities in 
respect of the activities as set out under the policy terms for a TPD claim. This should ideally 
be carried out by, or in conjunction with, a fibromyalgia specialist.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Countrywide Assurance Plc 
to:
Reinstate Ms Ws policy.
Come to an arrangement with Ms W to bring the missed premiums up to date.
Pay Ms W £200 compensation (this can be offset against the missed premiums).
Arrange a further assessment of Ms Ws functional capabilities in respect of the 
activities as set out under the policy terms for a TPD claim. This should ideally be 
carried out by, or in conjunction with, a fibromyalgia specialist.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman