DRN-3640330
The complaint
A company Ill call F complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as FDMS (First Data 
Merchant Solutions) (First Data) unfairly declined to refund transactions it says it didnt 
authorise.
F is represented by its director, Mr V.
What happened
Between December 2020 and March 2021, one of Fs employees (X) fraudulently processed 
false refunds totalling £3,322.89. Mr V said X had reset the system after hours so the 
refunds didnt show the next day. And that he only discovered the fraud when X forgot to 
reset the system one day. Mr V says X was a long-term employee and hadnt been given 
permission to make the transactions.
Mr V complained to First Data, saying he thought transactions should only be processed to 
the value of an initial purchase, meaning First Data should have prevented the refunds. He 
also felt that First Data wasnt providing enough assistance to the Police to help the ongoing 
criminal enquiries. First Data issued its final response to Fs complaint on 30 March 2021. It 
said it couldnt refund the transactions because staff fraud was involved and the matter had 
been reported to the Police. And it confirmed the requested documentation had been sent to 
the Police. 
Mr V didnt agree, so he brought Fs complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint in part. She said First Data should issue a refund because she wasnt persuaded 
F had authorised the transactions. But she felt F had to accept some of the blame, because 
Mr V hadnt checked monthly statements issued by First Data that showed the refunds.
Mr V didnt agree. He said he hadnt received the statements, despite chasing First Data for 
them, so he didnt accept any responsibility for the loss. Our investigator asked Mr V to send 
in evidence to show he had chased First Data for statements, but Mr V didnt submit 
anything. 
First Data also disagreed. It said it shouldnt be held liable as this was employee fraud and it 
felt the Payments Services Regulations had been superseded by criminal law. It said it 
intended to make further submissions, but it ultimately didnt do so.
Because neither party accepted our investigators findings, the matter came to me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out the regulatory framework at play in this situation in detail, so Ill 
simply summarise the key points in this decision.
Assisting the Police
Ive seen an email thread between First Data and Mr V in which he requested various 
documents to be sent to the Police. While First Data wasnt able to send the information 
straight back in that thread, it gave Mr V guidance on how he could obtain the information by 
following First Datas process. The information sought was not a simple request and I cant 
say First Data treated F unfairly by not complying with Mr Vs specific request, given it 
followed its own procedure.
Authorisation
Its not disputed that the transactions in question were processed by a party without Fs 
express authority. However, First Data argues that X was effectively given authority to make 
the transactions, because X was given access to the card and terminal. And because F 
didnt take sufficient steps to prevent employee fraud. And it set out the steps F could have 
taken.
Ive seen correspondence between F and the Police and I accept F didnt directly authorise 
the refunds in question. With that being said, what First Data is effectively raising is the 
principle of apparent authority. That is to say that F permitted X to appear to First Data as if 
H had Fs authority to make the transactions. And, if I were to accept that argument, First 
Data wouldnt be liable to refund F.
However, apparent authority cant be given negligently, and so Im not persuaded that the 
principle applies in this case. Mr V has explained that X snuck in after hours and processed 
the refunds without anyone around, then wiped the system to cover his tracks. Because of 
the dishonest and clandestine nature of the circumstances of this particular case, Im not 
satisfied apparent authority applies. So, I consider that the transactions were unauthorised.
Gross negligence
First Datas other argument that F didnt take sufficient steps to prevent the fraud from 
happening amounts to a defence of gross negligence. That is to say that F failed with gross 
negligence to comply with its obligations as a payment service user, and that allowed the 
disputed transactions to take place. 
First Data says F had the option to setup a security code, meaning only a supervisor could 
process refunds. And that its Merchant Operating Guide (Guide) provided guidance on how 
to prevent fraud that F should have followed. However, the test for gross negligence has a 
high bar and simple carelessness doesnt relieve a payment service user of its right to a 
refund.
Most of the advice contained in the Guide doesnt apply to the circumstances of this 
particular case, with the exception of the suggestion that daily checks are carried out to 
ensure the device hasnt been tampered with. Im not persuaded that failing to undertake 
daily checks amounts to gross negligence, given the system was wiped each evening by a 
trusted, long-term employee. 
And I dont accept that failing to set a security code amounts to gross negligence either. It 
would have been advisable for F to set a security code, and doing so might have prevented 
this fraud if the code was only known by Mr V. But that falls some way short of the 
requirement for me to make a finding of gross negligence. 
Contributory negligenceWith all of the above being said, I agree with First Data that some responsibility should fall 
on Fs shoulders on this occasion. Ive seen dated statements that First Data says it sent, 
which would have alerted Mr V to the fraud, had he checked them. Mr V says he didnt 
receive these and that he had called First Data on several occasions to chase them. Our 
investigator gave Mr V the opportunity to demonstrate he had tried to chase the statements, 
for example sending in a screenshot of his phone displaying the call he says he made to 
First Data, but he didnt do so. So, based on the evidence I have before me Im satisfied that 
First Data did issue the statements, and I havent seen evidence to persuade me that Mr V 
didnt receive them.
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not satisfied that the transactions in dispute were 
authorised and I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that F was grossly 
negligent, such that it would be liable for the transactions. But I take the view that F could 
have done more, so I agree with our investigator that F should share some of the loss here 
and I agree that a 50/50 split is fair. First Data should also compensate F for the time it went 
without that money by paying simple interest at a rate of 8%.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Data Europe Limited trading as First Data Merchant Solutions 
must pay F £1,661.45 plus simple interest at the rate of 8% from the date F raised its 
complaint to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman