DRN-4211509
The complaint
Mr H complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited recorded another drivers 
claim against his motor insurance policy. He wants Watford to close the claim and reimburse 
him for his increased premium.
What happened
Another drivers insurer notified Watford that Mr H had been involved in an incident. Mr H 
denied involvement and so Watford opened a claim and defended his position. Watford 
closed the claim after a year due to lack of contact from the other insurer. The other insurer 
then said it had dashcam evidence and so Watford reopened the claim so it could 
investigate it and defend Mr H. The footage didnt show that Mr H had been involved. But the 
claim remained open and Mr Hs premium with another insurer increased. Watford said it 
would close the claim when the other insurer dropped the claim. Mr H was unhappy with this.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Watford needed to have an open claim so it could defend Mr Hs position. She thought once 
the claim was closed, Watford would remove records of the claim and Mr H could ask his 
new insurer to rerate his premium.
Mr H replied that the claim had increased his premium by £1,000 and he wanted this 
reimbursed. He said he was being penalised for something he wasnt to blame for. And he 
said this had been going on for two years. Watford replied that the claim had now been 
closed and removed from external and internal databases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H feels frustrated that it took over two years for the claim to be 
closed when he had provided evidence that he wasnt involved in the incident. In the 
meantime, his new insurer increased his premium and I can understand that Mr H wants this 
refunded. 
When Watford received a claim against Mr Hs policy, it was obliged to open a claim and 
investigate it. I can see that Mr H co-operated with the investigation. And Watford used his 
evidence to deny his involvement in the incident. 
But the other insurer maintained that it had dashcam evidence to show Mr Hs involvement. 
And when Watford received this, it was obliged to reopen the claim so that it could 
investigate it. This is in keeping with standard industry practice, and so I cant say that 
Watford did anything wrong in this. 
It took some time for the claim to be finally closed. But from what I can see, Watford 
defended Mr Hs position and was waiting for the other insurers response. I can see that it 
pressed the other insurer for evidence and responses. So I cant hold it responsible for 
delays in closing the claim. 
Mr Hs new insurer increased his premium at renewal due to the open claim. But I cant hold 
Watford responsible for this either. And now the claim has been closed and removed from 
Watfords records and the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, Mr H can 
ask his new insurer to rerate his policy without the claim. This may lead to a refund, but this 
will depend on the insurers underwriting criteria and its assessment of Mr Hs level of risk. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman