DRN-4448964
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the settlement paid by The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) under her home insurance policy, regarding damage to 
oak windows.
What happened
Unfortunately, Mrs Ws property suffered two floods in 2020. She held home insurance with 
NFU at the relevant time and submitted claims for the damage caused. One element of the 
damage for which Mrs W claimed, was mould damage to oak windows in the property. NFU 
accepted and settled the claim in part, however Mrs W was unhappy with the level of cash 
settlement. She didnt consider that it was sufficient to allow her to restore the windows to 
the condition they were in before the floods. Following a complaint by Mrs W to NFU, it 
maintained its position that it had settled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner.
Mrs W was unhappy with NFUs response and referred her complaint to this service. The 
relevant investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint and considered that NFU had acted in 
a fair and reasonable manner. She noted that NFU had paid a total of nearly £1,600 for 
damage to the windows and considered and that it was acceptable for it to settle at the level 
at which the repairs would cost NFU. She also considered that NFU had been fair to say that 
it could consider further costs Mrs W had incurred if she could provide appropriate evidence.
Mrs M remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider here is whether NFU acted in a fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. I consider that it did, and Ill explain why.
I firstly turn to Mrs Ws submissions. She said that the property hadnt recovered properly 
from the floods and that the home had been immaculate prior to this. She was looking to be 
fully compensated for damage to all 17 oak windows. Mrs W said these were affected by 
mould after the home was left empty for two years awaiting decisions by NFU. She said that 
there had been huge amounts of water in the property which had resulted in a significant 
amount of mould. Mrs W said that she had left dehumidifiers and drying machines on 
continuously. She said that as it was winter however, they couldnt cope.
As to restoration, Mrs W said that her partner had restored the downstairs oak windows the 
best they could. Upstairs, they had bleached and started to rub down. as they thought the 
presence of black mould was a health issue, so that they could move forward with 
decorating and return to their home. Mrs W said that NFU refused to pay out in accordance 
with the quote shed received for £4,800. This was received from a specialist whod been 
recommended. She hadnt been able to wait for NFU, as it was holding up work. She said 
that the cash settlement of nearly £1,600 paid by NFU was wholly insufficient and that it 
wouldnt cover the cost of restoring the windows and sills to their original condition. She said 
that in one email, NFU had said that she could get new replacement oak windows with the 
settlement and so obviously have not looked at the cost of individual made oak windows.
Mrs W said that NFU had completed no work whatsoever on any of the windows. The one 
window it did replace was part of a door, and she wasnt claim for that. She also disagreed 
that NFU had offered that its own contractor would repair the oak windows. If it had, she said 
she would have accepted this as it would have saved much pain and effort. As to evidence 
requested by NFU, Mrs W asked whether she should submit a timesheet or, do I get the 
assistance of an expert to complete the renovation of our once perfect oak windows?
I now turn to NFUs submissions. It said that the matter had extensive background history, 
with concerns noted throughout. As to the specific issue of the windows, it had explored 
several options to quantify the loss, including giving Mrs W the opportunity to appoint one of 
its preferred contractors. It said that Mrs W had declined, as she advised that she was doing 
the repairs herself. Despite the fact that Mrs W had submitted the quote for window repairs, 
it didnt think that Mrs W had no intention to utilise them.
It said that despite doubts about the cause of the mould, it previously made a global offer 
which had been accepted and paid to Mrs W, to contribute and assist with...windows. It 
submitted that the property didnt have adequate damp proof membrane in the chimney. It 
considered that in all the circumstances, a payment of just under £1,600 was a reasonable 
settlement. It thought that Mrs W and her partner were either completing the work 
themselves or had someone in mind. It said that it had allowed Mrs W to make the decision 
on whether she used the contribution towards replacing the windows or getting someone in 
to get them professionally cleaned.
NFU noted that in February 2022, Mrs W had contacted it to advise that a radiator 
thermostat required urgent relocation to prevent further mould growth upstairs, and this had 
been authorised. It considered it had therefore acted swiftly to respond to issues.  It 
considered that Mrs W had turned the dehumidifiers off on occasions, as she was concerned 
about electricity bills and safety aspects. NFU said it had politely reminded Mrs W that this 
was impacting upon the mitigation and drying regime strategy and might prejudice the claim. 
NFU said that the evidence didnt show that the damage to the top floor windows was due to 
the flood. It had nevertheless agreed to consider the reasonable cleaning costs that our 
contractors would have likely charged. NFU said that its loss adjuster had quantified the loss 
based on £100 x 8 first floor windows and £266 x 3 ground floor windows. Its loss adjuster 
noted that the damage to the first-floor levels wasnt extensive. NFU said that as six ground 
floor windows had already been sanded and cleaned, and one was being replaced, this then 
left three ground floor windows, which were still to be addressed at the time.  
In summary, NFU said that despite not having received evidence of any incurred losses, it 
had issued a global settlement of £1,600. Contributions had also been paid previously in 
relation to decoration and contractors costs. It had therefore raised this further payment in 
good faith, whilst asking our insured to please submit the actual incurred losses with an 
itemised breakdown. If it received such evidence, it said it may be able to consider a further 
contribution, however this was subject to validating the reasonable and necessary losses 
which had been incurred. In conclusion, it said it had taken a pragmatic approach to resolve 
the claim and considered its offer to have been very reasonable and generous.
Having considered all of the available evidence and submissions of the parties, Ill now 
explain why I havent upheld this complaint. Mrs W has submitted that 17 windows in total 
had been damaged due to the floods, and that mould had appeared on them. Mrs W had obtained a specialist quote to strip and refinish 16 windows and the quote was for £4,800. 
However, Ive seen no evidence of the costs actually incurred in relation to the work which 
has in fact been carried out.
There has been conflicting evidence from the parties in various respects. NFU states that it 
gave Mrs W the opportunity to use one of its preferred contractors, and that Mrs W had 
indicated that she wished to arrange this work herself. Mrs W states that NFU didnt provide 
this option. However, its not necessary to determine this issue in favour of one party or the 
other. The relevant questions for determination are whether the window damage was caused 
by an insured peril, what was the extent of any damage, and whether any costs have been 
or are to be incurred to remedy that damage.
Mrs W is adamant that the mould and damage was caused by the flood initially, and 
potentially due to replastering work following the flood, and difficulties and delays in carrying 
out the work. NFU hasnt discounted these potential causes. However, its pointed out three 
additional possible factors. Firstly, it says that there is a lack of a damp course, which it 
states its experts identified as an issue. Secondly, its records indicate that Mrs W had 
switched dehumidifiers off on occasions due to her concerns. Thirdly, it said that the property 
had been dried out shortly after the flood and so it was unlikely that this had caused 
problems on the first floor. NFU said that it had nevertheless taken a fair and pragmatic 
approach by offering a global settlement to include any window damage. It also said that it 
had acted reasonably in tackling what Mrs W thought to be an issue, by paying for the 
thermostat to be moved. 
Having considered the above factors very carefully, I consider that, on the balance of 
probabilities, at least some of the mould and damage appeared as a consequence of the 
flooding incident, and the length of the claims process. Whilst the property may have dried 
out quickly, the time its taken to bring the property back into habitable condition and re-
plastering, may well have contributed to the mould growth. This will have been exacerbated 
by pre-existing issues and particularly if dehumidifiers had been switched off occasionally, 
and I find that this was likely to have been the case. In the circumstances, I conclude that a 
number of factors are likely to have contributed to the mould and damage. I also conclude on 
the balance of probabilities that not all factors were due to an insured peril or due to NFUs 
actions. I therefore consider that it acted in a fair and reasonable manner by taking a 
pragmatic approach in making a global offer of settlement for the windows.
As to the extent of the damage, I consider the evidence of Mrs Ws specialist to be 
persuasive in this respect. The quote dated February 2022 refers to work to strip and 
refinish the oak windows. NFU refers to the word preparation. Again, on the balance of 
probabilities, this doesnt indicate that wood or frame replacement was required and that the 
damage in the circumstances was likely to be surface damage rather than more serious 
damage and rot. Its not necessary for me to make a determination as to whether the quote 
for such work was reasonable in the light of the final question below, and no alternative 
quote has been submitted for comparison purposes.
Finally, Ive received no evidence to show the level of costs which have been incurred by 
Mrs W to date in order to remedy the mould and to restore the windows. From the available 
evidence, I consider it likely that some of the work has already been carried out by or on 
behalf of Mrs W. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that NFU has taken an approach 
which is pragmatic, but also fair and reasonable. Its loss adjuster has applied standard rates 
in making its cash settlement of approximately £1,600. Its also explained and justified the 
reasoning for applying different rates to the ground floor and first floor windows. I also 
consider that its acted in a fair and reasonable manner in agreeing to consider any further 
claim for work by Mrs W, if this is supported by necessary evidence.In all the circumstances, whilst I appreciate that this decision will disappoint Mrs W, I 
consider it to be a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I dont require The 
National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society to do any more in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman