DRN-2220202
The complaint
Mr F says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out at some point between 1994 and
2000. The policy was added to Mr Fs credit card account either when he applied for the
card in person or at some point after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Its most likely that Lloyds sold Mr F the PPI at the same time as he took out his card 
because thats the way it generally sold such policies. However, the earliest statements
Lloyds can provide that show PPI being charged are from 2000. So there remains some
uncertainty about when the PPI was sold. To be fair to Mr F, when reaching my decision Ive
considered Mr Fs circumstances for both the earliest and latest possible sale dates.
Lloyds cant provide us with any original documents from the time. Thats understandable,
given the sale was so long ago and the account closed more than ten years ago. I wouldnt 
expect either the bank or Mr F to keep paperwork indefinitely. But it does mean Ive had to 
rely on the evidence we do have and what we know about how Lloyds sold these policies in 
order to reach my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint because:
Lloyds has given us a sample of the type of agreement Mr F would have signed. I cant
see any reason why hed have been treated differently from other customers, so I think
its fair to say hed have signed something very similar. The sort of credit agreement
hed have signed in 1997 asked him to tick either yes or no to say if he wanted to apply 
for PPI, so if it was sold then I think he most likely agreed to buy it. 
Ive also looked at whether the PPI might have been sold at a later date. If it was, I dont 
think it likely Mr F could have thought he had to have it. Hed already got the card, so hes 
unlikely to have thought the PPI was part and parcel of getting that. 
Overall I think Lloyds made Mr F aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it, although I can understand why he can no longer remember this.
Its likely that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F, but it doesnt look as if it was
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  which remained
largely unchanged between the earliest and latest possible sale dates.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But Mr F chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely
Mr F would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On
balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments, including what hes said about his employment 
benefits and savings. But the PPI would have paid out on top of these, and meant Mr F 
could use his benefits and savings for other costs, so I still think the PPI would have been 
beneficial.
Mr F says he didnt realise he had the PPI so it cant have been discussed when it was sold. 
Ive seen his card statements from 2000 onwards  and I can see the PPI is shown as a 
separate entry and is fairly prominent  in that its not included in the everyday transactions 
but instead shown in the overall summary. I think if Mr F didnt recognise this entry it was 
reasonable that he could have queried it with the bank  but I cant see that he ever did this.
Finally Mr F says the bank acknowledged it might have mis-sold the policy but isnt giving 
him a refund. The comments made by the bank are about commission it would have charged 
within the PPI premiums. As our adjudicator explained, these comments are about 
commission charged on premiums where credit agreements were held between certain 
dates. Mr Fs card wasnt open at the relevant times. So the bank was correct when it said 
this issue didnt apply to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman