DRN-2871151
The complaint
Miss M complains Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined the claim she made
under her upholstery warranty.
What happened
Miss M had an upholstery warranty shed taken out for her sofa, underwritten by Amtrust. In 
August 2020 Miss M made a claim under the warranty for damage to her sofa. In her claim 
form Miss M said the damage happened when Sofa moved into new room. New puppy got 
access and she noted the sofa had been damaged in four areas.
 
Amtrust sent a technician to inspect Miss Ms sofa. They said Miss Ms dog seams [sic] to 
have plucked every section of the sofa, its [sic] happened over a period of time not a one off 
incident. As a result, Amtrust declined Miss Ms claim, saying her warranty didnt cover 
damage caused by pets biting, chewing or scratching which wasnt limited to a single 
incident. Miss M thought this was unfair so she complained to Amtrust. But Amtrust said it 
had been correct to decline her claim based on this exclusion.
Miss M brought her complaint to our service. She explained her dog had never been allowed 
into the room where the sofa was, but her son carried out decoration works that meant the 
sofa was moved overnight and her dog attacked the sofa over this eight hour period. 
Miss M thought it was inaccurate of Amtrust to say the damage happened over a period of 
time, as her dog hadnt done any further damage to the sofa since.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He said that although the damage 
happened over one night, the damages themselves werent a one-off event since Miss Ms 
dog damaged multiple parts of the sofa over a period of time. So he thought Amtrust had 
acted fairly in declining the claim.
Miss M disagreed, saying that this was just one incident regardless of what happened in the 
incident. And that if a single incident meant one scratch only, then one of the scratches 
would be a one-off incident which would then be covered under the warranty. 
But our investigator didnt change his view. As agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Ms
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
On 1 June 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked at the warranty terms and conditions. They say 'The intention of this Plan is 
to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental staining and accidental damage. And 
go on to define accidental damage as sudden and unintentional damage resulting in rips, 
punctures, scuffs, burns, chips or scratches to the external surface of the item. So the 
warranty is intended to cover individual incidents of sudden and unintentional damage to the 
surface of Miss Ms sofa.
I dont doubt the explanation Miss Ms given for how her sofa came to be damaged, as her 
testimony has been consistent throughout her contact with Amtrust and with our service. And 
based on what Ive seen so far, Amtrust doesnt dispute there has been accidental damage 
to Miss Ms sofa.
However, Amtrust has relied on an exclusion to decline Miss Ms claim. Ive considered 
whether it was fair for Amtrust to do that. Section 4  what is not covered of the warranty 
terms and conditions sets out the exclusion Amtrust is relying on. It says the warranty wont 
cover Damage caused by pets biting or chewing the item and any scratching which is not 
limited to a single incident.
Miss Ms argument is that the eight hour time frame is one incident  that her dog damaged 
the sofa over that one period of time. Photos of the damaged sofa provided by both Miss M 
and Amtrust show very many areas where the sofa fabric has been damaged. Based on this 
and Miss Ms testimony, Im satisfied the damage is quite extensive and was likely caused 
over a period of eight hours.
But whats in dispute here is what is meant by single incident. The warranty terms and 
conditions dont provide any definition for this. And they dont say anything about a single 
incident being limited in any way, for example to a particular time period. So the terms are 
ambiguous on this point, as they leave what is meant by single incident open to a 
reasonable interpretation.
In this particular case, I think single incident could reasonably be interpreted to mean the 
damage caused by Miss Ms dog in one relatively short period of time. And as I say, the 
warranty terms are ambiguous on what is meant by a single incident. So I think its fair for 
this ambiguity to be interpreted in Miss Ms favour.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was reasonable of Amtrust to rely on the 
single incident exclusion to decline Miss Ms claim. To put things right, I think it should 
reconsider her claim without applying this exclusion.
Both Miss M and Amtrust accepted my provisional decision. Ive now gone on to make my 
final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss M and Amtrust have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it.
  
Putting things right
Amtrust should reconsider Miss Ms claim without applying the single incident exclusion.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Amtrust Europe Limited should reconsider her claim without applying the single incident 
exclusion.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman