DRN-2571045
The complaint
Mr V complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA will not refund some disputed transactions.
PayPal says it considers the transactions to be authorised.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr V spoke to his bank  N  about the balance on his account which 
was overdrawn by over £3000. Having looked at his statement, he said he did not recognise 
a number of transactions made to gaming apps.  The transactions were being made to 
companies who I will call G and M and were being made using Mr Vs PayPal account.
Upon considering Mr Vs statements further, they showed payments had been made to G 
and M as far back as 2016  but had been increasing in number considerably since then.  Mr 
V said he didnt play games, didnt have a games console and didnt know anyone else who 
had one.  He also told this service he hadnt entered his PayPal account details into a games 
console either.  He then said he may have done this for his son  but this was some time 
ago and he wouldnt have stored his details on the console as he didnt know how to.
Also, initially Mr V said his son would visit him every weekend.  However, he then said he 
had been reminded that his son hadnt visited him for three years.
Mr V said he had set up his PayPal account to make occasional purchases.  He used his 
phone for these as he didnt have a computer at home.  He didnt have his passwords or 
usernames written down anywhere. And he had occasional visitors to his home including his 
carers, his father and his son.  Mr V also said he had friends who would sometimes help him 
access his emails and that the password for his email may have been the same as his 
password for his PayPal account.
When Mr V spoke to his bank in December 2019, his bank recorded in its interview notes 
with him that Mr V suffered from a health issue which effected his short-term memory.  As a 
result, his father had been added to the account as a third party.  
Mr Vs bank also contacted PayPal on his behalf and submitted chargeback disputes for the 
disputed transactions.  PayPal had initially refunded some of the payments to Mr V, but 
subsequently re-debited them as it said it was satisfied, from the response to the 
chargeback, that they had been authorised.
When PayPal did not uphold Mr Vs complaint, he came to this service.
Our investigator considered the possible scenarios as to how these transactions could have 
been made from Mr Vs account.  She acknowledged that Mr V has spent some time in 
hospital in 2019 but was also in the community for some time too.  Mr Vs transaction history 
helped her come to that conclusion.
She explained, carefully, that considering all the evidence provided, it seemed more likely 
than not that someone close to Mr V had made the transactions. Someone who had been 
able to access his personal information perhaps.  The account with M had been set up using 
Mr Vs name, address, email address and phone number.  However, the user name on the 
account appeared to be the name of Mr Vs son.
Although our investigator couldnt say with certainty who was responsible for the 
transactions, she explained the element of authority and how these transactions could be 
deemed to be authorised even though Mr V hadnt made them himself.
At the same time as considering this complaint, our service was also considering a complaint 
Mr V had brought against his bank  N.  Since our involvement, N has agreed not to pursue 
Mr V for the debt on his account caused by these payments to G and M. 
The matter was then passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this is going to be disappointing for Mr V, but I am afraid I have arrived at the same 
decision as the investigator and for very much the same reasons.  Ill explain why below  
but if I dont mention something which either Mr V or PayPal have mentioned, its not 
because I havent considered it.  I can assure both sides that I have - but in keeping with the 
informal nature of this service, Im not proposing to repeat every detail of the complaint in 
this decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules and guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
where relevant.
The relevant law in Mr Vs case is contained in the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs 2017).  These say that if it is more likely than not that the payments from Mr Vs 
account have been authorised, PayPal can hold him liable for them.  In certain 
circumstances, they also allow for payments to be made by a third party to be considered to 
be authorised  even if Mr V didnt know about the payments or ask the third party to make 
them.  This is the concept of apparent authority.
As I said above, payments made by a third party can be considered to be authorised if Mr V 
gave this person authority to act on his behalf. So, if it looks like the payment has been 
authorised by the payer (Mr V), PayPal may be entitled to hold him liable.  Mr V doesnt need 
to have given his explicit permission on every occasion.
Of course, there are situations where Mr V wouldnt be liable in these circumstances  and 
that would be, for example, if his card had been stolen and used by the thief.  But thats not 
the position here.
In Mr Vs case, I need to consider whether he played any part in allowing the transactions 
which he now disputes.  In other words, did he do anything which could be said to have 
allowed another person to have his authority to make payments?
Mr V says he thinks he recalls entering his PayPal details into his sons game console a 
while ago.  This matches with the evidence we have seen as payments to G and M started 
back in 2016.  However, he doesnt think he saved the details in the console because he 
didnt know how to. I think its likely that the details were saved and whilst I appreciate Mr V may not have been 
aware of this, I cant fairly say PayPal can be held responsible for this either.
I know Mr V is concerned that our investigator has suggested his son may be responsible for 
these payments.  I cant say for sure that he is  but the rules which govern this service say I 
need to make a decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened  and this 
wont be good news for Mr V but I think its more likely than not his son is responsible. 
Im basing my decision on the fact that the user name on the games is Mr Vs sons name, 
the IP address used to make the purchases appears consistent with Mr Vs address and Mr 
V now recalls his son does have a games console.  I also think its likely that his son has 
visited him regularly in the last three years.
Ive seen evidence from Mr Vs bank which shows Mr V had logged on to his online banking 
during the time these transactions were occurring.  Mr V doesnt dispute this  but when 
asked why he hadnt queried the transactions sooner, he said he just hadnt considered his 
statement in detail.  
I know this will be disappointing news for Mr V but in the circumstance of his case, I cant 
fairly ask PayPal to refund these payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman