DRN-1724232
The complaint
Ms U feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to some 
cosmetic goods and services she purchased from a salon.
What happened
In December 2018 Ms U entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and services. 
These goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through credit provided by 
Etika and alongside a deposit. The credit agreement was a fixed sum loan agreement to 
paid for over 24 monthly instalments for a total cost of £1600. She signed the agreement 
electronically through the salon. 
The salon then unexpectedly closed, leaving Ms U without any of the treatments shed paid 
for but Etika are still asking her to pay it back some of the money it loaned her. Ms U says 
she didnt get any of the treatments or products she paid for and doesnt think the salon 
treated her fairly. She wants to pay nothing as she says she received nothing from the salon 
under the contract.
So she spoke to Etika who acknowledged there had been a breach of contract and offered 
her a price reduction for the treatments it accepts she never received. But it points to the 
documentation from the time which says Ms U received some products. So Etika says Ms U 
should pay it for those. Ms U doesnt think she should pay any more, as she says she didnt 
receive any products under the contract, so she complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and felt Etika had treated Ms U fairly with its price 
reduction and asking her to pay for the products received. Etika has confirmed it will honour 
the position it originally offered Ms U. Ms U contested this on the basis she says she 
received nothing. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms U raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Ms U has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract 
against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against the credit 
provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. 
However it must be remembered that although this legislation places obligations on Etika, it 
still is a different entity to the salon. This is not a decision about what the salon did or didnt 
do, as I cannot decide on that as the salon isnt in existence anymore (or within my remit). It 
is a decision regarding Etika and how it has acted. I hope this key issue is clear.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I think 
this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also needs to be the 
required three-party contractual relationship-between debtor, creditor and supplier; often 
referred to as the DCS relationship. This is made out here also. 
Bearing in mind Etika has acknowledged that the course of treatments paid for by the 
agreement hasnt been completed and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need to 
consider how this matter should be resolved fairly between the parties.
As a starting point I think it fair that Ms U pays for the goods and services she did receive 
and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. Etika have accepted she didnt receive any 
treatments and has offered a price reduction to reflect this. But it feels Ms U did receive 
some products, so it wants Ms U to pay for these. Etika is reliant on an invoice from the time 
which specifically notes that client has signed and collected products on 12.12.18. This is 
the same date as Ms U electronically signed the fixed sum loan agreement.
Ms U is adamant she received nothing when at the salon. She says she agreed to pick up 
the products on the date of her first treatment. She describes getting a free cream as part of 
a promotion in which she signed up some friends. But it is very clear that her position is 
that she didnt receive anything under the contract.
It must be remembered here that this isnt a decision regarding the salon in question. It is a 
decision about whether Etika has treated Ms U fairly. Etika has chosen to rely on written 
evidence from the time and to see it as more persuasive than Ms Us comments made after 
the event. Having considered the matter and knowing what this service knows about similar 
cases regarding this salon more broadly, on balance Im not persuaded that Etika has 
treated Ms U unfairly in asking her to pay for these products. I dont think it is acting unfairly 
in relying on this document from the time in question considering the circumstances in the 
round.
Ive considered the price reduction applied and see that it is broadly aligned with our 
approach. I note that had Etika not made such an offer and this service had considered the 
matter our approach may have led to Ms U owing more. This service has been in contact 
with Etika and it has confirmed it is willing to honour the position it set out originally.
In short Im not persuaded any part of this complaint should be successful. I think Etika has 
treated Ms U fairly with regard to this contract and the price reduction it has described. 
Accordingly it can seek what it is owed by Ms U under the agreement once the price 
reduction has been applied.
Ms U has indicated that she has moved abroad. It isnt clear whether this is permanent. Etika 
has said that if Ms U doesnt pay it will pursue the matter and record the debt accordingly. 
Ms U should be aware of this and that if the debt remains unpaid it would adversely impact 
her credit file which can have significant consequences.
Summary
In short, Ive considered everything that Ms U has said. I appreciate how Ms U feels about 
the whole situation. However I think Etikas position with regard to this contract is fair and 
reasonable in these particular circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Etika Finance UK Limited. It is entitled to ask Ms U to pay what she owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman