DRN-3731254
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited added a marker to CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr O says that someone stole his phone and was able to access his account at Starling 
Bank using the app. He says he has no knowledge of fraudulent payments into his account. 
The marker is affecting his ability to have an account at other financial businesses.
Starling Bank said it hadnt made a mistake and wouldnt be removing the marker. On 1 
June 2022, payments of £3,500 and £1,432.18 were received into Mr Os account. It asked 
Mr O questions about the source of the money and wasnt satisfied with the response. 
Starling Bank received formal fraud reports. It didnt think that Mr Os account had been 
taken over as he says. Starling Bank said that the last device added to the online account 
was on 3 March 2022 which was verified with a video of Mr O. The password hadnt been 
reset since 5 May 2021. It closed his account and registered the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He explained that there is a 
high bar for adding a marker. Here there had been a report that fraudulent funds had been 
received. Mr O said that hed lost his phone on 28 May 2022 while working late and couldnt 
find it. Hed said that the passcode on the phone and that on the app were the same. Mr O 
told him he wasnt sure if someone had hacked his phone.
Our adjudicator noted that Mr O hadnt reported his phone as lost until 6 June 2022 and hed 
said the loss date was 3 June 2022, not 28 May 2022. This was after the funds had been 
received into his account. Starling Bank said it had sent the questions on Mr Os account to 
his email as well as on the app. Thered been no incorrect attempts to log into Mr Os 
account and no point of compromise for his details. And on 1 June 2022 a payee had been 
set up in Mr Os name for an account at a different financial business. It was unclear why this 
would have been done. And Mr O had confirmed he had other bank accounts including one 
at this other financial business. Our adjudicator said he thought it more likely that not that   
Mr O was complicit in what happened.
Mr O didnt agree and said he didnt see hed been shown to be deliberately dishonest. He 
said when he spoke to the adjudicator he hadnt remembered the exact dates when hed 
reported his phone lost: but the point was that he didnt have it at the time and wasnt aware 
of the payments. He said that anyone could send money to his account and he was 
helpless to stop them. Mr O said he was certain that he hadnt received any emails with 
questions about the payments and that the first email was about the closure of his account. 
Mr O explained hed recently been targeted by a hacker trying to get details of an account at 
a different financial business and he provided a video of screenshots showing this. He said 
that until this happened in September 2022 he had no clue that the last time it happened it 
was a hacker trying to access my starling account. He said he believed and now 
remembered that this is exactly how the hacker gained access He had no idea why a 
payee to his account at a different bank had been added but they had everything they 
needed to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
I first can say that while Ive seen the questions and answers about the payments, the 
evidence I have doesnt show that these were sent to Mr Os email account. I note that on 29 
June 2022 when this issue had been put to him by Starling Bank hed stated As I had lost 
my phone I didnt log in to my emails until the day when I called Starling upon reading my 
emails. But then on 30 June 2022 that having checked his email The first email received 
was on the 13 June 2022. I cant see that was formally challenged by Starling Bank with 
him.
I note whats been said about the loss of his phone. In his email of 27 June 2022 to Starling 
Bank Mr O stated he found he didnt have his phone on 28 May 2022. And that after a 
couple of days of not being able to find it I reported it to the police The point is that he 
reported the loss date officially as 3 June 2022 and made the report on 6 June 2022. So that 
makes his supporting evidence about him not having his phone at the relevant time less 
helpful. Id also expect a fraudster to act quickly on obtaining the phone as thered be an 
immediate risk of detection and also of the phone and/or any apps being blocked, and it 
seemed to be at least three days before there was any use.
I note Mr O also refers in that email to an account being set up at a different bank using his 
details. The extract about this Ive seen shows that a current account switching request had 
been set up from his Starling Bank account to that new bank account to complete on 23 
June 2022. I consider that an odd thing for a fraudster to do.
Ive looked at the issue of whether his account details were compromised. One possibility is 
that he was somehow shoulder surfed: but the last use of the account from his statement 
was in April 2022. And that also wouldnt explain how someone had worked out on what he 
says that his phone passcode and app passcode were the same. Another possibility is that 
his details were hacked. At the time of discussion about the compromise of his details with 
Starling Bank he said anything I say would be assumptions. Im unclear when he says this 
specific hack of his details he now remembers happened. And in any event the nature of that wouldnt explain how an unknown person involved also was able to obtain the device itself 
used to access the account and necessarily know the phone passcode even if the account 
details were somehow known. 
Mr O says hes been in contact with the sender of the fraudulently obtained money who told 
him that his account was hacked to obtain money. The issue though is what happened to   
Mr Os account. He had no money in it before these payments. The purpose of a fraudster 
accessing it is unclear and so why the money would be sent to Mr O who says hes another 
victim. And theres also no real explanation from him about why attempts would be made to 
send the money on to another account in his name? Fraudsters will most likely access 
money as quickly as possible. And if a fraudster could set up a payee on Mr Os account it 
seems unlikely to be to another account of his even if that as Mr O says was possible. This 
all seems implausible to me.
Having considered all the evidence I find it most likely that Mr O was complicit in what 
happened and that he was either directly involved in the payments or that he allowed his 
account to be used by a third party in this way and for which he is equally responsible.
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr O received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Starling Bank was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Os account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Starling Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr O received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Starling Bank 
at the time.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Mr O had been involved in the receipt and 
attempted dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
As a result, I also find there were grounds for it to decide to close his account. I appreciate 
what Mr O says about the impact of the marker for him. But Im afraid I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Starling Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman