DRN-4284108
The complaint
Mr A complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited trading as Shepherds 
Friendly declined to meet an income protection claim and then cancelled his policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont set it out in detail 
here. In summary Mr A took out an income protection policy through a financial adviser in 
August 2018. He declared some medical conditions and his application was accepted. 
In August 2022 Mr A had to stop work as he needed a hip replacement and had carpal 
tunnel syndrome. Shepherds Friendly assessed is claim but considered that he had failed to 
answer the application questions correctly. It said this was deliberate or reckless, cancelled 
his policy and retained Mr As premiums. Unhappy, Mr A complained to our Service. Our 
investigator agreed that there had been a qualifying misrepresentation but felt it was 
careless. She recommended that Mr A was refunded his premiums. Shepherds Friendly 
didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
For completeness I would add that although the policy was taken out through a financial 
adviser, this decision only concerns Shepherds Friendly, who underwrite the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive fully reviewed the complete file.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. Shepherds Friendly thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation when applying for cover. Accordingly Ive looked carefully at the 
questions asked together with the medical evidence in order to determine whether 
Shepherds Friendly s approach was fair.
When taking out the policy in August 2018 the application form asked: Apart from 
anything your client has already told us about in this application, in the last 12 
months have they: Had any medical condition, illness or injury that your client is 
currently receiving treatment for or have received treatment for over a continuous 
period of four weeks or more? It is clear from the medical records that following hip 
surgery in August 2017 Mr A was suffering from cellulitis for which he was prescribed 
medication for some months. But in reply to follow up questions Mr A responded that 
all was fine now and that there were no problems. In the light of the medical evidence 
Im satisfied that this was incorrect and it was fair for Shepherds friendly to conclude 
this question should have been answered differently  including the cellulitis 
diagnosis and treatment.
Additionally the form asked: Apart from anything your client has already told us about 
in this application, during the last 5 years have they seen a health professional for: 
Any lupus, fibromyalgia, gout or any type of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint 
trouble, for example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica? Mr A disclosed his hip 
replacements. it is apparent from an orthopaedic review shortly before the policy was 
taken out in 2018 that he was suffering from pain in his lumbar spine for which he 
was referred to physiotherapy. 
As well as back pain the medical records show in 2017 Mr A was also experiencing 
some pain in his knee. Im find it was reasonable for Shepherds Friendly to conclude 
the answer to the above question wasnt complete.
For commercial reasons I cant share the underwriting evidence Ive seen, but I am 
satisfed that had Mr A answered the questions correctly he wouldnt have been 
offered cover. This means that the misrepresentation was qualifying. Shepherds 
Friendly has classified this misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless and his 
retained his premiums. However Im not persuaded it has shown that the 
misrepresentation does fall into this category. I can see that Mr A did answer 
questions about his health. He said he believes he completed the application fully 
and didnt knowingly withhold any information. I dont find that Shepherds Friendly 
has shown that Mr A knew the answers he gave were untrue or misleading or didnt 
care (was reckless) as to whether this was so. There is nothing before me to show 
that the omissions were anything other than careless.
In these circumstances and in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA, Shepherds 
Friendly is not obliged to meet the claim, as it would never have offered Mr A cover if 
the questions had been answered correctly. However, in line with the legislation I find 
it should return Mr As premiums. 
I note that it became apparent at the claim stage that Mr A had been over-insured. 
This was not the fault of Shepherds Friendly. But as it was not on risk for the full 
amount of cover Mr A was paying for, I would generally find it to be reasonable for 
the extra premiums to be refunded with interest from when a financial business 
became aware of the situation. Here though as Mr As claim doesnt succeed and I 
anyway require Shepherds Friendly to return the premiums paid, this issue has been 
overtaken. Nevertheless I agree that Shepherds Friendly should pay interest on the 
refund of premiums from the claim decline until settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The Shepherds Friendly 
Society Limited trading as Shepherds Friendly to:
Refund Mr A the premiums he paid. 
Add simple interest to this sum at the annual rate of 8% from the date of the claim 
decline decision, or from the date paid if later, until settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman