DRN-3878291
The complaint
Miss H complains about a used car she bought using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. Miss H is unhappy that Santander declined a claim she 
submitted under S75 Consumer Credit Act (S75) in relation to the defective car. 
What happened
In April 2021 Miss H acquired a used car using a fixed sum loan with Santander. The 
amount borrowed was £9,073 and this consisted of £8,101 for the price of the car and 
£1,422 negative equity from a previous motor finance agreement, along with the £450 
deposit Miss H paid. The loan was to be repaid over 60 months, with repayments of £190.47 
each month. 
In November 2021 the car broke down and this appears to have been caused by some 
electrical issues. Further electrical issues were reported at the end of December 2021 and 
again in mid-March 2022. Previously successful attempts to get the car running had by this 
time failed and the car remained undrivable at a manufacturer branded dealership. 
Miss H says that she was told by the dealership that the faults could not be fixed and trying 
to find the problem was like trying to find a needle in a haystack. Miss H says that after some 
time she was told that new wiring, costing approximately £1,200 - £1,400, was required. I 
understand no repairs have been carried out and the car remains at the dealership. 
Miss H complained to Santander and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to 
our service. It was considered by one of our investigators, who explained why they 
considered the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied and essentially  
that Santander should have upheld Miss Hs claim under S75. The investigator then set out 
what they considered to be reasonable redress in the circumstances of Miss Hs complaint. 
Santander did not respond to the investigators view and as the complaint has not been 
resolved informally it has been referred to me for consideration. 
After initially reviewing the complaint, I asked Miss H to clarify some points further, which 
she did. And I asked the investigator to explain to Miss H that the redress I was considering 
would allow for the £1,422 negative equity that had been included in the fixed sum loan 
agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases when it is not clear what happened or where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, I base my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence. 
Firstly, it is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as 
a free alternative to the courts for consumers. Im very aware that I have summarised in less 
detail what has been submitted by the parties in this complaint. In deciding this complaint 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on 
every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss H or 
Santander but reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
The complaint here is about the way Santander dealt with Miss Hs claim under S75, in 
relation to the car she bought using the fixed sum loan agreement with Santander. S75 
states that subject to certain conditions, Miss H has an equal right to bring a claim about a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier to Santander. That ultimately means 
that Santander is responsible for the quality of the car and can be liable if the car is not of 
satisfactory quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant legislation when considering the quality of 
goods and services and this essentially says that the car should be of satisfactory quality at 
the time its supplied to Miss H. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
expect, considering amongst other things the age and price of the car. Section 9 of the CRA 
refers to satisfactory quality and notes that the quality of goods includes their state and 
condition. It goes on to list the following aspects, amongst others, of the quality of goods, (a) 
fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied; (b) appearance 
and finish; (c) freedom from minor defects; (d) safety; (e) durability. 
The used car that Miss H bought in April 2021 cost over £8,000, was around 7 years old and 
had travelled 67,000 miles. When considering a car of this age and mileage it would in my 
view not be unreasonable to expect it to be showing signs of wear and tear and not be in the 
same as new condition that it would have been in when first manufactured. This will be in 
relation to the mechanical components and its cosmetic appearance. The price Miss H paid 
for the car was considerably cheaper than the cost of the car new, and this is to take into 
account the general condition, mileage and wear and tear the car had experienced since first 
being manufactured. 
Although I would expect a car of this age and mileage to show signs of wear and tear and 
require some general maintenance and upkeep, it would not however be reasonable to 
supply the car to Miss H with existing defects that go beyond fair wear and tear, unless these 
were clearly pointed out before agreeing to acquire the car. 
There appears to be no dispute that the car is defective and Miss H has provided supporting 
evidence from when the car initially broke down, twice, before being left with the dealership. 
The car appears to have suffered from some sort of significant electrical component/system 
failure, which has then impacted on the functionality of various features of the car and have 
ultimately resulted in the car being undrivable. From what Miss H has described, the faults 
range from issues with the centre console, infotainment system and air conditioning, to 
power steering and braking issues. While I accept that some of the issues experienced may 
not be considered significant, such as the infotainment system, others however do appear to 
present a significant safety concern. This is specifically in relation to the steering and 
braking, which will understandably prevent Miss H from wanting to use the car, even if it is 
actually drivable. 
Miss H says the dealership initially told her that, in so many words, that because this was an 
electrical fault it would be impossible to find and fix the issues she had experienced. She 
was later informed that new wiring would be required but this was after some considerable 
time and I have not been presented with anything that demonstrates the fault was 
successfully identified, or therefore that this would actually resolve the issue. 
As referred to above, the CRA includes durability and safety as aspects of satisfactory quality. It should be obvious why goods need to be safe to use and consumers are free to 
use them without fear of harm. The durability of goods is to ensure they are made to last a 
reasonable amount of time, depending of course on what the specific goods are and how 
they have been used. 
When applying durability considerations to a car I think its reasonable to again consider the 
age and mileage of the car at the time it was supplied and the time of the defect. 
Consideration should also be given to the defect or specific component and the impact of the 
defect/component failure. 
The difficulty here is that there is no clear evidence to show exactly what has failed or 
caused the problems with the car. But it is clear that the failure appears to have had a 
significant impact on a variety of electrical components or features across a number of areas 
of the car. Again as mentioned above, some of these relate to the braking and steering and 
in my view are therefore significant safety elements of the car. 
I appreciate that Miss H doesnt appear to have reported any issues with the car for around 8 
months after she had bought it and by the time the problems materialised in November 2021 
the car had travelled around 3,000 miles. However, as already mentioned, one of the 
requirements of satisfactory quality under the CRA relates to durability. 
The electrical issues are varied and in my view significant, affecting what appears to be a 
number of different components and elements of the car. The problems caused to the 
steering and braking of the car are also in my view likely to impact on the safety of the car, 
which is again another aspect of satisfactory quality under the CRA. 
Elements of the cars wiring appear to have failed and caused the resulting component 
failures. The cars wiring is not in my view a serviceable item that Miss H, or any other 
owner, would be expected to have to change at a certain point in time/mileage or at a 
specific service interval. I appreciate that components may break or fail sooner than 
expected. But I also consider a reasonable person would expect the wiring of the car to last 
longer than the time it has lasted on Miss Hs car and in many cases, when considering the 
absence of servicing requirements for the wiring, I think it reasonable to expect these 
components to last the lifetime of the vehicle. It is difficult to say exactly how long the lifetime 
of the vehicle would be, but I am satisfied that would be longer than the approximate 70,000 
miles the car had travelled when it initially failed. 
For the reasons set out here, I consider there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate the car 
was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss H as it was not sufficiently 
durable. This is a breach of contract of the supply agreement between Miss H and the 
supplying dealer, which Santander would be liable for under S75. I have therefore set out 
below what I consider is reasonable to compensate Miss H. 
Putting things right
Miss H has now been without use of the car since March 2022 when it was left with the 
dealership. The exact cause of the problems or therefore what is required to resolve them 
has not been set out and from the evidence presented, I am not persuaded that any repairs 
would successfully resolve the issues with the car. Im also mindful of the car being sat 
unused for approximately a year and the potential additional issues that may now be with the 
car because of this. 
I also understand that due to the number of times the car has failed, plus the absence of 
anything convincing to indicate the problems can be easily remedied, that Miss H is likely to 
be somewhat reluctant to allow repairs to be attempted and then potentially take back the car. It is therefore for these reasons, that I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Miss 
H to be able to reject the car and cancel her finance agreement with Santander with nothing 
further owed. 
Miss H did have some initial trouble free use of the car, followed by further use that was 
impacted by breakdowns, before having no use of the car since March 2022 when it was left 
with the dealership. In the circumstances here, I think it reasonable for Miss H to pay for the 
use she has had up to March 2022 and the regularly loan repayments are not an 
unreasonable amount to cover the cost of Miss Hs use each month. As Miss H has not 
however had use of the car since March 2022 any repayments made after March 2022 
should be refunded to Miss H, with interest. 
When taking out the fixed sum loan agreement Miss H included £1,422 of negative equity 
from a previous finance agreement. With the loan being cancelled now Miss H may be 
considered to have unfairly benefitted as she has not yet repaid the £1,422 taken on top of 
the actual loan for the car. I think it is therefore reasonable for this to be included in the 
redress payable to Miss H. 
The negative equity amount of £1,422 represented approximately 15% of the total amount 
borrowed. Its reasonable to assume therefore that approximately 15% of every monthly 
repayment Miss H made would help to reduce this element of the borrowing. Miss H made 
around 12 monthly repayments of £190.47 and 15% of each repayment is approximately 
£28. Through the 12 repayments Miss H has therefore likely repaid approximately £336 of 
the £1,422 negative equity amount, resulting in £1,086 remaining outstanding. Santander 
should therefore deduct this amount from the amount it is required to refund to Miss H. 
Finally, had Santander dealt with Miss H fairly and reasonably when dealing with her S75 
claim this issue would have been resolved much sooner. Miss H has been making the 
monthly repayments on the loan without having use of the car and therefore incurring 
additional costs in the process. Miss H has referred to this being more problematic as she is 
trying to arrange a remortgage and the outstanding loan agreement is problematic. Miss H 
has also been required to make alternative travel arrangements for considerable months. In 
view of this Santander should pay Miss H an additional £200 for the trouble and upset it has 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint against Santander Consumer (UK) PLC 
and direct Santander to:
Cancel the fixed sum loan agreement with nothing further owed.
Refund the £450 deposit and monthly repayments Miss H has made to the loan 
agreement since March 2022.
Add interest to each refunded amount at 8% simple per year from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Miss H £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Deduct from these sums £1,086 in respect of the approximate outstanding amount 
remaining for the negative equity amount. 
If settlement is not made within 28 days of Miss H accepting this decision, Santander should 
add interest to the £200 at the same rate set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman