DRN-3596180
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax applied a default and closed his 
account at a time when he was struggling due to mental health issues and being 
hospitalised. .
What happened
Mr H had an account with Halifax on which a payment was owed. He says he contacted 
Halifax to explain his mental health issues and was told he could have 60 days to settle the 
account. However, he was unable to do this and the account was closed, and a default 
recorded. He says this caused him distress and made his mental health worse. He says that 
when he contacted Halifax about this at a later date, he didnt receive the service he should 
have. Mr H wants the default removed from his credit file, the debt written off and 
compensation for the upset this issue has cause him.
Halifax says that it attempted to contact Mr H on several occasions by telephone and sent 
him letters about the status of his account. It says the letters sent explained the actions he 
needed to take and as this didnt happen the account was closed, and a default recorded. It 
says that Mr H contacted it in 2017 and made it aware of his circumstances at which time it 
tried to offer support by saying it would remove the default if Mr H made the required 
payment within 60 days. As this didnt happen the default remained in place. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that Mr Hs account fell into arrears 
in September 2016 and that Halifax tried to contact Mr H about this by telephone and letter. 
She noted Mr Hs comment that he hadnt received any calls from Halifax but also that he 
had received arrears letters from that time, so she found it reasonable to accept he was 
aware of the status of his account. She acknowledged Mr Hs mental health at the time but 
also that she had nothing to show that Halifax was aware of this until after the account 
closure and default. Based on this she didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong by 
taking the actions it did. Our investigator also found that Halifax had tried to support Mr H 
when he made it aware of his circumstances by noting the date Mr H said he could make 
repayment by and saying the default would be removed if this happened. Unfortunately, 
Mr H wasnt able to make the repayment and our investigator didnt think Halifax was 
required to take any further action. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked through Mr Hs account statements and these show that his account had gone 
into debt on occasions prior to September 2016 but that he had then brought his account 
back into credit. However, in September 2016, the account went into debt and this debt 
increased over the following weeks. Given the situation on Mr Hs account I think it 
reasonable that Halifax tried contact Mr H.
Mr H said that he didnt receive any telephone calls, but I can see from the system notes 
provided by Halifax that these were attempted. Letters were sent to Mr H about the status of 
his account and providing him advance warning of the account closure. The address Halifax 
has on its system is the same as the address Mr H has provided and so I find it reasonable 
to accept these letters were received. I also note that Mr H made contact in November 2016 
about a payment plan which suggests he was aware of the status of his account and the 
need to take action. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept Mr H knew he needed to repay 
the amount on his account and that Halifax took the expected actions to try to make contact 
with Mr H.
As Halifax wasnt able to make contact with Mr H and he wasnt responding to its 
communication attempts I do not find I can say Halifax was wrong to take further action. At 
the time the account was closed, and the default was applied I have nothing to suggest that 
Halifax was aware of Mr Hs mental health issues and so I cannot say that it was required to 
do anything differently.
Mr H contacted Halifax in March 2017. At this time, he explained his circumstances. Halifax 
responded to this information by saying that the default would be removed if Mr H made the 
required repayment within 60 days. I find this offer to assist Mr H reasonable. Unfortunately, 
Mr H didnt make the required repayment. I understand that this was a very difficult time for 
Mr H but as I do not find that the default was applied incorrectly or unfairly, I do not find that 
any further action was required by Halifax.
Overall, while I am very sorry to hear of Mr Hs health issues and I appreciate how difficult 
that past few years have been, as I do not find that Halifax has done anything wrong in 
regard to his account, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman