DRN-2010888
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In 2018 Mr A was unfortunately the victim of a scam. 
He believed at the time that he was making payments towards a cruise ship holiday that was 
planned for friends and family. As a result of this, throughout 2018 Mr A made payments to 
the scammer. The value of these payments totalled around £180,000. 
As soon as he realised the payments had been made as a result of a scam, Mr A reported 
this to the relevant parties which included Barclays and the police. Mr A feels that Barclays 
should have done more to protect him. The account where his money went was also a 
Barclays account and Mr A was unhappy that they had allowed a scammer to open and 
operate an account. 
Barclays responded to the complaint and said theyd fulfilled their obligations when opening 
the third partys account. They also said they had no reason to intervene in the payments 
that Mr A had instructed and that none of Mr As money remained in the beneficiary account 
to be returned. 
Mr A referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators didnt think we could 
consider all of Mr As complaint. In a broad summary he explained that we could look at what 
Barclays did to protect him as their customer. But we werent able to consider a complaint 
about the opening and operation of the scammers account as this fell outside our 
jurisdiction. Mr A accepted this. So our investigator then considered the merits of the 
complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. Whilst he sympathised with Mr As situation, 
he didnt think the payments stood out as unusual or out of character. And he didnt think 
Barclays had reason to intervene. Mr A disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im genuinely sorry to hear Mr A has lost a significant amount as a result of a scam. I accept 
that hes been a victim of crime here. But what I need to consider is whether Barclays should 
have done more in relation to the payments Mr A instructed?
Its accepted that Mr A authorised each of the payments made to the scammer which were 
all done through online banking. So, even though Mr A obviously didnt know he was being 
scammed at the time, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and the terms 
of his account, he is presumed liable in the first instance. 
However, taking account of the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators that their customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things), 
particularly given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Taken additional steps or made additional checks in some circumstances 
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have declined to make a payment altogether in order to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Between February and December 2018, Mr A made over 40 payments to the scammer. 
These varied in value from a few hundred pounds to around £13,000. Ive thought carefully 
about whether any of these payments ought to have stood out as unusual or suspicious to 
Barclays. To assess this clearly requires reference to what the common activity was on the 
account. 
Mr As account was well managed and typically maintained a healthy balance in the tens of 
thousands. There were card payments, direct debits and regular bill payments made from 
the account. It also wasnt unusual for large sums to be spent or transferred from the 
account. These include but arent limited to:
A debit card payment for around £23,000 in January 2018;
Two cheque payments each for around £25,000 in February 2018;
A bill payment of around £6,000 and a debit card payment of around £20,000 in April 
2018;
A bill payment and a card payment each for around £12,000 in May 2018;
In the context of these payments and others like them, I cant fairly say that even the largest 
of the payments made to the scammer would have stood out as unusual or out of character 
for this particular account. Further to this, the first few payments made were each for around 
£1,600. So whilst at that time the first would have been made to a new payee, it (and those 
that followed soon after) were relatively modest. Overall, I dont think Barclays are at fault for 
not questioning the payments at the time. 
There is a balance to be struck between allowing customers to operate their accounts and 
checking and questioning payments. Ive considered Mr As point that he has been 
previously contacted about payments of lesser value to have their authenticity verified. But 
overall, I dont think the activity on his account was so unusual that I could reasonably have 
expected Barclays to have intervened. 
Further to this, even if Barclays had considered the series of payments collectively to be 
unusual  Im not persuaded this would have made a difference. Mr A described how hed 
been introduced to the scammer by a close friend and that other relatives had also booked 
cruises through him. Hed even met the scammer in person and had been provided with genuine looking paperwork. Hed also checked online and had seen the rooms that he had 
been allocated changed from available to booked following his contact with the scammer. 
Mr A also checked the flight times and cruise itineraries at the time and he says he even 
checked the electoral role for the name of the person he was paying. 
It seems Mr A did all he reasonably could to verify what hed been told by the scammer. But 
because of the lengths hed already gone to, Im not persuaded that even if Barclays had 
contacted him, it would have changed things. Mr A had already conducted extensive checks 
and I think its most likely that he would have confirmed the payments to Barclays as 
genuine. In these particular circumstances, I dont think there is anything Barclays 
reasonably could have said to Mr A that would have enabled him to discover the scam and 
therefore prevent any further loss. Once Barclays had been made aware of the problem with 
the payments, they checked the beneficiary account  but sadly none of Mr As funds 
remained to be returned. 
The primary cause of Mr As loss is the criminal act of the scammer involved. And I hope the 
authorities successfully prosecute the responsible party and that this results in recovery of 
Mr As loss. But it would only be fair for me to direct Barclays to refund the payments if I 
think they are responsible for acts or omissions that either caused the loss or prevented the 
recovery. And within the context of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that is whats happened here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman