DRN-3609661
The complaint
Mr R complains about the amount hes been charged by LeasePlan UK Limited 
(LeasePlan) for damage to a car that he returned when his hire agreement ended. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan.
When the agreement ended in April 2022, the car was inspected. Damage was found and 
LeasePlan sent Mr R an invoice. Mr R complained to LeasePlan but it said the charges were 
correct. Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered each charge in detail against 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVLRA) guidelines on fair wear and tear 
and concluded that the damage fell outside fair wear and tear.
Mr R didnt agree. He provided further points and cross referenced these to the photos of the 
damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire agreement states, at section 10.6.1, that Mr R is responsible for the costs of repair 
of any loss or damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear where those costs exceed 
£150. The agreement also states that LeasePlan can reclaim from Mr R a sum equivalent to 
the estimated cost of repairs if it decides not to undertake repairs.
Mr R returned the car when the agreement ended and it was inspected by LeasePlan in April 
2022. The inspection report identified damage to the car with an estimated repair cost of 
£929. The report included photos of the damage.
Ive considered the damage identified in the inspection report including the photos of the 
damage and the video. I consider that the damage is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the fair wear and tear guidelines set 
by LeasePlan, which follow the recommendations set out by the BVLRA on fair wear and 
tear.
This is because, in relation to the scratches, the BVLRA guidelines state that scratches up to 
25mm are acceptable. Im satisfied that the scratches exceed 25mm on all the areas 
identified in the inspection report and are therefore outside fair wear and tear.
In relation to the wheels, the BVLRA guidelines state that scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the 
total circumference of the wheel trim and alloy wheels are acceptable. Im satisfied that the 
scuff damage to both wheels as identified in the inspection report is greater than 50mm and 
is therefore outside fair wear and tear.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the damage identified in the inspection report exceeds fair 
wear and tear in accordance with the BVLRA guidelines and that the charges for damage 
have been applied correctly. In the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for 
LeasePlan to charge Mr R £929 for the damage identified in the inspection report. I wont be 
asking LeasePlan to reduce or waive the charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman