DRN-3468321
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was unable to access his investment in a unit trust for three weeks 
as it was being transferred to a new provider  and during this period it lost value. He is 
unhappy he was denied the opportunity to manage his investments, so he thinks Legal & 
General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited should take responsibility for some or all his losses.
What happened
In late August 2021, Legal & General wrote to Mr A to let him know that his investments 
would be transferred to a new provider on 25 September 2021. It told him he would be able 
to view his investment online until the transfer takes place and the new provider would be in 
contact after the transfer with details on how to register for its online service.
On 24 September 2021, the transfer of Mr As investment to the new provider was complete. 
Mr A was contacted by the new provider and given access to his investment again. 
When Mr A was able to access his investment again, he discovered that it had lost 
approximately £500 in value. Following this he raised a complaint with Legal & General. He 
said he had lost out as a result of the way the transfer was handled and was unsatisfied by 
the management of his investment. He also raised a complaint with the new provider at the 
same time. 
Legal & General didnt uphold the complaint. It acknowledged that Mr A couldn't manage his 
investment online for a short period of time but didnt agree this was unreasonable as it was 
required to facilitate the smooth transfer to the new provider and it made him aware that this 
would happen. Mr A wasnt happy with the response, so referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Legal & General did inform Mr A ahead of the transfer and gave him details of the 
process and the date for when the transfer would be complete.
He was satisfied Legal & General did inform Mr A that he wouldnt have the same 
access to his investments that he normally did, until after the transfer had completed. 
And information was provided on what Mr A still could do and what he couldnt do 
with his investment.
The restrictions were put in place in order to make the transition as smooth as 
possible and it was reasonable to do so. 
Mr A still had full access to his investments by phone but there is no evidence to 
suggest he attempted to contact Legal & General during the transfer period. 
He didnt think Legal & General had a responsibility to tell Mr A that the value of his 
investments was falling. 
He hadnt seen evidence to support Mr As ascertain that his investment had been 
mis-managed by Legal & General. 
Finally, he didnt think Legal & General were responsible for losses Mr A claimed - 
including those relating to the loss of value of his investment and the consequential 
losses relating to the interest payments on his mortgage. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to reach 
a decision on his complaint. In summary he said:
When he tried to access details of his investment the week before 31st August 2021 
his holdings read as zero. The transfer booklet didn't tell him how to find out the 
value of his holdings other than to call. As he didn't know the holdings were dropping, 
he had no reason to call and the call handling times have been greater than 30 
minutes.
The initial information explained "the transfer period" which he read as for all 
customers to migrate. He didnt think for each customer it would take three to four 
weeks. 
He doesn't think the transfer process was thought through, Legal & General relied 
upon booklets that weren't expected to be read and it didn't provide the total account 
value as stated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr As disappointment with fall in value of investment. But in order to 
uphold the complaint I would need to be persuaded this was as a result of a failing by Legal 
& General. Having considered the available evidence, I dont find this to be the case, so I 
wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ahead of the transfer Legal & General provided investors with information to explain what 
would be happening. Ive reviewed the transfer information and brochure Legal & General 
says it provided to Mr A.  Within this document it gave a summary of what was happening, 
key dates and changes to online services. It confirms that you will still be able to view your 
account value online but that you wouldnt be able to top up, sell or switch between funds. 
But there is a note in bold that says Please note that whilst some services are limited online 
through My Account, you can continue to contact us by telephone to give instructions, 
subject to the deadlines detailed below. Then information is given on how close to the 
transfer date you can complete funds switches and withdrawals. 
Having reviewed this information Im satisfied that Legal & General provided clear 
information about the transfer and what Mr A could expect. I can see he was told there 
would be restricted online access and given sufficient information on how he could view his 
investments and make changes over the phone. I also think it is reasonable to expect Mr A 
to read the information he was provided with  and to query anything he was unsure of, such 
as whether it whether would take three to four weeks for all customers.  
Mr A says when he tried to access details of his investment the week before 31st August 
2021, his holdings read as zero. Legal & General says Mr A would still have been able to 
view the total value of his investment (despite access to place transactions online being 
turned off earlier) until they were migrated to the new provider. It also says the covering 
letter sent to Mr A with the transfer brochure set out the key dates for the transfer of his 
investments. This indicates that online access would be limited from the 16 September 2021 
and the transfer date was 25 September 2021. Legal & General has since confirmed the 
transfer actually completed a day earlier on 24 September 2021. It also noted Mr A hadnt 
previously mentioned that he was unable to view his investment online at the end of August 
2021. It says it would have expected him to make contact, so that it could provide information and investigate any technical issues. It also said no other customers reported 
this issue. 
I acknowledge its difficult for Mr A to now provide evidence of the account balance showing 
as zero at the end of August 2021. I also understand the points Legal & General make about 
the lack of evidence of Mr A querying that his investment was showing as holding no value. 
This does seem like something a customer would query if it wasnt what they were 
expecting.   I say this particularly in light of the complaint Mr A now makes and the actions 
he said he would have taken had he known his investment was falling. There is also 
evidence that Mr A was provided with the timeline to show when the transfer of his 
investment would be complete. The information provided by Legal and General indicates 
that Mr A was told the transfer and the limiting of online access wouldnt happen until later in 
September. So, while Mr A says he thought the transfer process had started when he 
checked his account in late August 2021, this isnt supported by the information Legal & 
General say it sent him. On balance, I dont think this information leads to me to say Legal & 
General restricted access to Mr As investments any longer that it said it would in the transfer 
information it sent. So, it follows that I havent found there was an error by Legal & General 
that resulted in Mr A suffering a loss. 
Mr A has suggested that Legal & General didnt tell him the value of his investments was 
falling, so he had no reasons to call. But I dont find that Legal & General had a monitoring 
responsibility for Mr As investment  so the fact it didnt proactively inform him about 
movements in value, doesnt lead me to find it did something wrong. If Mr A was concerned 
about the potential for his investment to fall in value  and he needed access to his funds for 
future plans he could have contacted Legal & General by phone. While I understand Mr As 
point that daily telephone calls would be unrealistic - I havent seen evidence that he did 
make any contact.
Ive noted and considered all of the comments Mr A has made, but Im not satisfied he has 
provided any persuasive evidence to support his complaint that Legal & General was 
negligent in the management of his investment or that it was mismanaged. In conclusion, as 
I havent found that Legal & General have made any errors when communicating or 
completing the transfer, I cant reach a finding that it is responsible for the losses Mr A 
claims  both the financial loss and the consequential loss. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman