DRN-2864584
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P complain about their insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead). Their 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim for damage to their garage roof and subsequent 
damage from a leak through the roof. References to Fairmead include their agents.
 
What happened
  In February 2020 Mr and Mrs Ps garage roof was damaged in a storm. Mr and Mrs P 
contacted Fairmead to make a claim for the damage. Fairmead appointed a contractor (C) 
providing a claims handling service for Fairmead to consider the claim. Mr and Mrs P were 
advised by C to arrange for repairs to be carried out to mitigate further damage taking place. 
Shortly after making their claim, Mr and Mrs P contacted Fairmead to say that they had 
engaged contractors to carry out repairs to the garage roof and that they would send 
photographs of the damage and a report detailing the repair work carried out. Fairmead 
passed this information to C for them to consider.
C contacted Mr and Mrs P in March 2020 to arrange for a surveyor to visit their property, but 
subsequently having reviewed the report and photographs they decided that a desktop 
validation would be sufficient. C subsequently prepared a Claim Validation Report that 
stated:
The damage to the felt and the ingress of rainwater occurred during severe weather 
conditions. However, the pre-existing degraded condition of the flat roof suggests 
that the loss was inevitable and should be seen as a general maintenance issue. The 
severe weather was merely the occasion on which the loss occurred, rather than 
being the direct cause of it.
Based on this report C declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
Following the decline of their claim, Mr and Mrs P contacted Fairmead to complain, unhappy 
at the way that C had handled their claim. They also felt that C had not considered all the 
available information in coming to their decision. In their Final Response Letter of April 2020 
Fairmead confirmed the decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim. They noted that Cs report 
to them did include the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs P as well as other information 
available to them. Fairmead did however acknowledge that, when writing to Mr and Mrs P 
declining their claim, C had erroneously stated that their surveyor had visited Mr and Mrs Ps 
property.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy at the outcome of their complaint and complained to this 
service in April 2020. The main issue of their complaint was that their claim should not have 
been declined, and that Fairmead should have paid for the cost of the repair to their garage 
roof. They also wanted Fairmead to pay for the damage caused to contents in the garage 
from water coming in through the damaged roof. They were also unhappy at being wrongly 
told by C that a surveyor had visited their home. 
Our investigator considered the complaint as well as further representations and evidence 
provided by Mr and Mrs P. The investigator issued a view which stated that the damage had 
more likely than not been caused by the storm rather than wear and tear or lack of 
maintenance. Based on this, the investigator concluded that Fairmead had unfairly declined 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim. The investigator recommended that Fairmead reimburse Mr and Mrs 
P for the cost of repairs to their garage roof, and that they should settle the element of claim 
relating to the damaged contents in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Fairmead disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators view that Fairmead should reimburse Mr 
and Mrs P for the cost of repairs to the garage roof. I concluded that that was evidence of a 
degree of wear and tear that is likely to have contributed to the damage, but not sufficient for 
Fairmead to have acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim outright by applying 
exclusion clauses in the policy. I went on to conclude that Fairmead should re-assess Mr 
and Mrs Ps claim (for both the damage to the garage roof and for damage to the contents) 
in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Because I disagreed 
with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs P.
The main part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that their claim should not have been rejected. 
Ive considered the evidence available concerning the incident, including Cs report, the 
evidence about the weather conditions at the time of the incident as well as the evidence 
provided by Mr and Mrs P in the form of the repair bill and the photos of the damage. 
The main issue in Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that they consider that their claim was unfairly 
declined by Fairmead. More specifically, the key aspect is the condition of their garage roof 
before it was damaged in the storm. Mr and Mrs P maintain that it was in good condition, 
supported by comment in third party contractor estimates for repair of the damage. Fairmead 
maintain, based on the report from C and other evidence, that the roof was suffering from 
deterioration and the damage was due to wear and tear and a lack of maintenance. 
Therefore the storm was not the cause of the damage that occurred.
While this is the main issue, Ive also considered other aspects of the complaint for 
completeness. First, the evidence from both Mr and Mrs P and from Fairmead shows that 
there were storm conditions at the time of the damage to the garage roof. Mention of storm 
damage appears in the report from C as well as the estimates from third party contractors. 
The weather data for the area of Mr and Mrs Ps property is also consistent with storm 
conditions being present. Second, the damage to the garage roof is consistent with the 
damage we would expect to see in a storm. Again this is clear from the evidence Ive seen 
and neither Mr and Mrs P nor Fairmead have suggested otherwise.
Ive therefore concentrated on the issue of whether the main cause of the damage was the 
storm itself (as Mr and Mrs P contend) or whether the pre-existing condition of the roof was 
the main cause (as Fairmead contend). Ive therefore considered both views.
Taking Mr and Mrs Ps position first, they maintain that the roof was in good condition at the 
time of the damage. The principal evidence they cite to support this view is from (in particular) one of the three estimates for repairing the damaged roof from third party 
contractors. The key section of that estimate states:
On arrival I inspected the roof and referred (sic) a Re-Roof. Due to the heavy 
stormit had caused substantial damage to the roof by lifting the feltThe roof itself 
would have been fine before the storm as I could see it was laid very well.
As this comes from a third party contractor with experience of roofing, and from a physical 
inspection of the damaged roof shortly after the damage occurred I think it carries weight.
Turning to Fairmeads position, they cite a number of points to support their view that the 
roof was in a degraded position before the incident. These include the report from C 
produced at the time of the incident. They have also produced publicly available images of 
the garage that they maintain show areas of deterioration and moss growth, although these 
images are from some years before the incident. They also maintain that similar images of 
the area around Mr and Mrs Ps garage show other garages of a similar age and 
construction showing signs of wear and tear.
Fairmead have also provided their own guidelines about the longevity of felt flat roofs of the 
type fitted to Mr and Mrs Ps garage These guidelines indicate a life normally between 8 - 10 
years. They have also stated that there was no evidence of maintenance work being carried 
out on the garage roof by Mr and Mrs P, and I have listened to the recordings of a 
conversation between them and Mr and Mrs P that indicate that there wasnt maintenance 
over the last couple of years.
Ive considered the points made by Fairmead, including the photographs of the garage roof 
after the incident. They do indicate some deterioration, although it is not possible to 
determine the extent to which that was caused by the storm, as opposed to any pre-existing 
deterioration. Taken together with the publicly available images of the garage (albeit that 
they were taken some years before the incident) Ive concluded that while the evidence from 
the comment in the third party estimate mentioned carries weight because of its arising from 
a physical inspection immediately after the incident, it is likely that there was some (my 
emphasis) degree of wear and tear present, particularly in the absence of any indication of 
recent maintenance.
My provisional conclusion is that the evidence doesnt show that the damage to the roof was 
primarily due to pre-existing deterioration, lack of maintenance or wear and tear. I think that 
there is evidence of a degree of wear and tear that is likely to have contributed to the 
damage, but not sufficient for Fairmead to have acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
outright by applying exclusion clauses in the policy.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. I intend to direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to re-assess Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
(for both the damage to the garage roof and for damage to the contents) in accordance with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.  Mr and Mrs P responded to say that they agreed with the content of the 
provisional decision and with the decision. Fairmead responded to say that they had no 
further evidence or challenge. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both Fairmead and Mr and Mrs P, respectively have no further evidence or challenge, 
and they agree with the provisional decision, I havent changed my view and my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to re-assess Mr and Mrs Ps claim (for both the 
damage to the garage roof and for damage to the contents) in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman