DRN-3893167
The complaint
Mr B complains that his Experian Limited credit score unfairly reduced when he opened a 
new utilities account.
What happened
Mr Bs told us that last year he signed up for a new utilities agreement with a supplier. 
Around a month later, Mr B noticed his Experian credit score had dropped. When Mr B 
checked his credit file he found two entries recorded by the utilities supplier, one for 
electricity and the other for gas. 
Mr B contacted Experian and raised concerns that two entries had been added to his credit 
file and that theyd reduced his credit score unfairly. Mr Bs told us he spent a long time on 
the phone with Experian and found the service to be poor. Mr B made a complaint. 
Experian issued a final response to Mr B but didnt agree it had made a mistake with his 
credit report. Experian said his utilities supplier was reporting two separate entries, one for 
electricity and the other for gas. Experian also gave some details about why the credit score 
had gone down. Experian advised that the credit score (the number it gives customers) isnt 
shared with lenders or businesses when a credit search is completed. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us. Within its file submission, Experian said it wanted to offer 
Mr B £25 to apologise for any service issues hed experienced. Our investigator looked at Mr 
Bs complaint. They didnt agree that Experian had made a mistake with Mr Bs credit file 
and thought its offer of £25 was a fair way to resolve his complaint. Mr B asked to appeal 
and said he wasnt expecting two entries from his utilities supplier on his credit file and that 
there were issues with the business names recorded. As Mr B asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand Mr B wasnt expecting to see two entries from his utilities supplier on his credit 
file. But Experian doesnt control the information reported on its credit files by businesses. 
And Experians provided systems evidence to show that Mr Bs utilities supplier recorded 
separate entries for the electricity and gas. Whilst I understand why Mr B feels this is 
unreasonable, its not something Experian has control over. Mr B has the option of visiting 
the issue with his utilities supplier, but Im satisfied Experian has correctly set out the entries 
on his credit file. 
Mr B also complains that his credit score dropped unfairly when the entries were added. But 
credit scores go up and down over time, based on a consumers circumstances. Experians 
explained that the addition of the new entries to Mr Bs credit file did negatively impact his 
credit score. Its also explained that the reason Mr Bs score went down is because the new 
entries had a limited track record or history. I can see Mr B feels the reduction in his credit 
score is unreasonable, but Im satisfied its explained how the score was impacted and why. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent seen anything that shows Experians made a 
mistake with his credit score. 
Experians credit score isnt shared with businesses or lenders. The score is given to 
customers as a tool to understand how businesses and lenders may view their credit file. But 
the score itself remains private. Businesses will use their own criteria when checking a credit 
file, not the score Experian provides to customers. So even though the credit score reduced, 
it wasnt something that wouldve directly impacted any applications Mr B has made. 
Mr Bs told us he found the service provided by Experian when he raised the issues to be 
poor. Mr Bs also told us he spent over an hour on the phone without being able to resolve 
the issue. I think Mr Bs frustration likely reflects the fact Experian declined to amend his 
credit file as requested, but I accept the service shouldve been better. Experians offered Mr 
B £25 to apologise for any distress and inconvenience caused. Ive read and considered 
everything Mr Bs told us about his complaint and how the issues raised impacted him. In my 
view, the £25 offer fairly reflects the service provided and impact to Mr B. As I havent found 
evidence of mistakes and Experian has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances, Im not telling to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Experian should pay Mr B £25. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman