DRN-3660179
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
when he tried to contact it about unlocking his PIN.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with Barclaycard. Earlier this year, his PIN was locked on his online 
login device. He says he tried calling Barclaycard numerous times to try and resolve the 
issue but was on hold for over an hour each time and got no response. He says that 
Barclaycard failed to provide a suitable service.
Mr B says that in the end he managed to find out, by doing an internet search, that he could 
unlock the PIN at an ATM. He managed to do this, but hes unhappy about the time he spent 
trying to speak to Barclaycard, looking into the issue himself and travelling to the ATM. He 
says this was frustrating and inconvenient as well as causing him expense in the form of call 
costs and petrol. 
He complained to Barclaycard and requested compensation. Barclaycard apologised for the 
call wait times. It said this was due to a high number of customers contacting it by phone and 
said it was doing all it could to support customers and reduce wait times where possible. But 
it didnt offer Mr B any compensation as it said the call wait times were largely out of its 
control.
Mr B wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
said that Barclaycard should pay him compensation for the poor level of service, the 
inconvenience and the expense he had incurred. Our Investigator didnt think Barclaycard 
needed to do anything. But Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard accepts that Mr B experienced long call wait times. But it says that calls to its 
number are free from UK landlines and personal mobiles. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr B was charged for the calls. So I dont find that Barclaycard needs to reimburse any call 
costs.
Ive thought about whether Barclaycard needs to compensate Mr B for the stress and 
inconvenience of trying unsuccessfully to get through on the phone. Im sure this was a very 
frustrating experience and I dont doubt that Mr B spent a significant amount of time waiting 
on hold. But I dont think that was entirely within Barclaycards control. And Im satisfied that 
the information about how to unlock the PIN was available on Barclaycards website. So Mr 
B was able to find out what he needed to know quickly and easily without speaking to 
someone on the phone. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclaycard needs to compensate 
Mr B for the frustration or inconvenience he experienced in relation to the phone calls.
Barclaycards website said that Mr B could unlock his PIN by visiting an ATM. Barclaycard 
says that Mr B would have been given the same information if hed got through on the 
phone. So I dont think he was disadvantaged by the fact that he didnt speak to anyone. 
Hed have had to go to the ATM either way, so the time and any cost incurred by him in 
doing that would have arisen in any event.
The visit to the ATM was successful as Mr B was able to unlock his PIN. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Barclaycard was at fault for the PIN being locked in the first place. 
So I dont think Barclaycard needs to reimburse Mr Bs petrol costs for visiting the ATM or 
compensate him for his time in doing so.
I realise my decision will be disappointing to Mr B. But I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman