DRN-4052988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about how Euroins AD (Euroins) handled a claim under their travel 
insurance policy when Mr S experienced a medical emergency abroad.  
All references to Euroins include the agents appointed to handle claims and complaints on 
its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Euroins. 
Unfortunately, during a holiday abroad, Mr S was injured while he was a passenger on a 
motorcycle. Mrs S notified Euroins that Mr S was in hospital, and Euroins said it would deal 
with Mr Ss case. After a few days, Euroins told Mrs S it was waiting for its medical team to 
review the relevant reports and other information, to confirm if cover was in place. Euroins 
subsequently told Mrs S not to worry about her and Mr Ss original return flights, and that it 
was looking into arranging repatriation. 
Over two weeks after Euroins was first notified about the claim, it said there was no cover for 
the incident under Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy because of an exclusion relating to riding 
on a motorcycle with an engine capacity in excess of 250cc. Mr and Mrs S ultimately 
arranged their own flights back to the UK.
Mr and Mrs S disputed Euroins decision to decline the claim and made a complaint, but 
Euroins stopped responding to them. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S brought the matter to the 
attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought Euroins 
decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim was fair. However, he said he thought Euroins 
should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation for their disappointment and loss of 
expectation arising from the delays in being told their claim wasnt covered. 
Euroins accepted our investigators opinion but Mr and Mrs S didnt. As a resolution couldnt 
be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to make a decision as the final stage in 
our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also say insurers 
must handle claims promptly and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a 
claim, as well as appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these rules into account 
when making my decision about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S dont appear to dispute that their claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy but, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Euroins acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by declining this claim. Im satisfied that the general exclusion which 
Euroins quoted to Mr and Mrs S applies to the circumstances of this case, even though Mr S 
was a passenger on the motorcycle rather than driving it himself. 
However, Euroins didnt handle this claim as Id have expected it to. Two days after it was 
notified about the incident, Euroins told Mrs S that the claim was subject to review and 
confirmation of cover but I think Euroins could have been much clearer in its subsequent 
communications with Mrs S in explaining that cover wasnt yet approved. I can understand 
why Mrs S thought the claim was being covered.  
Euroins was aware from the first point of claim notification that the incident arose when Mr S 
was a passenger on a motorcycle which was extremely unlikely to have an engine size of 
less than 250cc. However, Euroins didnt ask Mrs S for further details about this until over a 
week later. And, when Euroins did make the decision that the claim wasnt covered, Mrs S 
wasnt told about this for a further two days. In circumstances such as these, Id expect 
Euroins to have investigated, identified and communicated to Mrs S that the claim wasnt 
covered sooner than it did. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S experienced disappointment and loss of expectation as a 
result of how Euroins handled their claim. Ive also taken into account the distress and 
inconvenience which I think Mr and Mrs S experienced because of Euroins delays, lack of 
contact and lack of clear communication at certain points, as well as its failure to respond to 
Mrs Ss emails as the claim progressed. 
However, when deciding what level of compensation I think is warranted, I have no power to 
punish or fine a business and I must have regard to the fact that this claim was never 
covered under Mr and Mrs Ss policy. Furthermore, I dont think Euroins changed its reasons 
for declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim. Instead, I think Euroins tried to explain why this exclusion 
is contained within the policy in an attempt to aid Mr and Mrs Ss understanding of the 
situation. And, Ive seen evidence that Euroins was making enquiries about an eventual 
repatriation for Mr S. So, Im satisfied that Euroins did what it told Mrs S it was going to do in 
relation to this issue  regardless of whether Euroins communicated this to Mrs S at the 
time. 
Mr and Mrs S say the compensation which our investigator recommended wasnt at an 
appropriate level and I can understand their strength of feeling about Euroins actions in this 
case. But, overall, having considered all the circumstances surrounding this complaint, Im 
satisfied that an award of £200 is fair and reasonable for the impact of what I think Euroins 
mistakes were on Mr and Mrs S. 
Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Euroins to pay what 
Mrs S has described as the aviation fines charged to amend the original return flights back 
to the UK. 
Mr and Mrs S originally paid a total of £1322 in return fares and £1258.12 in taxes and fees 
for their entire trip. These were described on the original booking invoice as non-refundable. 
The amended confirmation invoice also shows costs for the entire trip (i.e., the original 
outbound flights and new return flights on a later date than was originally scheduled), for the 
same amounts in return fares and taxes and fees. The amended confirmation invoice shows 
an additional charge, described as Amendment fee airline, was imposed. 
When Euroins was first notified of this claim and when Mrs S first contacted her flight 
booking agent, it was clear that Mr S wasnt going to be fit to fly on his original return date - but the date on which Mr S would be fit to fly was unknown. Mrs S said the booking agent 
outlined a few options to her  neither of which she could agree to at that time because of 
the uncertainty surrounding when Mr S would be fit to fly  so instead she asked Euroins to 
cancel the original return flight. I accept that Euroins could have been clearer in 
communicating with Mrs S about what it was (or wasnt) going to do in terms of cancelling 
the original return flights but, even if Euroins had contacted the flight booking agent when 
Mrs S asked it to, Euroins wouldnt have been able to confirm when the flights could be 
rebooked for. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs S would always have had some element 
of financial loss or additional financial outlay relating to their original return flights in 
circumstances where their claim wasnt covered under their policy. It seems likely that Mr 
and Mrs S would either need to have borne the loss relating to their original unused return 
flights (which were described as non-refundable) and paid for the full cost of new flights back 
to the UK or paid a flight amendment fee. So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct Euroins to pay 
the amendment fee which Mr and Mrs S were charged. 
Putting things right
Euroins AD needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs S a total of £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience they experienced.
Euroins AD must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in part and I direct Euroins AD to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman