DRN-3505278
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he bought from Close Brothers Limited under a conditional sale 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality. He says he should be able to reject it. 
What happened
On 22 November 2021 Mr S signed a four-year conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The car was some ten years old and had covered around 92,000 miles. Its cash price was 
£4,294.
Mr S says that the cars oil needed topping up within a few days. He says too that, although 
it was advertised as having 12 months MOT, it did not. He contacted Close Brothers on 11 
December 2021 to say that he had contacted the dealership, which was going to inspect the 
car within a few days.
On 16 December 2021 Mr S had the rocker cover gasket replaced, in an attempt to cure  an 
oil leak. He paid £192 for the repair. The mechanic noted that there was a possible further 
leak from the rear crank seal.
A few days later, on 20 December 2021, Mr S arranged for the RAC to inspect the car, as he 
was still having problems with it. That inspection noted: there was an intermittent misfire; one 
of the spark plugs was cross-threaded; there was evidence of an oil leak on the gearbox; 
there was an oil leak from the cam cover gasket; and the cam belt cover was not correctly 
secured.
Mr S contacted Close Brothers and a further inspection was arranged. An engineer from 
ACE inspected the car on 19 January 2022. Those inspection findings were largely 
consistent with the RACs findings  the engine was misfiring and there were oil leaks from 
the crankshaft and engine sump. The report concluded however that it was unlikely that 
these faults were present or developing at delivery; it noted that Mr S had driven around 
4,000 miles since he took delivery of the car.
Relying to a large extent on the findings of the ACE report, Close Brothers wrote to Mr S to 
say that it did not accept responsibility for the cars faults. Mr S referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered the case. She took the view that the 
faults with the car were matters of wear and tear and that it was likely the car had been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. She did not recommend that Close 
Brothers take any further action.
Mr S did not accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
The conditional sale contract was to be read as including a term that the car be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. Those circumstances include the cars age, price and mileage.
Mr Ss car had a high mileage, was ten years old and was heavily discounted when 
compared with a newer car of the same make and model. It was, I think, to be expected that 
it would need more than routine maintenance over the four years of the conditional sale 
agreement.
There can be no real dispute that the car had faults and that these developed within a very 
short time. Mr S contacted Close Brothers about the oil level within three weeks of taking 
delivery, and the first leak was diagnosed just a few days later.
The repair carried out on 16 December was not successful, and the car experienced similar 
issues a few days later. The RAC report identified a number of issues, including a  cross 
threaded spark plug. That report simply stated what was wrong with the car, but  not 
surprisingly  did not express any view about whether it was of satisfactory quality or had 
been at delivery.
The ACE report was however arranged with a view to answering that question. That is, it 
both reported on the cars condition and expressed a view about its likely quality at the point 
of delivery. Mr S says that the inspection was quite brief  around ten minutes  and that no 
road test was carried out. The RAC inspection report indicates that its engineer spent more 
than 90 minutes checking the car. I note that the ACE report does not reference the RACs 
report and, whilst it says there is no evidence of previous unsuccessful repairs, does not 
refer to the spark plug issue. It makes no reference to the repairs carried out in December 
2021.
The ACE engineer concluded that the faults would not have been present at delivery. That 
conclusion appears to have been based to a large degree on the fact that Mr S had been 
able to drive the car around 4,000 miles.
Where an item is not of satisfactory quality within six months of delivery, the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 places the burden on the supplier to show that it was of satisfactory quality 
at delivery. I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be, but I must 
take relevant law into account. In my view, the ACE report does not satisfactorily explain its 
conclusion that the faults with the car were not developing or present at the point of sale.
Mr S was told that the car had an MOT certificate, valid for 12 months. In fact, its next 
inspection was due in February 2022. In making statements about the car, the dealership 
was, or was to be taken as, acting on behalf of Close Brothers. Mr S arranged an MOT test 
as soon as he took delivery of the car. The car passed the test, but Mr S should not have 
had to do that, having been told it was not necessary. I observe however that the test largely 
concerns issues of safety and roadworthiness, not overall quality. None of the faults that Mr 
S later identified was a matter of roadworthiness or safety.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out a number of possible remedies where goods are 
not of satisfactory quality. They include repair, replacement, a refund, a reduction in price 
and rejection of the goods. I have considered carefully what is appropriate here. In my view, 
Mr S should be allowed to reject the car and have refunds of the additional expenses he has 
incurred. I note however that he has had some use of it, although it appears he has made no 
payments since January 2022. I do not believe it would be fair to require Close Brothers to 
refund the monthly payments that Mr S has made.
In conclusion, I do not believe that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr S. To resolve the complaint, he should be put in broadly the position he would have been 
if he had not entered into the agreement, to the extent that is possible.I recommended that Close Brothers end the agreement, reimburse repair and inspection 
costs, refund the deposit Mr S had paid, and pay Mr S a further £250 in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which he had been put.   
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S said the RAC inspection had been included as 
part of his membership package. He had paid £54.85 for the MOT test. He said too that he 
had started court action against the dealership. He had withdrawn those proceedings when it 
appeared that our consideration of his complaint would resolve matters sooner than he had 
thought. I note as well that he was able to recover his deposit though his bank.  
Close Brothers did not respond to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disputed my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them  
other than to remove the requirement that Close Brothers refund the cost of the RAC 
inspection (since it was included in Mr Ss membership package) and the deposit. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ss complaint in full, Close 
Brothers Limited should:
end the conditional sale agreement, with nothing further to pay;
arrange for the collection of the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund the cost of the MOT test, £54.85, together with interest at 8% a year simple from 
22 November 2021 until the date of the refund;
refund the cost of repairs, £192, together with interest at 8% a year simple from 16 
December 2021 until the date of the refund; 
remove any information registered with credit reference agencies in relation to the 
agreement; and
pay Mr S £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman