DRN-4041781
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G says he called HSBC on 11 February 2022 to tell it he had changed address in 
November 2021. He says he had no access to online banking and HSBC didnt call him back 
after security was failed during that call. Mr G says HSBC wrote to him at his old address 
and he didnt receive those letters which would have included default letters. He says he 
could have repaid the debt if HSBC had for example called him back and communicated with 
him more effectively. Mr G would like the default that HSBC has registered on his credit file 
removed and says he later repaid the full account balance.
HSBC says Mr G changed his address during a call on 24 February 2022 and failed security 
when he called on 11 February 2022. It says it sent letters including default letters to Mr Gs 
registered address. HSBC says Mr G hadnt made required payments since September 
2021 and he called it on 29 December 2021 asking it about a payment plan, but the call 
disconnected. It says it didnt make a mistake by registering a default.
Mr G brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC acted in line with account terms and conditions by registering a default when 
Mr G failed to make required payments. The investigator thought Mr G was aware of the 
arrears.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and in summary says he would have been able to repay the 
debt from January 2022, but HSBC made no attempt to contact him. Mr G says he couldnt 
make any payments as he didnt have telephone banking and lived some distance from a 
HSBC branch. He says he did try and make a payment on 11 February 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Gs account terms and conditions which I am satisfied he would 
have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear 
that Mr G is required to make a minimum monthly repayment to HSBC and that a failure to 
do so entitles HSBC to end the agreement. I have looked at HSBCs records and can see 
that Mr G didnt make required payments to HSBC from October 2021 until some time after 
the default was registered in around March 2022. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake by 
writing to Mr G telling him his account was in arrears or in taking steps to end the agreement 
when it became clear Mr G was no longer making required monthly payments. I find HSBC 
acted in line with account terms and conditions and that this was Mr Gs account which he 
was responsible for managing.
The Information Commissioners Office provides guidance on the registering of a default and 
suggests an account should be defaulted between three and six months of arrears. Im 
satisfied that HSBC sent Mr G default letters from January 2022 onwards which was 
between those dates. I think HSBC was reasonably entitled to conclude that the relationship 
between it and Mr G had broken down at that stage with no required payments since 
September 2021.
I have listened to the call between the parties of 29 December 2021. Having done so Im 
satisfied Mr G was clearly told required payments had been missed and what his account 
balance was, which was over £5,000. Im also satisfied Mr G was told to make a payment by 
17 January 2022. So, I think by that stage Mr G ought reasonably to have realised he hadnt 
made required payments for some months and that he owed HSBC over £5,000. I 
appreciate the call ended but I would have expected Mr G to have called HSBC back or 
made required payments before 17 January 2022. 
I appreciate Mr G says he moved address in November 2021 and tried to update HSBC 
during the failed call,in early February 2022. I dont know why Mr G didnt update HSBC with 
the new address in November 2021 or during the call of 29 December 2021 when he 
provided his previous postcode. Im satisfied that its Mr Gs responsibility to update HSBC 
but, in any event, think Mr G was told about the arrears in December 2021. And that he 
ought to have realised that by missing some months of required payments that HSBC would 
consider defaulting his account.
Overall, I find this was Mr Gs account and his responsibility to make required payments. I 
dont think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly by registering a default on Mr Gs 
account. I appreciate there were communication issues after the default was registered 
which HSBC offered £100 compensation. I dont think those matters are linked to the main 
part of this complaint which is about the default. And am satisfied that offer is fair and 
reasonable for that distinct part of the complaint. I dont think it clear why Mr G couldnt make 
required monthly repayments in a HSBC branch or attend a branch to update it about any 
financial difficulties or the change of address. I think it unlikely he lived a significant distance 
from a HSBC branch.
It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC remove the default on Mr Gs credit file which I find 
was correctly applied. This now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman