DRN-3044195
The complaint
Mr D complains about the transfer of his stakeholder pension to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in 2015. He says he missed out on investment returns, and paid excessive 
fees, as a result of the transfer. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
responsible.
What happened
A brief summary of the circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, 
were set out in my provisional decision. 
In short, in 2015, Mr D transferred the benefits he had in a stakeholder pension to The Orbis 
SIPP administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). The proceeds 
of Mr Ds transfer were put into a deposit account. Shortly after the transfer, Mr D took his 
tax-free cash from the SIPP leaving the residual amount (valued at just over £30,000) in the 
SIPPs deposit account. Mr D says he lost out on investment returns because this residual 
amount remained in cash. He also said he had to pay unnecessarily high charges as a result 
of transferring to the SIPP. In 2017, Mr D transferred his pension  valued at that point at a 
little under £30,000  to another pension provider.
Mr D complained to Wellington Court in 2018. In response, Wellington Court said Mr D has 
never been its customer, so it has no case to answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr D to 
Wellington Court is fraudulent. Mr D referred his complaint to us. 
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence that 
was available to me. I repeat what I said here:
Review of evidence as described in my provisional decision
1. Documents provided by Mr D and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr D and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Ds behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN Group 
(administrators and trustees) on 29 July 2015. The letter is signed on the behalf of 
Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable. 
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather 
than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed by 
hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An 
incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  
the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. 
The form was signed on 28 July 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr D on 24 July 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr D on 24 July 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr D had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company")
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
Mr D signed the form on 24 July 2015.
VI. The Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of Mr Ds 
transfer, including the policy number of the pension he was transferring from and the 
transfer value. This was signed by Mr D on 24 July 2015.
VII. Various documents from Mr Ds transferring scheme.
VIII. A deed setting up the SIPP, dated 24 July 2015. This was signed by Mr D, a witness 
and by a representative of GMTC. [Note: the deed was recorded as not being signed 
by Mr D in my provisional decision.]
IX. A letter dated 3 August 2015 from GMTC to Mr D acknowledging his application to 
open the SIPP. 
X. Various documents from later on in 2015 relating to Mr Ds request to access tax-free 
cash.
XI. A letter from GMTC dated 10 November 2016 (the year may have been a 
typographical error on GMTCs part) to Mr D confirming his acceptance as a member 
of the SIPP as of 17 August 2015. A policy schedule was also provided. 
XII. Various documents from 2016 and 2017 relating to Mr Ds subsequent change of 
adviser and transfer out of the SIPP to a new pension provider.
  
2. Mr Ds recollectionsMr D says he was initially contacted by telephone. He says the opportunity to transfer to 
a different pension in order to improve returns and release his tax-free cash was 
discussed. He says he isnt sure who this conversation was with, but he says everything 
was arranged over the telephone and by post. He says he didnt hear anything further 
after the transfer until another adviser investigated what had happened and told him his 
pension had remained in cash. As a result, Mr D transferred to another pension provider 
in 2017 and complained to Wellington Court. 
3. Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Ds complaint later in 
my decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided any 
documents in relation to Mr Ds transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr D and that 
Mr D has never been a client of Wellington Court. 
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of 
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of 
transfer. 
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but 
it hasnt done so. It did, however, provide notes of a meeting it had with the regulator, 
the FCA, in 2016 in which Wellington Courts work with GMTC was discussed. [In my 
provisional decision I quoted from these notes. I havent done so here because it isnt 
essential to the outcome of the case.]  
4. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr D
Mr D transferred £40,732.14 from his stakeholder pension to the Orbis SIPP on 
17 August 2015. A 1% fee on this amount (along the lines of the initial fee in the 
Adviser Remuneration Form described above) would equal £407.32. According to his 
SIPP transaction statement, this exact amount was taken from Mr Ds transfer value on 
25 August. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as a Wellington IFA fee and was 
paid from the SIPP deposit account (with Metro Bank) to the GMTC client account (with 
NatWest Bank) on 25 August. The £407.32 was included with 13 other 1% fees for other 
individuals and the total amount, which came to £6,573.32, was then paid from the 
GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account on 25 August. The £6,573.32 
appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as GM IFA FEES.  
5. Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ds case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that 
has been collected in relation to Mr Ds case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal 
for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr P  and the name of an introducer. II. Paperwork from other cases show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these cases.
III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed. But its apparent that for many other individuals, they invested in Dolphin 
Trust (a German property investment that has since failed) and that they signed a 
one-page investment instruction in order to make that investment. There is no such 
instruction in Mr Ds case, which accounts for why Mr Ds SIPP remained invested in 
cash (although why Mr D didnt complete an investment instruction isnt clear). 
IV. Other payments to Wellington Court 
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ds were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM 
ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear but this payment does include Mr Ds 
£407.32 payment). The payment reference that was to appear (and did appear) 
on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ds case and other similar cases. 
Its not necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries 
for September 2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at 
least £87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in 
relation to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible 
that payments were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being 
received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August 
and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August. This is because Wellington Court has 
only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see no plausible reason 
why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court and Ill proceed 
on that basis. 
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr D (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Ds pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Ds transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr D (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP, and the investments intended to be held in the SIPP. I thought 
the documentary evidence persuasively showed that the 1% fees were then paid to 
Wellington Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court 
didnt query them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt 
query them at the time, I concluded that the fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court 
had argued  but were in line with what it was expecting for its involvement in the transfers in 
question. I therefore provisionally concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory 
business relating to the transfer of pensions  including Mr Ds pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Ds complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr D was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr D brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.With regards to the merits of Mr Ds complaint, I noted Wellington Court doesnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Ds transfer. I 
didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew it 
had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because  given 
the advisory relationship between the parties  the key point was whether the transfer was 
suitable. And on this point I was satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable because Mr D 
ended up investing in cash rather than riskier assets such as equities which would have 
been a more suitable approach for someone in his position.
I provisionally upheld Mr Ds complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to respond. Mr D had no further comments. Wellington Court made a 
number of comments, which I address below.
What did Wellington Court say in response?
Wellington Courts response contained, in aggregate, over 50 bullet points. Its arguments 
werent specific to Mr Ds case but were intended to apply to a number of similar cases. 
Because a number of its comments overlap, I think its reasonable to group and summarise 
Wellington Courts response as follows:
1. The Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt undertaken a thorough investigation into the 
complaint and the provisional decision includes findings that are unwarranted and not 
based on the evidence. The Financial Ombudsman Service is biased and is trying to 
frame Wellington Court.
2. Evidence hasnt been shared; a full disclosure would be required in court.
3. There are no grounds for complaint because the complainants have never been clients 
of Wellington Court. Any transfer paperwork that refers to Wellington Court is fraudulent 
and paperwork that looks to have originated from Wellington Court has been cloned. 
Complainants testimony does little to prove Wellington Courts involvement and 
Wellington Court has testimony from at least one client that says it didnt advise him and 
had no role in arranging his pension. No evidence has been provided of any direct 
contact between Wellington Court and the complainants or Dolphin Capital (where many 
complainants invested). 
4. The adviser on the paperwork  Mr P from Wellington Court  was not a registered 
advisor and therefore couldnt give advice on the transfers in question.
5. GMTC accepted business directly from individuals and from unauthorised advisers and 
introducers. 
6. GMTC, and its associates, were running a scam. The FCA should have known this and 
advised Wellington Court and the Financial Ombudsman Service of this at the time. 
GMTC and others are now involved in a mammoth cover-up of what happened.
7. Wellington Court isnt responsible for the operational failures of GMTC or its regulatory 
supervision. It is being held liable because it is the last man standing. It may be the 
victim of a turf war going on between various regulatory agencies. It has been singled 
out for being an Irish company. 8. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed to recognise the obligations of GMTC, in 
particular in relation to undertaking due diligence on the underlying assets held in its 
SIPPs.
9. Because the complainants werent clients of Wellington Court, it cant comment on their 
previous pension arrangements, or their attitude to risk and needs.
10. Wellington Courts advisory involvement with GMTC was limited to three clients, the files 
for which have previously been given to the FCA. It makes little sense that Wellington 
Court has files for these three clients yet doesnt have files for other clients that it 
supposedly advised.
11. Wellington Court wouldnt have risked its reputation and licence by supporting 
unregulated activities.
12. The claims management companies (CMCs) that represent many complainants are 
bringing unwarranted complaints for commercial gain and are being encouraged by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to do so. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed 
to report fraudulent activities of CMCs and their clients to the police. 
13. To resolve matters, Wellington Court has proposed the following:
A conference call with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigation to be conducted by Wellington Court on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services behalf, for an agreed fee.  
14. Wellington Court reserves the right to take legal action against the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and any other parties.
Wellington Court has also provided telephone notes and emails which, in its view, support its 
position that the complainants cant recollect, and therefore couldnt have been clients of, 
Wellington Court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this means Ive considered everything Wellington Court has 
said, although I will limit my findings to those areas that I now consider to be relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint and the process by which that outcome has been reached. 
Interpreting the evidence
My starting point here, as it was in my provisional decision, is the evidence that points to 
Wellington Court being paid advisory fees in relation to a number of transfers to the Orbis 
SIPP in 2015. I outlined this evidence in my provisional decision. Ive repeated it in the 
review of evidence section above. To recap, the evidence was four-fold.
First, Mr D and many others signed an Adviser Remuneration Form which appointed Mr P 
of Wellington Court to provide advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP and any related 
investments held in that SIPP. The fee for that advice was recorded as being 1%.Second, Mr Ds SIPP statement shows that a 1% Wellington IFA fee was taken from his 
transfer value on 25 August 2015. This was then paid from the SIPP deposit account to the 
GMTC client account on 25 August 2015. The £407.32 was included with 13 other 1% fees 
for other individuals transferring to the Orbis SIPP and the total amount, which came to 
£6,573.32, was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account 
on 25 August 2015. The £6,573.32 appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as GM 
IFA FEES. 
Third, 1% fees along the same lines were paid from GMTC to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to a large number of other transfers to the Orbis SIPP over a six 
month period in 2015. Payments of at least £87,000 relating to at least 200 policies were 
paid in this period. The payment references were GM IFA FEES or something equally 
clear.
Fourth, Wellington Court didnt at any point query the above payments despite them being 
substantial and all clearly coming from the same source  GMTC. 
My view was, and remains, that this evidence is critical to the outcome of the complaint. It 
shows that many individuals  Mr D included  agreed to pay Wellington Court 1% of their 
transfer value for advice on the Orbis SIPP and their proposed investments. And it 
persuasively shows that Wellington Court received 1% payments in relation to those 
transfers. Wellington Court didnt query why it was receiving these fees. And its difficult to 
see how Wellington Court could have overlooked the payments  they are simply too large 
to not notice. It would also have had to have overlooked the payments when preparing its 
financial accounts which also strikes me as being unlikely given the impact the fees had on 
its income in this period. So its reasonable to conclude from all this that the fees were in line 
with what Wellington Court had been expecting from GMTC for its role in the transfers. 
Putting all this together, Im satisfied Wellington Court was paid a 1% advice fee for the 
transfer of Mr Ds pension and many others like it. 
Wellington Court hasnt questioned the money trail outlined in my provisional decision and 
repeated in 4 and 5(iv) of my review of evidence section above. And it didnt satisfactorily 
explain why it received payments of at least £87,000 from GMTC over a six month period. In 
fact, it doesnt directly address the issue at all in response to my provisional decision which 
is a significant omission given how central it is to the outcome of the complaint. 
For completeness, however, Wellington Court has previously said it did some consultancy 
work for GMTC. It says this involved checking people werent giving up guaranteed benefits 
by transferring their pensions (which was business GMTC didnt want to be involved in).  
Wellington Court has never articulated in detail what its argument is in respect to its 
consultancy work. But it can only be that all the payments it received from GMTC were for its 
consultancy work or that its consultancy work meant the 1% payments from GMTC could 
easily have been overlooked which would give credence to its argument that the transfers 
were happening without its knowledge. 
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because the documentary 
evidence outlined previously persuasively shows the payments werent for consultancy work 
but were instead related to 1% advice fees that were taken from transfer values and then 
paid by GMTC to Wellington Court.
With regards to the second argument, Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any details of 
the fees it earned for its consultancy work. And the bank statements it provided have been 
too heavily redacted to see the full pattern of payments Wellington Court received from 
GMTC. In my provisional decision, I did invite Wellington Court to provide unredacted bank statements for the period under review but it hasnt done so. So whilst its possible that the 
fees for its consultancy work were of a similar magnitude to the 1% advice fees outlined 
above, were paid around the same time and had similar payment references  which, taken 
together, could mean Wellington Court reasonably overlooked them  theres no evidence to 
support this. 
Also, as I said in my provisional decision, other financial advice firms did similar consultancy 
work in relation to transfers to GMTC. These firms charged a fixed fee of around £30 per 
case. So for Wellington Court to have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some 
payments from GMTC, it would have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to 
make the numbers add up. Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But 
even with this assumption, the numbers dont look realistic. The charge per case would have 
to be implausibly high to generate an income high enough that Wellington Court could, 
reasonably, have overlooked the £87,000 advice fees it received from GMTC. By way of 
example, a charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to just check whether a pension had 
safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order to produce an income in the 
region of £87,000. 
In short, whilst Wellington Court may have earned additional sums for its consultancy work, 
its not plausible that the fees it earned for such work could, realistically, have caused it to 
overlook the 1% advisory fees it was also receiving from GMTC. 
Wellington Court says responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically 
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a 
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court 
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from 
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration 
should speak for itself.
In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received 
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington 
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried 
these payments at the time given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view, 
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  GMTC  so I dont see any 
practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the issue with GMTC or the police. 
The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the payments werent fraudulent but were, 
instead, in line with what Wellington Court was expecting to be paid for its involvement in the 
transfers. 
Wellington Court also points out that theres no evidence of there being any direct contact 
between it and the complainants (Mr D included). To support its case, it points to the 
recollections of the complainants, many of whom say they cannot remember dealing with 
Wellington Court. It also refers to one of its clients who says Wellington Court had no 
involvement in his pension with GMTC. 
I covered this in my provisional decision, where I acknowledged that there wasnt any 
paperwork sent to Wellington Court in relation to Mr Ds transfer, or any other transfer as far 
I was aware. And I made the point that based on their recollections complainants likely dealt 
primarily with unregulated introducers. So I can understand why they cant recall much, if 
anything, about Wellington Court. 
However, this doesnt preclude the possibility of Wellington Courts involvement in the 
transfers. GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting any transfers as evidenced by its Important Risk Notices document. The 
paperwork described above was evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted a transfer as coming through an IFA  Wellington Court. As a result, the transfers went ahead and the 1% 
initial advice fee was taken from each transfer value  Mr Ds included  and paid to (and 
accepted by) Wellington Court. So whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with 
Mr D, it was still nonetheless engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer and 
investment  and the transfer of many other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual 
paperwork one would expect from an advice process, and the absence of substantive 
testimony about meetings with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means 
Wellington Court didnt properly advise Mr D, and others, despite being paid to do so.
I agree with Wellington Court when it says some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. 
For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC enclosing Mr Ds transfer papers was 
undated and signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. 
The signature on that letter is indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application 
Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again 
indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the 
signature, Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an 
incorrect FCA reference number was also provided. 
So, as I said in my provisional decision, there are question marks here. However, as I also 
went on to say in my provisional decision, my role is to make findings of fact based on the 
available evidence in order to establish whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, what the fair and 
reasonable outcome of the complaint should be. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. 
Taking all the above into consideration, I see no reason to change my findings of fact, which 
were  and remain  as follows:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of 
pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This includes the transfer of Mr Ds pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent 
activity.
Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court says GMTC failed to undertake due diligence of the SIPPs intended 
investments and questions whether the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA have 
investigated GMTC. 
On the first point, Mr D didnt invest in Dolphin Capital in the way many others did. He 
remained in cash and transferred out of the Orbis SIPP in 2017. So the due diligence issue 
is of limited relevance here. And on the second point, my remit here is to consider Mr Ds 
complaint against Wellington Court. I wont, therefore, be conducting a broader investigation 
into GMTC. Similarly, it is for Wellington Court, rather than the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, to report individuals and organisations to the police if it thinks doing so is warranted.
Wellington Court has said it is willing to help us get to the bottom of the claims for a fee. 
But, as Im sure Wellington Court will appreciate, we are an impartial dispute resolution 
service. Delegating an investigation to the respondent of the complaint would go against that 
impartiality. Besides, Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to provide all the 
evidence and arguments it thinks are relevant.  
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us in order to resolve this matter. Under the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, either party can request a hearing. It is for the 
ombudsman to consider whether the issues raised in such a request are material enough to 
warrant a hearing. Having reviewed the evidence and arguments in their entirety once again, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think a hearing is required. Ive outlined the evidence Ive relied 
upon in coming to my decision. And Im satisfied theres nothing in that evidence that would 
necessitate me speaking to either party in order to better understand that evidence. Much of 
the evidence is paper based and, to my mind, incontrovertible (pension and bank statements 
showing money flowing from GMTC to Wellington Court for instance). The paperwork that is 
more debateable  the transfer paperwork  has been debated extensively and I see no 
persuasive reason why a hearing would add significant insight to that debate. I also note that 
Wellington Court hasnt actually provided any specific reasons for why a fair decision can 
only be reached following a hearing. In the circumstances, and after considering the relevant 
DISP rules, Im satisfied I can fairly determine this complaint without a hearing.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It doesnt say exactly what 
hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied Wellington Court has 
seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants, Mr Ds included. Indeed, its case 
relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork. Im also satisfied 
Wellington Court has seen a copy of Mr Ds SIPP statement showing the 1% Wellington IFA 
fee being taken from his transfer value. Our investigator also sent Wellington Court a copy 
of GMTCs payment summary showing Mr Ds advice fee being paid to Wellington Courts 
bank account. This evidence is central to the outcome of the complaint and our investigator 
made particular reference to it in his assessment. And in my provisional decision, I covered 
the same ground and set out in some detail the payments GMTC made to Wellington Court 
during 2015 in relation to a large number of other transfers with very similar circumstances to 
Mr Ds transfer. Wellington Court hasnt questioned any of these payments or even directly 
referred to them in its response despite their importance to the complaint. 
I also pointed out that because Wellington Court didnt provide complete bank statements for 
the period under review, I only had evidence of it receiving some of the payments in 
question. I said I thought it was reasonable to assume all the payments would have been 
received by Wellington Court. I invited Wellington Court to provide a more comprehensive 
set of bank statements if it disagreed with this assumption. It didnt do so. 
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and had the 
opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my decision.
Jurisdiction
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Mr Ds complaint was in the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I said:
Jurisdiction  in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to
that SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an
advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr D. There is a lack of documentation
to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr D. Potentially
it didnt do anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate
on). It doesnt make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were
omissions in the provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less
regulated as a result.In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)
says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is,
arrangements that bring it about).
I consider it unlikely that Mr D would have transferred if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts
involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an advisory firm before it would accept a
transfer. And Mr D signed up for advice and paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely
that he would have wanted to transfer if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so.
Im satisfied, therefore, that Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about
Mr Ds transfer. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements
under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising
on and arranging pensions and investments.
Jurisdiction  was Mr D an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly
speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the
complaint (DISP 2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being
complained about (DISP 2.7.6).
Im satisfied that Mr D meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer
(which is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that
individuals trade, business, craft or profession).
With regards the second requirement, Mr Ds complaint must also arise from matters
relevant to a relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the
respondent in the rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of
these is the relevant one for the purposes of Mr Ds complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money
holder of the respondent
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr D was its
customer. I disagree.
Mr D signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP and
recorded as a Wellington IFA fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to show Mr D
queried the fee when it was taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that point, concerned
about paying advice fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear to be any
documents showing what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice fee. But
Mr D doesnt strike me as being a particularly experienced investor so he wouldntnecessarily have known what to expect. So I think he would therefore have reasonably
considered himself a customer of Wellington Court. And from Wellington Courts perspective,
its difficult to argue Mr D wasnt its customer given it knowingly accepted the 1% payment in
relation to Mr D and the transfer wouldnt have happened if it hadnt been for its involvement.
In short, Mr D signed up for advice. He paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and
accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical
to Mr D transferring. So all things considered, Im satisfied there was a customer relationship
here.
I should point out at this point that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had 
a relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it 
checking some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that 
there is a business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer 
firm) rather than a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm. 
This has implications for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 2.7.6
because the complainant doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent.
This argument doesnt appear to apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have
undertaken some consultancy work for GMTC. But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided
enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was.
And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship between the complainant, Mr D,
and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy arrangement that may have
been in place.
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against
a regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be
brought within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on
from an establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr D
brought his complaint to us within the relevant time limits.
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a case I can consider.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to jurisdiction except for 
its broader arguments about Mr D never being a client of Wellington Court. Ive dealt with 
those broader arguments and how they related to jurisdiction in my provisional decision. Ive 
addressed those arguments once again in my comments above and my conclusions havent 
changed. So, in the absence of any specific arguments about jurisdiction, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings in this area. 
The merits of Mr Ds complaint
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. I said: 
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an
advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show
what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due
to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given
the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing,
providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of
transfers.The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ds
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr D. I say this because Mr D transferred from a stakeholder
pension which was invested in equities (60% UK equities and 40% overseas equities) and
transferred to a SIPP that ended up invested in cash. Mr D has said that he wanted to take
tax free cash from his pension  which he did  and leave the rest invested. I consider
allocating this residual amount to equities would have been the suitable recommendation
here. I say this because Mr D was only 56 at the time and doesnt appear to have been
planning on drawing on his pension beyond his tax-free cash. So he appears to have had
time to ride out any short term falls in equity markets meaning he could have benefited  if
he had been advised properly  from the growth equities typically bring over the longer term.
Therefore, whilst Mr D may have required a change of plan with his existing provider (or a
new provider) in order to take tax free cash and remain invested, theres nothing to evidence
this or to show why the Orbis SIPP was necessarily the right product for him. And, more
importantly, I dont think it was appropriate for Mr D to have moved to the Orbis SIPP only to
end up invested in 100% cash. In the circumstances, therefore, I think the most suitable
advice would have been for Mr D to have not transferred. My approach to compensation, set
out below, reflects this.
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint. If I do uphold Mr Ds
complaint, Wellington Court will have to put things right for him by following the approach
outlined below.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to what Ive said except 
for its broader arguments about Mr D never being a client of Wellington Court. I addressed 
these issues in my provisional decision. I revisited the same issues earlier in this final 
decision and my conclusions havent changed. I also havent been provided with any 
arguments or evidence from either party that makes me think my assumptions regarding 
Mr Ds needs and circumstances at the time of the transfer were incorrect  It follows from this 
that I remain satisfied with the approach I took with regards to the merits of Mr Ds complaint 
and the best approach to take to compensate him.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts actions. Its not possible to say precisely
what Mr D would otherwise have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr D fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume 
that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal 20%. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Wellington 
Court should give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis
SIPPtransferredthe fund(s) 
Mr Ds 
stakeholder 
pension was 
previously 
invested indate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. This means Wellington Court will need to contact Mr Ds original 
pension provider to obtain this value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
If the SIPP transfer hadnt gone ahead Mr D would most likely have remained 
invested in his existing plan and the same funds.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
To compensate Mr D, Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should take the steps 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman