DRN-4344312
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society closed an account he held with them 
without notification. Mr L said the account had accumulated interest of around £600.
What happened
Mr L opened a Nationwide Instant Access Individual Savings Account (ISA) in 1999. He went 
to a Nationwide branch in December 2019 to close the account, but was told the account 
was closed when an ISA transfer out of the balance of £659.48 took place on 17 April 2012. 
Nationwide said this would have been initiated by another ISA provider but due to the lapse 
of time it couldnt see who this was. Mr L said the statement Nationwide sent showed the 
money transferred out rather than closure and transfer as Nationwide had said. Nationwide 
provided a reference number for a cheque payment for £659.48 which it said was cashed.
But Mr L said he never requested a transfer and thinks the account was closed without his 
permission. He said the account statement confirms this and he left a balance in the account 
of £1 as shown in his passbook, and so he was surprised to learn that previously added 
interest meant there had been a balance over £600. Mr L questioned why the account was 
closed and requested the funds be returned to him. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the evidence shows the 
full balance of the ISA, £659.48, was transferred on 17 April 2012. He said that there are 
only limited records, but Nationwide has provided Mr L with the available information. 
Mr L says he didnt make this withdrawal and so the account should still have at least the 
£659.48 balance remaining. Mr L said Nationwide had suggested that the funds had been 
transferred out to another ISA, which would mean that a passbook wasnt required, and this 
would explain why there was no entry on Mr Ls passbook. But it was later established that 
the withdrawal was by cheque and the account was closed. However, due to the passage of 
time, the information that Nationwide were able to provide was limited.
Mr L provided his passbook, with the last transaction a withdrawal of over £20,000 in 2008, 
which left £1 in the account. The investigator said there were no further entries at this time, 
and with interest added he thought the balance was withdrawn from the account on 17 April 
2012. He said Nationwide had confirmed that a customer would normally require a passbook 
for a withdrawal over £500, however branch managers can use their discretion about this 
and so its possible for an account to be closed without the passbook being present. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this answer and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman has reviewed the time limits that apply to complaints and has decided 
that Mr L has brought his complaint to our service within the time permitted. 
Mr L remembers taking out most of the money from his account, and leaving the account 
open, he thought with £1 in it. He didnt realise the interest was added after that, because it 
wasn't added to his passbook, and he didn't get a statement until he went into a Nationwide 
branch just before Christmas 2019, and Nationwide told him the account was closed. He 
said he didnt think any changes could be made without a record on his passbook and 
doesn't think the cheque for the account balance was ever sent to him, and he doesn't think 
he requested it either.
Nationwide has explained that, because the transaction took place in 2012, it has only 
limited information available. But Nationwide has provided an archive statement of Mr Ls 
account from 2012 which shows the account was closed on 17 April 2012 with a transfer out 
of £659.48. The statement shows the account was opened on 7 June 1999.
Mr Ls account passbook shows that there was a balance of £1 left in the account from 2008. 
However, Nationwide has explained that the passbook isnt required to close the account 
and that payments dont have to be reflected there. Nationwides account statement shows 
the account was closed when the entire balance was transferred out. 
I can understand Mr Ls scepticism about this as he doesnt think there was any account 
activity after 2008 and he thinks Nationwide has given differing explanations about the 
proceeds of the account. Nationwide has explained that with a transfer out instruction (as 
shown on its archived statement), the funds would have more than likely been paid by 
cheque to another ISA provider, and placed into an alternative account. 
Neither Nationwides nor Mr Ls records confirm this, but there is proof a cheque for the 
account balance was raised. And Nationwide has provided details of another transfer out 
processed on another ISA account for Mr L in November 2012. Nationwide subsequently 
showed evidence that the amount of £659.48 was debited from the account by cheque on 17 
April 2012  and has provided the cheque number. Nationwide has also confirmed that the 
cheque isnt outstanding, which indicates that it has been cashed.
Mr L said the cheque wasnt issued to him. Unfortunately, as the cheque was issued over 10 
years ago it isnt possible to know who it went to. But I havent seen anything to suggest it 
was sent to someone not associated with the account.
Nationwide has said that another 'transfer out' was processed on an account for an ISA held 
by Mr L at the time. He says he remembers that happening, and he had quite a few different 
ISAs/investment accounts, which he moved amounts from to take up new deals. But he said 
the investment had matured before the ISA account that he is complaining about, and he 
hadnt sent the funds to the same provider. 
Mr L said on a call with Nationwide it pressed him to admit that he had made a transfer, 
which he hadnt. He said that this was the transfer that Nationwide mentioned in its response 
to his complaint. Ive listened to a recording of the call, and Nationwide state that limited 
records are available after the time that has passed. Nationwide told Mr L he had a lack of 
evidence in support of his complaint, but I havent heard it pressing him to say he had made 
the transfer from the account. 
When the parties disagree about what has taken place, we have to decide the most likely 
outcome on the balance of probabilities. In this case, having considered the evidence, Im 
persuaded that the account was closed on 17 April 2012 and that a cheque was issued for 
the balance. This is because Nationwide has provided an explanation regarding the 
withdrawal amount, the date, the cheque number and confirmation that the cheque isnt 
outstanding. Theres also a practical explanation provided in relation to the updating of a 
passbook when a customer has requested their account to be closed without the passbook 
being present. I think, on balance, that Nationwide has followed the correct process in closing Mr Ls 
account and dealing with the balance. As I havent found anything to show that Nationwide 
has made a mistake in the handling of Mr Ls ISA, I cannot require it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman