DRN-2820350
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refused to refund a transaction taken 
from her account that she didnt authorise.
What happened
Miss S was expecting to receive the funds as a result of a home business shed started 
during lockdown. Shed received a similar amount a few days earlier and had taken the 
money out at an ATM shortly after it arrived in her account. She was waiting for the latest 
funds to arrive and then noticed her account balance was only a few pence.
Miss S noticed a payment had left her Monzo account which she didnt recognise. She 
reported it to Monzo shortly after seeing it and asked them for a refund. Monzo asked Miss S 
whether shed given access to anyone else or forwarded emails allowing someone else to 
log on to her account. Miss S said that no one else had access and she hadnt forwarded an 
email to anyone to allow them to log in or given her PIN code to anyone else.
Monzo secured the account and investigated the transaction. Monzo declined to refund it 
because they considered Miss S authorised the transaction herself. Monzo noticed a secure 
email had also been forwarded, which they considered as negligent because along with the 
secure PIN code would give someone else access to the account. 
Miss S strongly denied this and identified the recipient of the funds via social media. Miss S 
entered into numerous conversations with this person who denied having anything to do with 
a fraud against Miss S.
Miss S complained to Monzo about their refusal to refund her money, Monzo looked into the 
matter and wouldnt change the outcome. Unhappy with their response, Miss S brought her 
complaint to our service for an independent review.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it, she thought that there wasnt 
any evidence that anyone else was involved in authorising the payment.
Miss S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be looked at again. Its been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint that Miss S brought to us is that someone made a payment from her account 
without her authorisation. The relevant law is contained in the Payment Service regulations 
(2017). The basic position is that Monzo can hold Miss S liable for the disputed payment if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made it or authorised it.
Authorisation is made up of two parts  authentication and consent. Authentication refers to 
the procedure used by the bank to verify that a payment was made and usually refers to the 
technical evidence.
Monzo have supplied evidence showing that on the day of the transaction, two different 
devices were logged on to the account. The data indicates that a new payee was set up and 
the disputed transaction was sent to another bank account. The evidence shows that strong 
customer authentication (the PIN code for the banking app) was used on several occasions 
to confirm access to the account.
I don't know how a third party could have known the relevant information they did here to set 
this payment up and then make it. They would have needed to have known Miss S's PIN 
code and there are no records of this being entered with any mistakes in a way that might 
suggest an unknown third party trying to gain unauthorised access to the account. Instead, 
the PIN looks to have been entered correctly before the payments were made.
Monzo havent been able to supply all the authentication data for this transaction, but Miss S 
has also confirmed that a new payee was successfully set up on her account. From what Ive 
explained above and Miss Ss own information, I think its more likely than not the 
transaction was properly authenticated.
But, I also have to consider the second part  consent. Miss S has denied making this 
payment and Ive carefully considered the circumstances at the time. 
Once Miss S noticed her expected payment hadnt arrived, she contacted Monzo and asked 
them what had happened. Miss S realised shortly after that the money had been sent via a 
faster payment bank transfer to another account which she didnt recognise. Monzo secured 
her account and started to investigate. 
Monzo identified a second device (using another operating system for a mobile phone) had 
started logging into the account some days earlier. Miss S told Monzo that she didnt use this 
type of device.
Miss S supplied screenshots from her email system to Monzo to allow them to investigate 
what had happened. This showed that a special login email received from Monzo had been 
forwarded from Miss Ss account despite warnings from Monzo not to do this. This email, 
along with the unique PIN code for the banking app gives complete control over the account.
Miss S denied sending this to anyone but the evidence from her own email shows that it was 
sent  although it doesnt indicate to who. The email was received shortly before the other 
device logged in to the account for the first time. For this device to have logged in, it would 
also need the unique PIN code used by Miss S, but shes denied giving this to anyone. I 
cant see how someone unknown to Miss S wouldve been able to know this number though. 
And I think its unlikely that an unknown third party would be able to guess the PIN code and 
obtain the login email without Miss Ss knowledge.
The other device continued to login to the account over the next few days. On the day of the 
disputed transaction the funds arrived into the account at 18:01 and both devices were 
logging into the account within minutes of each other, including Miss Ss device at 18:03 
where the incoming payment would likely have been visible. The other device then takes 
over at 18:04 and the payment leaves the account at 18:06. Whilst I appreciate Miss S 
denies making the payment, the available evidence leads me to conclude that Miss S more 
than likely consented to the payment. I say that because:
the login email was forwarded just before a new device logged in for the first time - 
despite Miss S telling Monzo she hadnt done this.
Miss Ss email account was checked for other devices that may have interfered with 
her emails and no unidentified devices were found.The user of the other device would also have needed Miss Ss unique PIN and Miss 
S was the only one who knew this. I cant see how it could have been obtained 
without Miss Ss knowledge or without Miss S passing this on.
The timings of the activity suggest the other device user was aware that funds were 
due in as they were moved within five minutes of their arrival into the account. 
So, having considered all the evidence here  I think its unlikely that an unknown third party 
could have gained access to the account without Miss Ss email and PIN, both of which she 
controlled. On balance, the evidence leads me to conclude that Miss S more than likely 
carried it out herself, or gave access to her account for someone else to complete the 
payment. I realise that Miss S will disagree with this, but its what all the evidence Ive seen 
here leads me to conclude.
The relevant regulations here go on to say that Miss S can be held liable for a payment she 
didnt make or authorise, if she acted with gross negligence in allowing it to be made. 
Monzo has explained that it thinks she was. But as Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that she authorised the payment here  gross negligence isnt a relevant consideration in the 
circumstances. 
So, it follows that its reasonable for Monzo to hold Miss S responsible for the payment here. 
If Miss S wishes to pursue the recipient of the funds through the authorities or the courts 
then shes free to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman