DRN-4014085
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was told the vehicle he acquired via a hire purchase agreement from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as BMW Financial Services wouldnt 
depreciate. However, the vehicle has reduced in value by over £15,000 in 10 months. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr C discussed purchasing a new vehicle with a manufacturer dealership I shall 
call G. One of Gs sales executives told Mr C that he was in negative equity on his current 
vehicle. The sales executive said that when buying a car to make sure you go for a certain 
type of model, as these will hold their value a lot more than standard editions. 
In February 2022, Mr C acquired the certain type of vehicle detailed in Gs email from a 
different manufacturer dealership that I shall call J. The total price was £62,518 and Mr C 
paid a £1,000 deposit. The remaining balance was financed via a hire purchase agreement 
from BMW Financial Services. Under this agreement Mr C was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of £1,119.75, followed by an optional final payment of £24,070.40 should he 
want to purchase the vehicle at the end of the agreement. 
In December 2022, Mr C complained to BMW Financial Services. He explained that the 
vehicle he acquired had reduced in value by over £15,000 but he had been told that type of 
vehicle wouldnt depreciate. 
BMW Financial Services responded in January 2023 and said vehicle prices cant be 
dictated at any point, due to the market constantly changing. It also noted the email from Gs 
sales executive mentioned a different type of model from the one Mr C acquired. BMW 
Financial Services explained these vehicles are different. Lastly, BMW Financial Services 
also said the email conversation with G was from July 2021 and the sale of the vehicle Mr C 
acquired was in 2022.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and concluded BMW Financial Services hadnt acted 
unfairly. She said G didnt broker the sale of the vehicle Mr C acquired and its email didnt 
mention the value wouldnt depreciate at all. The investigator also said she couldnt say Mr C 
had acquired the same type of vehicle model mentioned by G and the sales invoice reflected 
that. 
Mr C replied and said both G and J operate under the same manufacturer name, and so the 
manufacturer have provided incorrect information to him. Mr C also said the point about the 
type of model not matching wasnt accurate. 
As Mr C still disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In this case Mr Cs complaint has been brought against the finance provider  BMW 
Financial Services. J was the supplying dealer and as detailed on the credit agreement, it 
brokered the finance. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) is relevant here because it says that any 
negotiations between Mr C and the supplying dealership are deemed to have been 
conducted by the supplying dealer as an agent of BMW Financial Services. Therefore, a 
finance provider is liable for what was said by the supplying dealership.
 
I appreciate Mr Cs point that both G and J operate under the manufacturer name. However, 
each dealership is still its own individual business. It was Gs information that Mr C says he 
relied upon, but G wasnt acting as an agent of BMW Financial Services in relation to the 
vehicle Mr C acquired. The supplying dealer in that case was J and it was J that brokered 
the credit from BMW Financial Services to finance the vehicle. 
Given this, anything G advised isnt something that BMW Financial Services can be held 
liable for in relation to the vehicle Mr C acquired in February 2022. 
Even if I could hold BMW Financial Services responsible for what G said. The sales 
executive doesnt state that the value of a certain vehicle type wont go down. They appear 
instead to be providing an opinion that a certain model will hold value more than a standard 
edition. 
Overall, I dont believe that G confirmed to Mr C that a certain model type wouldnt go down 
in value as he has suggested. But in any event, what G advised isnt something that I can 
hold BMW Financial Services liable for in this case
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman