DRN-4003930
The complaint
Ms F complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly defaulted her credit card account and a 
number of other issues related to it.
 
What happened
In October 2018, Ms F opened a credit card account. She transferred a balance of around 
£6,600 into the account.
For several months in 2019, Ms F failed to make the minimum payment. In August 2019, 
HSBC advised of their intentions to default the account. According to Ms F, HSBC agreed to 
a repayment plan of £50 per month. HSBC said there is no evidence of such an agreement.
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Ms F said she was suffering with financial 
difficulties. HSBC agreed to a three month payment deferral between June to August 2020. 
Once this ended, they said Ms F never applied for another one, nor did she contact them 
about the account. However Ms F states, she was told she could resume the £50 repayment 
plan. 
As the account was several months in arrears, in August 2021 HSBC issued a default notice 
and demanded full payment of the outstanding balance. As it wasnt satisfied, they defaulted 
the account in September 2021. It was transferred to their in-house debt company, who I will 
refer to as T. 
Ms F complained about a number of issues, including but not limited to:
- The account had been unfairly defaulted despite being on a repayment plan;
- She wasnt told the debt had been passed to T;
- Despite paying towards the debt, the balance wasnt reducing;
- She had been charged interest despite it being an interest free account;
- She hadnt received a response to a subject access request (SAR).
HSBC said they had acted fairly in defaulting the account. However due to the delays in 
responding to the SAR and other service related issues, they agreed to pay £75 
compensation. 
Dissatisfied with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
concluded HSBC had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement. Ms F 
disagreed and maintained her position. 
Since then, HSBC has confirmed in response to the final demand letter in May 2019, Ms F 
paid around £500 yet the account didnt default until two years later in September 2021. 
Theyve agreed to backdate the default to May 2019.
In February 2023, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intention to uphold the 
complaint in part. I said:
The repayment plan 
As a starting point, the terms of the account say HSBC may take action if the minimum 
payments arent paid on time. Based on the statements Ive seen, for a number of months 
throughout 2019, Ms F failed to make the minimum payments. So I can understand why 
HSBC started default proceedings in April 2019. As they received no response, in May 2019 
they demanded full payment of the outstanding balance which was around £6,700.
Ms F asserts around this time, HSBC agreed to a £50 repayment plan. HSBC dispute this. 
Based on Ms Fs version of events, its unclear when and how this was allegedly agreed, 
whether in branch or by phone. I note she started making monthly payments of £50 in 
August 2019 which was around three months after the deadline set in the final demand 
letter. If this was an agreed repayment plan to avoid the default, I wouldve expected this to 
have started sooner. Having considered HSBCs contact notes and system records, I find 
there is insufficient evidence HSBC agreed to this repayment plan. Theyve told our service, 
if one had been agreed, there would be a record of it and written confirmation sent to Ms F 
outlining the same and how long it would last for. I find £50 repayments is considerably less 
than the monthly minimum payments Ms F was required to pay which was around several 
hundred pounds. If HSBC agreed to such a reduced payment, I would expect that to be 
recorded somewhere but neither party have produced evidence of the same. Based on the 
evidence presented to me, Im not persuaded HSBC agreed to a £50 repayment plan as Ms 
F alleges. 
The default
The Information Commissioners Offices guidance explains that a financial business such as 
HSBC should register a default with credit reference agencies when an account is between 
three and six months in arrears.
Here, based on statements Ive seen, Ms F failed to make the minimum payments for 
several months in 2019. As the account fell into arrears, HSBC sent a default notice in April 
2019. Based on the above guidance, I find HSBC acted fairly by initiating such action. As the 
required payment wasnt made nor any contact from Mrs F to discuss it, HSBC sent a final 
demand letter stating she must pay the full balance.
Having read these letters, Im satisfied HSBC made the status of the account clear and what 
would happen should Ms F not take action as required. I understand Ms F maintains she 
never received such correspondence but as they were correctly addressed, on balance, I 
believe they were sent by HSBC. Overall, I find HSBC acted reasonably because it was 
clear Ms F couldnt afford the minimum payments. 
As the default and final demand notices werent satisfied, I wouldve expected the account to 
default shortly thereafter but that didnt happen. Instead it remained open for quite some time 
even though Ms F didnt make the minimum payments. She made monthly payments of £50 
per month between August 2019 to June 2020 and October 2020 and October 2021. Im 
aware HSBC agreed to a Covid-19 payment deferral for three months which was meant for 
short term temporary support for those negatively impacted by the pandemic. However in 
this case, it was evident Ms F was experiencing long term financial difficulty. Im not 
persuaded there was anything to suggest that she could get the account back on track within 
a reasonable period of time. 
HSBC eventually defaulted the account in September 2021 which was over two years after 
the initial default notice in May 2019. As mentioned above, I wouldve expected this to have 
happened sooner. Having brought this to HSBCs attention, theyve agreed to retrospectively backdate the default to May 2019. I find this is a reasonable approach as its a fair and 
accurate reflection of the point in which the account shouldve defaulted. 
Interest and charges
Ms F states she was told the account would be interest free for two years. Due to the 
passage of time, HSBC hasnt provided a copy of the actual credit agreement but I dont feel 
this is material to the outcome. I say this because HSBC has provided copies of the 
statements since the account was opened. 
I can see no interest was charged between October 2018 and December 2020. Which is 
around two years of no interest. Based on the statements, from January 2021 HSBC were 
entitled to start charging interest. Despite this, the statements show none was applied. Im 
satisfied no interest was charged on the account before it was defaulted.
The balance
Ms F says despite paying at least £50 a month, the account balance hasnt reduced however 
I disagree. The statements show no interest was charged meaning any payments she paid 
were put towards the outstanding balance. I note the opening balance was around £6,800 
and by the time it was defaulted in September 2021, it was around £4,600. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied payments made by Ms F were applied to the outstanding balance.
In October 2021, HSBC passed the account to their in-house agents, T, to collect the debt 
however theyve confirmed they remain the legal owners of the debt. Their system records 
indicated a letter was sent to Ms F to confirm the same.
Ms Fs comments that since the account passed to T, the payments shes made arent 
reducing the balance. However according to HSBC, no payments have been received by T 
and theyve provided evidence to support the same. If Ms F wishes to provide evidence of 
payments shes made to T since the account was defaulted and the balance hasnt reduced, 
I will consider the same. 
The subject access request
Ms F made a subject access request in October 2021. HSBC accept this request wasnt 
responded to in a timely manner.  For that and other service related issues, theyve agreed 
to pay £75 compensation. From my understanding, the SAR was sent to Ms F by email in 
December 2021. However since the complaint has been at our service, it has come to light, 
Ms F no longer uses that email address. However Im pleased to see HSBC has since sent 
the SAR to her postal address. As Ms F is now in receipt of the same, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything further in relation to this complaint point.
Other
From my understanding, following some remedial exercises by HSBC, they refunded £40 in 
charges in February 2021. Ms F says this demonstrates interest was charged however I 
disagree. As already explained above, there is no evidence interest was charged but I can 
see there were a number of charges for late payment fees and returned direct debits. On 
balance, I find its mostly likely the £40 refund was for such account fees opposed to interest. 
I also understand in November 2020, HSBC paid £25 compensation as a gesture of goodwill 
as they potentially couldve provided additional help and support from their collections team. 
I strongly urge Ms F to contact T to discuss an affordable repayment plan in order to pay the 
outstanding balance.Response to the provisional decision 
HSBC accepted the findings. Ms F disagreed and maintained her position including her 
belief that the balance isnt reducing despite her making payments to T. She also 
commented HSBC incorrectly calculated the minimum payments on the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms F for her detailed response which Ive carefully considered. 
In terms of the issue about recent payments not being applied to the outstanding balance, I 
invited evidence to be provided so I can consider it however, she hasnt provided the same. 
In the absence of such evidence, I still find it reasonable to rely on HSBCs system records 
which show no payments have been made since the debt was passed to T.
Ms F has provided a lot of detail as to why she believes the minimum payments were 
calculated incorrectly by HSBC. However, I find this to be new complaint point therefore not 
one that was previously raised. As there is no indication HSBC has had the opportunity to 
investigate that particular concern, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on it. Ms F 
would have to raise this as a separate complaint with HSBC in the first instance.
I consider the rest of Ms Fs submissions to be the same or of a similar nature to what shes 
already told our service. Im satisfied Ive addressed these points in my provisional decision 
so I wont be repeating them again here. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Fs complaint. 
To say to put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
- Backdate the default to May 2019 and amend Ms Fs credit file accordingly;
- Pay £75 compensation to Ms F for the service related issues (if not paid already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman