DRN-1913486
The complaint
Ms P has complained that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELIC)
failed to make her horse policys cover clear enough resulting in an unreasonable refusal to 
pay her claim.
Ms P is represented by her sister Ms C. However for ease of clarity purposes, I shall just 
refer to Ms P.
What happened
Ms P took out this policy in June 2016 when she bought her horse and renewed it each year. 
The policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. Also it only provides cover for any condition 
for 365 days. Once those 365 days have passed, that condition is then excluded. 
Ms P made a claim for the cost of vet treatment for sarcoids from which her horse suffered 
on 20 March 2019. ELIC considered her claim and said because her horse first had 
treatment for sarcoids in December 2016, any claim in relation to sarcoids had been 
excluded from 14 July 2017 as detailed on her policy schedule as no cover was available for 
conditions after 365 days.
Ms P then complained she wasnt aware sarcoids would have been excluded in this way and 
the exclusion wasnt brought to her attention when the policy renewed. ELIC again confirmed 
it had given her notice of this in July 2018 with its renewal notice which clearly detailed that 
from 14 July 2017 cover excluded skin tumours and related conditions. 
Ms P didnt think this was clear enough and so she brought her complaint to us. The 
investigator was the view that ELIC hadnt done anything wrong. Ms P disagreed so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
This policy was sold on an unadvised basis, which was explained in the letter from ELIC to 
Ms P of 19 June 2016 when she first took out this policy. This means there is no duty on 
ELIC to provide any advice on whether this policy was suitable for Ms Ps needs. So that 
means its up to the consumer to read the terms and conditions of the policy and make their 
own decision as to whether the cover being sold is suitable for their needs. And obviously 
ELIC would then answer any questions any consumer might raise before the contract is 
made.
So there is always the assumption that the consumer such as Ms P here, has read the policy 
in detail and indeed the renewal terms offered at each renewal.
ELICs sole duty is to detail the cover available and to detail the terms of its cover at each 
renewal. I consider ELIC did do this adequately. This is because the renewal details 
provided to Ms P by ELIC on 7 July 2018 explained that in the section headed Additional 
Notes/Disclosures/Warranties/Exclusions in the Schedule that, With effect from 14/07/2017 
cover excludes skin tumours and related conditions. 
Like the investigator, I agree the issue was somewhat complicated by the fact that at the 
same time ELIC was advising about changes to the policy wording saying they were 
highlighted in blue, whereas changes to the policy schedule werent. However the exclusions 
werent written in small print as Ms P complained, as the text size, as identified by the 
investigator, was the same as the rest of the details not written as a heading.
 
On balance consequently, I dont consider the information given by ELIC was insufficiently  
comprehensible or not appropriately highlighted. I think its clear the renewal invitation 
detailed the exclusion for skin tumours effectively, once the schedule was read fully.
 
Ms P raised the issue that she received notification for the exclusion for wolf teeth in a 
separate letter from ELIC once the claim for wolf teeth had been considered, but she never 
received such a specific and standalone communication as regards skin tumours. 
When Ms P made her claim in May 2018 for the dental work concerning the wolf teeth, 
ELIC asked for her horses vet history in the usual way to consider her claim. In the vet 
history it was noted that her horse was treated for sarcoids in December 2016. Therefore as 
the cover limit for any condition of 365 days had then passed for this sarcoids condition, 
under the policy terms no further cover was consequently available for sarcoids after 
December 2017. Therefore in line with the policy terms, the exclusion was placed from the 
next renewal as detailed in the correspondence of July 2018. Ive already decided the 
renewal invite was sufficiently clear in explaining the exclusion had been added. Therefore it 
cant be said ELIC has done anything wrong given it followed its own policy terms and 
sufficiently informed Ms P at the next renewal invitation. 
Whilst it might have been helpful to have detailed the exclusion for skin tumours in the 
same letter as the exclusion for wolf teeth I dont think it would have made any difference. 
Ms P had already treated for her horse for sarcoids and therefore would obviously do so 
again. She said if she had known about this exclusion, she would have cancelled her policy. 
But like the investigator Im not persuaded by this (although Ms P has since cancelled this 
policy on 6 September 2019) because with any new policy its far more likely any pre-
existing conditions wouldnt be covered by any new insurer either and her policy still 
provided cover for other conditions not yet treated. And furthermore she didnt cancel her 
policy after she was aware any further issues concerning wolf teeth were excluded.
It was Ms Ps decision to buy this policy with its limitations of cover, from what might have 
been available in the rest of the equine insurance market. I consider ELIC outlined its terms  
and limitations coherently and I consider that it sufficiently informed Ms P of this exclusion in 
its renewal invitation of July 2018. Therefore I dont think ELIC did anything wrong.
My final decisionSo for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman