DRN-1584540
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from Hey Habito Ltd - a mortgage broker - 
when he was looking for a mortgage to buy his first home.
What happened
Mr G first approached Hey Habito on 10 February 2019. At that time he looking to find out 
how much he could borrow in principle, without a search being recorded on his credit record. 
Mr G said he hadnt yet found a property and was looking to buy a new-build property with a 
purchase price of around £178,500 via a Help to Buy scheme.
The adviser said, based on the information provided by Mr G, that he should in principle be 
able to get a mortgage of around £133,000, but until a property was found nothing further 
could be done. He confirmed the maximum loan to value was 75%, so that would mean 
Mr G putting down a 5% deposit and funding the remaining 20% with a Help to Buy loan.
On 20 February 2019 Mr G said he was considering a property with a purchase price of 
£189,950. The adviser confirmed a mortgage of around £142,400 should be OK based on 
the information provided.
On 5 March 2019 Mr G said he was looking at a property for sale at £189,900 but it wasnt a 
new-build so wasnt available under the same Help to Buy scheme hed been looking at.
On 19 March 2019 it came to light that Mr Gs declared income was made up of various 
components, rather than just being a basic annual salary. The adviser explained that lenders 
would all look at that differently, but most would only use 50% of the extra income over and 
above his basic annual salary. As the extras were about half Mr Gs declared income that 
made a big difference. At that time the adviser suggested a large high street lender Ill refer 
to as N as being a good choice, as it would take 100% of the extra income so affordability 
shouldnt be an issue.
Over the next few weeks there were issues with the property Mr G wanted to buy as the 
developer wanted Mr G to use their recommended mortgage broker and wouldnt allow him 
to reserve the property without undergoing a credit check with that broker.
On 4 April Hey Habito offered to move away from its normal process to try to help Mr G and 
it said it would put in a full decision in principle to lender N as that would involve a hard credit 
search plus all Mr Gs income and outgoing evidence would be looked at.
On 5 April Mr G replied I don't think a high street bank will accept me with my poor credit 
score. He provided the details about his credit history and finished by saying I understand I 
might only be able to get a mortgage with a [sic] adverse mortgage lender and understand 
rates will be considerably higher.
The adviser replied that he hadnt been made aware of Mr Gs poor credit history and said 
that would almost certainly cause N to decline any application. He said there were a limited 
number of lenders that dealt with people with poor credit histories and offered Help to Buy 
mortgages. And thats before they came to the issue of how Mr Gs income was made up. 
He warned Mr G that hed need some time to explore the options but that it might not be 
possible to get as large a mortgage as Mr G wanted.
On 8 April Mr G said hed been looking at a mortgage lender that Ill call P, saying it looked 
like hed fit its criteria and it accepted 100% of shift allowances which he classed most of his 
extra income as. He said only a small part of his income would class as commission which P 
would only take 50% of into account. Mr G said hed run it through Ps affordability 
calculator, and it came back that it would lend him enough.
The adviser replied that P was a lender he was looking at and would get back to him as soon 
as he had any news.
On 10 April the adviser confirmed that P had accepted the application in principle, and 
nothing further could be done until Mr G had an offer accepted on a property.
On 12 April Mr G said the next phase of properties on the development he was interested in 
wouldnt be released until 4 May, which was later than hed been told. He said he was 
worried because hed be off work for three weeks in April, so his pay for that month would be 
a lot lower (as he wouldnt receive the various extra allowances).
The adviser said Mr G should have his P60 shortly, so they could provide that with a longer 
track record of payslips to evidence the reduced wage in April as not being representative of 
Mr Gs true income.
Nothing further happened until 7 May when Mr G said hed reserved a property on a different 
development. The adviser said hed need full details of the property, and confirmation of 
whether anything had changed. He also said Mr G would need to provide solicitors details.
Mr G said he needed to finalise the purchase price as it was dependent on whether he 
wanted carpets included, so the adviser said hed wait to hear from Mr G.
On 10 May Mr G confirmed the purchase price and said that included buying the freehold (as 
it was a leasehold property). He also said hed be receiving a cash incentive of £3,500 from 
the developer.
On 14 May the adviser asked Mr G to upload his up to date income and outgoing evidence 
(such as his April payslip, and various bank statements). At that time Mr G said he didnt yet 
have the 5% deposit saved, but he planned to have it by completion. The adviser said that 
was unlikely to be acceptable to lender P as it would want to see he had the deposit already 
available, and then confirmed the lender had said no. Mr G said his parents would instead 
gift him the deposit then.
There were problems with Mr G being unable to upload his bank statements, which the 
adviser sorted out. Then Mr G said a five-year fixed rate was a long time, and he thought it 
would only be a two-year fixed rate. The adviser explained Mr G had said when he made his 
initial enquiry that he wanted a five-year fixed rate mortgage. He provided an illustration for 
the two-year fixed rate that P provided. Mr G said he wanted to go ahead with the two-year 
fixed rate.
On 16 May the adviser said he was discussing the application with P due to the fact Mr Gs 
income was so much lower in April.
Mr G contacted the adviser on 17 May with a list of other possible mortgage lenders he 
thought might accept his application. The adviser said he was still discussing it with P and asked if Mr G could provide his P60. He also said one of the lenders wouldnt be suitable as 
it didnt do Help to Buy mortgages.
Mr G then suggested another mortgage lender which the adviser confirmed did look like a 
good option. But the adviser said he couldnt deal with that as the lender wasnt on their 
panel so he couldnt submit an application to that lender. 
On 22 May the adviser said he was struggling with P and so it looked unlikely it would agree 
to the mortgage, and he recommended Mr G try to arrange a mortgage with the other lender 
that hed mentioned (which Hey Habito couldnt get involved with).
Mr G says he went to a different broker and they managed to arrange a mortgage for him 
with the original high street lender N that was mentioned. But the developer wasnt willing to 
give him any more time so he lost the property he wanted to purchase.
Mr G complained to Hey Habito about the service hed received. Hey Habito said the adviser 
should have checked sooner whether P would consider the application after Mr G received 
his April payslip, and for that it offered £50 compensation.
Our investigator said that offer was fair and felt Hey Habito had done what it could to source 
a mortgage for Mr G. Mr G didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware my summary of the background above doesnt include every contact between the 
parties. Ive taken note of everything both sides have said, but I wont be responding to every 
point, or in as much detail. No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service and my role in it.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. Buying a house is a stressful time and its understandable to want it to go as 
smoothly as possible. Hey Habito has accepted it could have checked Mr Gs reduced April 
income with P sooner and it has offered £50 for that.
Having looked at everything and kept in mind the regulatory requirements and normal 
industry practice, Im not persuaded (as I must be if Im to uphold this complaint) that this 
application was unreasonably and significantly delayed to the point that Hey Habito was the 
cause of Mr G not being able to buy the property he wanted.
Mr G wasnt ready to proceed until hed had an offer accepted on a property and confirmed 
the purchase price. That was on 10 May (whilst the adviser was on annual leave, returning 
on 14 May), and on 22 May (so just eight days after the adviser received the information on 
his return from annual leave) Hey Habito recommended that Mr G try the lender it couldnt 
apply to as P was looking an unlikely option.
I must also keep in mind that throughout the lengthy correspondence Mr G never mentioned 
a tight completion deadline, and important information came in somewhat sporadically (such 
as the nature of his income make-up, his poor credit history, his lack of deposit etc). 
Hey Habito didnt charge Mr G a broker fee, so it wasnt in its interests to spend as long as it 
did on Mr Gs application for it not to go anywhere, as it would only get paid if a mortgage 
completed. Having considered the correspondence history, Im satisfied the adviser was proactively progressing Mr Gs enquiry for months before he was ready to proceed, and then 
at application stage once hed found a property. The adviser reacted swiftly and correctly 
each time new information came to light (such as Mr Gs poor credit history), with the only 
mistake being not speaking to P sooner when Mr G provided his April payslip.
In Mr Gs response to our investigator he has questioned why the adviser used an adverse 
credit lender rather than a high street lender, and why the adviser thought he would fit Ps 
lending criteria. He suggested Hey Habito was withholding information from this service, and 
suggested we obtain the correspondence history. I should make it clear that Hey Habito 
hasnt withheld any information and we have the full correspondence history.
I think Mr G is forgetting that the adviser was going to apply to a high street lender but it was 
Mr G that said he wouldnt be accepted, and hed need an adverse credit lender. It was also 
Mr G that suggested P as hed researched it and was satisfied he fitted its criteria.
Mr G was clear that he didnt want a credit search done, so all the adviser could do was 
review Mr Gs credit file and decide which lender was likely to be willing to provide an 
agreement in principle to Mr G without a credit search being failed. Mr Gs credit file 
showed a default in 2017 that had only just been paid off in March 2019, various missed 
payments since 2015 on different credit commitments, as well as a previous history of using 
payday loans and numerous recent credit searches for credit. Having reviewed that the 
adviser agreed it was unlikely a high street lender would be willing to consider Mr G for a 
mortgage. Having considered everything I agree that was a likely outcome at that time, and 
without credit checks being done (thus affecting Mr Gs credit score further) the decision to 
look at adverse credit lenders seemed a prudent one.
Mr G put forward P as a potential lender, something hes now saying the adviser shouldnt 
have considered as he doesnt fit its policy. But hes wrong. Had it not been for his lower 
April pay (something the adviser hadnt been warned was going to happen when he obtained 
an agreement in principle from P) then theres no reason why P would have had an issue 
with Mr Gs income. I say that because the agreement in principle was obtained with it 
knowing how his income was made-up. P was happy to treat Mr Gs extra income as a shift 
allowance for which it would take 100% (rather than just 50%). Thats its lending policy so 
the adviser did nothing wrong in moving ahead with an application to P.
Im satisfied Hey Habito did what it could to try to obtain a mortgage for Mr G, despite the 
changing position. Im also satisfied it told Mr G just 12 days after hed confirmed the 
purchase price that he was better off trying to obtain a mortgage elsewhere. If Mr G couldnt 
then meet a deadline that Hey Habito hadnt been made aware of I cant hold Hey Habito 
liable for that.
Having considered everything Im satisfied, on balance, Hey Habito didnt directly and solely 
cause Mr G to lose the property. For that reason I dont uphold the main thrust of the 
complaint.
That said, Hey Habito admitted that one failing in not checking with P sooner and it 
apologised for that. Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent 
punitive. Having considered everything Im satisfied that the £50 compensation already 
offered is fair, and so I make no additional order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Hey Habito Ltd made a fair offer. I leave 
it to Mr G to decide if  on reflection  he now wishes to accept that offer directly with the 
business. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman