DRN-2367074
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined a claim for a water leak 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B found some water damage in her bathroom. So, she contacted Aviva, which carried 
out an inspection. The shower tray was resealed by Mrs B and the claim didnt go any 
further. The damage got worse so Mrs B contacted Aviva again. Aviva carried out another 
inspection and concluded that the damage was due to a maintenance issue. It turned down 
the claim on the basis that it wasnt an insured event.
Mrs B complained to Aviva. When Aviva replied it maintained its decision to decline the claim 
but offered £50 compensation for how it had handled the complaint.
Mrs B also arranged for a builder to inspect the damage and then sent the builders report to 
Aviva. Aviva said that it thought the builders report supported its own findings that it was a 
maintenance issue.
Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it 
was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim on the basis of it being a maintenance 
issue, which wasnt covered by the policy. Mrs B didnt ask for this part of the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
Mrs B paid to repair the damage herself and provided our investigator with a report from the 
person who carried out the work. Mrs B said she wanted this to be considered. Our 
investigator explained that Aviva would need to consider the report first and that if Mrs B was 
unhappy with the response, she could then raise a new complaint.
When Aviva considered the report, it said it didnt change its findings that the damage was 
likely to be the result of a maintenance issue. When Mrs B complained about this, Aviva 
didnt change its view.
So, Mrs B complained to this service again. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
still thought it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim based on all of the evidence 
provided.
As Mrs B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether it was reasonable for Aviva to continue to decline the claim after 
it reviewed the report from the person who carried out the work. Having done so, although 
Im aware this will disappoint Mrs B, I think that it was. So, I dont uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Aviva carried out two inspections of damage in Mrs Bs bathroom. Both inspections found 
that the most likely cause was a maintenance issue related to the seal around the shower, 
which wasnt covered by the policy. Mrs B then had work carried out by a private contractor 
to deal with the issue. It isnt clear who this person was, which seems to be because the 
person didnt want their details passed on to the insurance company. 
The person who carried out the work also compiled a report. This said:
No obvious source of leak apparent on superficial inspection. Further invasive
inspection required involving removal of existing shower tiles, shower tray and
shower-room partition wall shower affixed to, and removal of existing shower
quadrant unit.
Findings:
On removal of the existing shower and wall tiles the plasterboard was found to be 
saturated from the level of the shower valve positioned 135cm from floor level, to the 
extent that the plasterboard did not retain any structural integrity.
On inspection of the shower valve, there was found to be a shearing failure in the o-ring 
gasket seal resulting in sudden and catastrophic water damage to the wall supporting the 
shower unit and the floor and ceiling below.
 
Conclusion:
The overall extent of damage indicated a sudden onset of water, with the origin of the 
source of the leak located mid-way up the partition wall supporting the shower unit.
I think that its reasonable for an insurer to investigate the circumstances of a claim and that 
can include following up on evidence provided. In this instance, Aviva wasnt able to do that. 
Aviva was provided with an anonymous report and wasnt able to discuss it with the person 
who wrote it, including about how the persons findings fitted with the issues Aviva had 
previously found during its inspections. However, Aviva did still consider the report and this 
didnt cause it to change its view that a maintenance issue was the most likely cause of the 
damage.
Im aware that Mrs B had said that very few people saw the full extent of the damage, but 
those who did included Mrs B and the person who carried out the work. She said this 
needed to be given sufficient weight in considering this complaint. 
Ive already explained why I think it was potentially difficult to put weight on the findings of 
the person who did the work. Mrs B said that she witnessed the damage first hand, including 
touching the crumbling plasterboard and the saturated joists and that she had documented 
the damage. 
Ive read Mrs Bs description of what happened and looked at the photos she provided and 
this doesnt cause me to think that Aviva acted unreasonably by turning down the claim. I 
accept that Mrs B saw and touched the damage. Mrs B said that the photos she provided 
didnt show the damaged plasterboard in the bathroom as this had totally disintegrated. This 
meant Aviva wasnt able to see the full extent of any damage found. The main evidence for 
the failure of the shower valve was a statement in an anonymous report that Aviva was 
unable to follow up on. I dont think that, or the other evidence provided, clearly 
demonstrated that the damage was the result of an insured risk, such as an escape of water 
from a shower valve.I also think it was reasonable for Aviva to consider the other available evidence to decide the 
most likely cause of the damage. Aviva had evidence from its inspections that there was a 
maintenance issue with the shower seal. This included the person who carried out the 
inspection running the shower head over the seals and round the shower enclosure, which 
resulted in water pouring onto the floor. Mrs B had also previously provided Aviva with a 
report from another builder that said:
We suspect there has been a long term leak from no sealant at the back of the shower 
screen profile secured to the wall, if this is so the water leakage has damaged plasterboard 
causing tiles to boss on wall & possible damaged flooring below shower base.
Im aware that Mrs B has since said she now disagrees with most of the builders report that 
she provided, but I dont think this meant that Aviva had to ignore it.
So, I think Aviva acted reasonably by considering the report from the person who carried out 
the work and it then maintaining its decision to decline the claim. Asa result, I dont require 
Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman