DRN-3051068
The complaint
Mr R complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr R was given loans by TFS as follows: 
Loan Date Amount Term 
(months)APR Monthly 
RepaymentTotal 
RepayableLoan Purpose
123/10/2012 £2,500 60 48.3% £96.60 £5,817.60 Decorating
205/11/2014 £3,500 48 44.9% £142.16 £6,823.68 Car 
repairs/Christmas
321/04/2015 £6,500 84 44.9% £220.60 £12,030.40 Car purchase
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided any of the loans to Mr R and she set out the steps that TFS 
needed to take to put things right. 
TFS initially asked for more time to respond, but that was two months ago. And although our 
investigator has sent reminder letters and set a final deadline for TFS to respond, we havent 
heard anything further from TFS.
 
So as things havent been resolved informally and TFS hasnt replied to us within a 
reasonable timeframe, Mr Rs complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. I dont know specifically what TFS thinks about what out investigator said 
in her view  I think it is reasonable to assume that TFS may disagree with her proposed 
outcome as it hasnt taken any steps to put into effect what she suggested. So I will deal with 
all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint.
When Mr R applied for these loans, TFS asked about his income and verified this each time 
by looking at up to date payslip information. It recorded information about Mr Rs regular 
expenditure and did its own credit checks. The income and expenditure assessments done 
by TFS suggested that these loans potentially looked affordable for Mr R. 
But I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Mr Rs overall financial situation each time  and the likelihood of him being 
able to pay its loans in a sustainable manner. And I dont think TFS made fair lending 
decisions on any of these loans when it lent to Mr R based on the information it had 
gathered.
I say this because, despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr R had 
enough spare cash each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think TFS 
shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information because what Mr R had 
declared was significantly at odds with what it saw on its credit checks showing Mr Rs 
credit history. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn. 
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of defaulted accounts that TFS could 
see on the credit checks it obtained when Mr R applied for loan 1. She referred to the fact that at this time, Mr Rs record showed five defaulted accounts, the most recent dating back 
just over two years, and she pointed out that TFS couldve seen that the total default balance 
had increased since the default dates. She mentioned that although it was apparent that Mr 
R was liable to be called on to pay these defaulted accounts TFS didnt seem to have 
allowed for this when assessing affordability  and it also hadnt accounted for him having 
taken out a loan just a few months earlier which was set to cost Mr R £47 each month over 
the next ten years. 
Given that Mr R was also committed to paying £197 per month towards a loan taken out in 
July 2011 with a five year term and a balance of £4,428 outstanding when he applied for this 
TFS loan, I think TFS should have realised that what it saw on its credit checks was 
seriously at odds with what Mr R had declared. Like our investigator, I think this credit history 
strongly suggested Mr R was already having serious money problems. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent to TFS that Mr R probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that its calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash at all  all the 
signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had already 
become unmanageable. Given the stated loan purpose, TFS would have understood that its 
loan would add to Mr Rs overall indebtedness. I agree with our investigator that TFS 
shouldve realised that Mr R was not in a position to sustainably repay another high-cost 
loan with repayments of around £96 each month, when he seemed to be already over-
stretched financially and unable to pay his existing outstanding financial commitments. So, it 
follows that I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide loan 1 to Mr R in these 
circumstances. 
Mr R used loan 2 to repay the outstanding balance on loan 1 and provide him with some 
extra funds that he told TFS would pay for car repairs and go towards the cost of Christmas. 
But the credit checks TFS did at the time now showed that Mr Rs financial situation had 
deteriorated further  our investigator listed a total of 16 defaulted accounts which amounted 
to a total default balance outstanding of more than £13,000. 
Looking at the credit checks TFS sent us, that seems about right to me. The most recent 
default had been just 7 months earlier, so it shouldve been apparent that these werent 
historic debts that could safely be ignored by a lender  Mr Rs money problems were recent 
and ongoing. 
And our investigator pointed out that two of the defaults related to utilities  indicating that 
Mr R was so financially over-stretched that he wasnt even able to keep up with essential 
monthly commitments. 
I share our investigators concern about this information and I think she was right to say that 
TFS saw enough to realise that whatever its affordability checks appeared to show, this 
information shouldve made it realise that it would be irresponsible to lend further to Mr R 
when it was evident that he was already failing to manage his existing debt  and this loan 
would simply add to his overall indebtedness. 
So I dont think TFS should have provided this loan or any further lending to Mr R.
When he took out loan 3, I agree with our investigator that nothing Mr R said was enough to 
explain his credit record or address the concerns that I think TFS ought properly to have 
had. 
I dont think that it had seen enough to be satisfied that this loan was likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr R. So I think that TFS was wrong to provide loan 3 to Mr R. Overall, I think TFS saw enough to make it realise, as a responsible lender, that Mr R was 
already struggling to manage his debt when he first applied to borrow from TFS. 
I dont think it was reasonably able to say that it ever saw any real evidence that his financial 
situation ever improved. 
The indications were that Mr Rs finances got worse over the period that TFS was lending to 
Mr R - and there was nothing to indicate that his financial situation would be significantly 
improved by taking out any of these loans with TFS. 
So I dont think I can reasonably say that it made fair lending decisions based on the 
information in front of it. 
As Mr R has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for loans that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of being given 
the loans. The payments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount
oif this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
oif any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr R bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
oremove any adverse information placed on Mr Rs credit file regarding the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman