DRN-3633626
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr P was introduced to Esteem by his own financial adviser who didnt have the appropriate 
permissions to give defined benefit transfer advice in 2017. 
Following an initial fact find, Mr Ps personal situation was documented as follows:
He was 33 and lived with his partner.
He had two dependent children aged eight and one.
He was employed, earning £32,000 gross a year.
He and his partner owned their own home valued at £140,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £95,000 with 20 years left.
He was in good health with no knowledge of any family history of health issues.
He had £1,000 in cash savings and unsecured debt of £7,800 across loans and 
credit cards.
Household expenditure was recorded as £1,450 a month and this left £1,335 a month
disposable income.
He and his partner had life cover for the mortgage. He also had death in service 
(DIS) life cover of three times his salary.
Mr Ps retirement key objective was summarised as follows:
Your main concern is to ensure that the pension benefits are not lost on your premature 
death, as you and [partner] are not married and do not intend to, she would not qualify for 
the spouse's benefit. You want to ensure she receives the full value on your death, and that 
if she predeceases you, the fund would also be available for the children.
Mr P had two pension arrangements. The BSPS entitlement with a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £113,219.96 guaranteed until 15 December 2017, and his defined 
contribution arrangement, which was receiving 6% member contributions and 10% employer 
and would have had a relatively small value at the time of the advice.
At normal retirement age (65) Mr Ps deferred defined benefits pension under the BSPS 
would provide an income of £11,045 pa with the option to take tax free cash and a reduced 
income.
His attitude to risk (ATR) was agreed as moderate and this was described in the suitability
report as follows:
You prefer to invest in a broad range of core stock-market linked investments, where the 
overall returns achieved are more closely linked to the performance of the underlying assets. 
In so doing, this will provide you with the potential to benefit from real capital growth.
However, you should be aware that investment values will fluctuate according to market
conditions.
Mr P had no knowledge and experience of financial products and investments. A
defined benefit pension Transfer Analysis (TVAS) had been undertaken to show the level of
investment growth required in order to replace the benefits under the BSPS2 and the PPF at
age 65. This was the critical yield, and was calculated as follows:
To match the BSPS benefits at age 65, a transfer would need a critical yield of 
5.16%.
To match the PPF benefits at age 65, a transfer would need a critical yield of 4.85%.
Esteem recommended that Mr P transfer the BSPS entitlement to a PPP portfolio and invest 
in the Governed Portfolio 4 which invested in around nine funds spread across different 
assets and locations.
Fund charges were disclosed to Mr P. Esteem would be taking an initial
(contingent) fee of £2,500 and the introducing advisor would take 1% pa for ongoingservicing. The PPP charges were disclosed as annual management charge of 0.45% - fund 
charges were not disclosed.
In October 2021, Mr P complained to Esteem, saying that the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable.
Esteem responded, concluding that the advice to transfer had been suitable.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
As Mr P only had a small amount of defined contributions at the point of the advice, 
the defined benefits within the BSPS would form the most significant part of his 
pension provision.
There were understandably concerns about the BSPS at the time of the advice and 
time was of the essence in choosing what to do. But Esteem could have provided 
reassurance regarding his options to enter the BSPS 2 or the PPF, rather than 
recommending the transfer.
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The main (and only) reason for recommending the transfer, as confirmed in the 
suitability report and the final response letter, was the lump sum death benefits which 
would be provided by the transfer. The benefits which would be provided by the 
BSPS were considered to be inferior when compared to those which would be 
provided by a PPP.
But the retirement benefits should have been considered as being primarily for Mr Ps 
benefit, rather than for his family.
To place Mr P in an informed position, Esteem should have discussed alternatives 
and provided whole of life quotes to match the lump sum benefits.
The critical yields to match the benefits provided by the BSPS 2 and the PPF were 
lower than for the BSPS, but for the BSPS 2, this was 5.16% pa to match the scheme 
benefits at age 65.
The advice had been given when this service was publishing information with which 
businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate of the more than 30 years until Mr Ps normal retirement date was 
4.7% pa.Taking this into account, in addition to the regulators projection rates of 2%, 5% and 
8% for the low, mid and high growth assumptions, along with Mr Ps attitude to risk, 
there was limited scope for the scheme benefits to be bettered through a transfer.
In the regulators guidance issued in June 2017, it said the following:
This guidance will make clear that in order to provide a suitable personal 
recommendation an adviser should consider the following elements:
 the clients income needs and expectations and how these can be achieved, the 
role safeguarded benefits play in providing this income and the impact and risk if a 
conversion or transfer is made
There were call notes detailing a discussion about Mr P retiring early at age 57 with 
an income of £900 pm. Mr P had agreed in communication with the investigator that 
he would like to leave the steel industry at 57, but had no recollection of specific 
monetary amounts being discussed. This was unsurprising, the investigator said, 
given the number of years until Mr Ps prospective retirement.
The Retirement Planning Report showed an income of £12,000 pa being taken from 
age 57, but Mr P had no need to transfer to achieve this as he would have accrued 
25 years defined contributions, which at a fund growth rate of 3% would have meant 
a fund value of around £190,000, unadjusted for wage increases.
This would have provided the £900 pm required, even adjusting for inflation, until Mr 
P was 65. But if Mr P needed to access his scheme benefits sooner, this was 
possible under both the BSPS 2 and the PPF. The evidence didnt support the 
position of the transfer being able to meet Mr Ps true income need.
There was no reason for Mr P to transfer when he did, and given the critical yield and 
lack of consideration of alternatives, the advice couldnt be said to have been in Mr 
Ps best interests.
The investigator recommended that Esteem undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr P
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ps pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr P, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Additionally, the investigator recommended that Esteem pay Mr P £300 in respect of the 
impact the worry about losing his pension would have had on him.
Mr P agreed with the investigators findings. Esteem didnt, however. Ive read its response 
in its entirety, but summarise the main points below:
If the complaint was upheld, the comparator should be the PPF as this was the only 
option open to members if they chose to stay in the BSPS.
The harsh environment of the steel industry meant that early retirement was often a 
key objective. And the death benefits in the event of premature death were typically 
higher in the case of transfers.Disproportionate emphasis had been placed on the critical yield, which was a blunt 
tool, and didnt take into account Mr Ps single status. The hurdle rate, which 
required a lower growth rate to match the scheme benefits, was therefore more 
relevant here.
The BSPS 2 didnt exist at the time of the advice and there were no guarantees that it 
would be implemented. Further, a transfer into the PPF would represent a reduction 
in overall benefits and members quite understandably viewed this prospect 
negatively.
Mr P made a fully informed decision to transfer. He didnt at any time suggest that his 
circumstances or objectives had been misunderstood, and the risks and 
disadvantages of the transfer were conveyed to him.
There was no evidence that Mr P had suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
transfer.
It needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the transfer was suitable, and 
exercise reasonable skill and care in advising Mr P - not provide a guarantee that it 
would work out to be in Mr Ps best financial interests.
The critical yields quoted by the investigator related to the BSPS rather than the 
BSPS 2  for the latter the figures were 4.53% and 4.65% assuming that Mr P took 
tax free cash.
But for the hurdle rate, which was the more relevant given Mr Ps marital status, they 
were 3.59% and 3.06% respectively. These were both realistic and achievable.
The recommended fund had demonstrated a 4.93% compound annual growth rate 
over five years up to June 2022, and 8.93% since its launch.
The regulator had warned against placing too much reliance on critical yields and 
that this should not be at the expense of an individuals personal circumstances, 
which also needed to be taken into account.
Mr P in any case had no intention of buying an annuity, and would not be reliant upon 
that income in retirement.
There was no evidence that Mr P would have remained in the scheme and 
transferred to the BSPS had he received different advice.
Mr P was now having second thoughts about his fully informed decision to transfer 
and had raised the complaint in the hope of receiving redress.
Esteem also requested an oral hearing. Further communication passed between the 
investigator and Esteem, in particular relating to the latters comments that the hurdle rate 
would be more relevant than the critical yield in this case, given Mr Ps single status. The 
investigator clarified that, at the time of the advice, Mr P had two dependent children, and so 
it wasnt only spouses death benefits which needed to be factored in.
But as agreement couldnt be reached, the investigator said that the complaint would be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.The investigator then enquired of Mr P as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his 
preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await 
the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
The (new) investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses 
to use the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Esteem to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr P.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023.
In response, Esteem confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if 
an ombudsman upheld the complaint.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.
At my request, the investigator has enquired of Esteem as to why it had requested a hearing, 
asking it to set out the reasons for this so I could take them into account when deciding 
whether a hearing was necessary. Esteem hasnt responded, however.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly say that, with regard to Esteems initial hearing request, and in the absence of 
further reasoning as to why one might be necessary, Im satisfied that theres sufficient 
information on the file for me to be able make a decision on the basis of whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.
And having the considered the merits of the case, Ive reached similar conclusions to the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Esteem advised Mr P were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Esteem, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Esteem needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Mr Ps objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    (2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Esteems advice to Mr P in the context of the 
above requirements and guidance.
Esteems rationale for transferring
Mr P wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and Esteem was taking 
him through the advice process. Therefore, Esteem could be confident that he would be 
acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr P and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Ps options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr P would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
Esteem obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ps objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but I agree that they would 
nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible 
at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.7% pa. And the mid band growth rate set out by the regulator for growth 
assumptions was 5% pa.
Ive noted what esteem has said about the critical yields quoted by the investigator being to 
match the BSPS benefits rather than those from the BSPS 2. But the critical yield to age 65, 
at 5.16%, exceeded both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same 
periods, and the mid growth rate set out by the regulator  the latter of which might perhaps 
be a reasonable assumption for a moderate risk investor.
In its response to the investigators view, Esteem quoted the lower critical yields to match the 
benefits provided by the BSPS 2 of 4.53% assuming that Mr P took tax free cash. From a purely financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of 
the scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the 
guidance was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ps 
best interests. 
On the basis of retirement at 65, the critical yield if Mr P planned to take the tax free lump 
sum was below the discount rate, and so may on the face of it have seemed achievable.
But I think its also worth noting that the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt 
in any case indicate suitability of a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. And so Ive then 
considered the overall suitability of the transfer, taking into account other considerations.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that Esteem did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as Esteem will be 
aware, and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable 
advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this 
also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. Esteem needed to be satisfied, 
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the 
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr P.
As set out above, Esteems predominant reason for transferring was to provide lump sum 
death benefits, given his single status (which I address further below). But he was also 
recorded as wanting flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances, objectives 
(including the prospect of early retirement), and concerns about his employer and the 
pension scheme. And so Ive given this argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr P may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
I also think its quite possible that Mr P had a moderate risk rating, given his age and 
number of years to retirement. 
Esteem has also said that Mr P wouldnt be reliant upon the income from the BSPS in 
retirement. 
But this does then beg the question as to why Mr P needed to transfer his guaranteed 
benefits at all. 
As set out by Esteem, Mr P had joined the replacement defined contribution scheme, and so 
would likely have accrued a reasonable amount of money purchase benefits given the 
overall contribution rate (if he remained with the same employer) by retirement. But other 
than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until age 67, the defined benefits accrued 
through the BSPS were still likely to have been his only source of guaranteed income. 
Through transferring, Mr P was effectively putting all of his eggs  barring the state pension - 
in one money purchase basket.
And I just cant see why Mr P needed to take the associated additional risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr P would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy potentially changing income needs.  But other than concerns around the employer, with which Mr P said he wished to break all 
ties in relation to his pension, and associated scheme, which Ill address further below, its 
unclear as to why Mr P would have wanted or needed such additional flexibility at the cost of 
such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk associated with the transfer, 
and bearing in mind his moderate cautious attitude to risk and apparent lack of any similar 
historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his 
pension income.
And if Mr P wished to retire early (in 30 or so years time), he could do so whilst also 
retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And in my 
consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr P to take tax free cash 
from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income. 
But by age 65, Mr P would have accrued around 32 years worth of defined contributions in 
the replacement scheme, or 27 years by age 60. Given the likely value of this separate pot 
of money on the basis of the employer and employee contribution rates, this would likely be 
used to fund the bulk of his retirement needs between age 60, if indeed, as asserted by 
Esteem, he needed to do so at all, and his OPS/state pension beginning. Its in fact likely 
that he could have relied on the proceeds of his defined contribution plan for flexible access 
to pension benefits, from whatever age after 57, and then taken guaranteed benefits from 
either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when (or if) needed. 
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
left to age 65 (for example if his circumstances changed)  although I would say that I dont 
think the actual income requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could 
in any case reasonably have been known with any certainty given his distance from 
retirement - Mr P could then have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr P would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income (or lump sum
withdrawals if he later decided he wanted them) through the defined contribution accrual, 
until the point that he either needed, or chose, to begin taking benefits from either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF. And so any need for flexibility of income could have been addressed in this 
way.
Mr P may then have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which was higher 
than his actual needs, especially when the state pension began, but he could have simply 
reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his family, immediately gift it 
away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
Mr P may have been willing to accept a measure of risk for the sake of improving his income 
in retirement (albeit according to Esteem apparently not needed in any case), and as Ive 
said above, although Mr P didnt have any particular financial experience, I think he may 
have understood the principle of risk/reward, and risk warnings were provided by Esteem. 
But as Ive also noted above, Mr P was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution 
scheme, and given the likely accumulation of funds in that scheme, compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme retirement age, around 32 
years of his pension accrual at age 65 (or 27 by age 60) would likely be derived of the 
defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr P would already by necessity have been taking 
investment risk through the replacement scheme.In light of this, and given that in the eight years up to that point Mr P had been accruing 
defined benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been 
of some significant value as a foundation of stable, escalating income to hedge against 
uncertain returns in the defined contributions scheme, especially for a moderate risk rated 
individual, and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which was 
loosely defined around the apparent desire for early retirement (some 23 years before this 
would be even be possible) and concerns around the employer/scheme. 
Ive also noted what Esteem has said about the historic performance of the recommended 
portfolio before the advice, and since. And as impressive as this might have seemed at the 
time of its response to the investigators view, I note that this has been somewhat less 
impressive since then, with a return over the last year of around 1.5%.
And this is rather the point. Even employing the benefit of known performance before the 
advice, and the benefit of hindsight in terms of performance since, Mr P had 32 years until 
the schemes normal retirement date, and whilst looking at fund performance (and indeed 
interest rates and CPI) over a few years might suggest that, if that trend continued, the funds 
would perform well, that trend needed to be sustained for a very long time. And the 
reasonable likelihood of that kind of stable environment, which would at the very least match 
the required critical yields (which, blunt instrument or not, were still a reasonable indicator of 
the required returns) for that length of time was, in my view, low.
And on the particular note of Mr Ps concerns about the employer and the scheme, as with 
others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr P would have been concerned about the 
future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Ps concerns around this should have 
been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks 
financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the
employer, even if Mr P distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which 
had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the 
necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and 
in fact by the point of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than 
not to be a viable alternative. 
Its fair to say that there were still conditions which still needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to 
be established, but when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the 
BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I 
think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the contrary.
And so I think that, had Mr Ps concerns been better managed, a seeming key driver for 
having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Mr P therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. The prospect of Mr Ps accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. 
But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with 
valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in 
fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
Mr Ps plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 24 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 57. Any flexibility requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ps retirement  and Mr P would have 
been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
There may have been lower CETVs offered in the future if gilt yields and other market 
factors changed, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr P could have achieved a degree of 
flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he did 
ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could 
have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr P or his adviser could then 
assess at that point whether a transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr P to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
As set out in the suitability report, this was the predominant reason for the transfer. And so 
Ive carefully considered what Esteem said in the suitability report about the different format 
of the death benefits being appealing to Mr P, given his relationship status.
And its fair to say that, if Mr P remained unmarried, the death benefits offered by the 
transfer would likely be more beneficial to Mr Ps partner, given the scheme rules. 
The investigator made the point that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an 
individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy in the form of a lump sum. And 
in general terms Id agree - the recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ps 
best interests, and any dependent children would in any case receive a dependants pension 
from the scheme until leaving full time education.
But I do acknowledge the point about Mr Ps partner. However, as partners whod had 
children together, I think its more likely than not that they would have envisaged having a 
joint vested interest in Mr Ps security in retirement. 
So there was a financial trade off to be considered between the likelihood for Mr P and his 
partner to be able to benefit from the higher guaranteed income than would be received by 
way of a transfer, for a reasonable number of years, and the prospect of Mr Ps partner 
being able to benefit from a lump sum payment in the event of his death.
In my own consideration of this, Ive firstly noted that Mr P was recorded as being in good 
health. And he had no health issues which might mean that death benefits, or any likelihood 
to not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, 
were of concern at that point. 
If Mr P died whilst still employed, his partner would have received the death in service 
benefit, at several multiples of his salary, plus a return of his defined contributions up that 
point. There would also be the fund value of his defined contributions, in addition to the 
return of his own contributions. Dependent upon what point before retirement this occurred, 
Mr Ps partner could therefore in any case have comfortably received several hundreds of 
thousands of pounds as a lump sum. And I also note that life cover was in place to repay the 
outstanding mortgage.
And all of this of course precludes the possibility that Mr P and his partner may have married 
in the interim. As far as Im aware, there was no recorded prospect of that at the time of the 
advice, and so I havent factored this into the above assessment, but given the number of 
years to retirement, and the benefits to be gained by retirement age for Mr Ps partner if they, for example, had little or no pension provision of their own, I dont think it can 
necessarily be ruled out as a possibility. 
I therefore think that Mr P more likely than not had an entirely understandable desire to leave 
a financial legacy for his partner, but given the other sources of lump sum payments, in 
addition to the mortgage being repaid by life cover already in place, I dont think the lump 
sum which would have derived from transferring was essential, and certainly not to the 
extent that it would justify Mr P compromising the security of his own, and his partners, 
financial future whilst still alive.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit by way of 
transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr P personally, and his partner. 
What should Esteem have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ps decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr P. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr P to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of Esteem to
explain to Mr P why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Ps scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have 
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point 
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be 
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr P was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr P, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, especially relating to flexibility and lump sum death benefits, I 
dont think enough weight or consideration was given to the means, such as the defined 
contributions plans, as set out above, of providing for Mr Ps partner beyond the benefits 
which might be payable from the scheme.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ps
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr P to relinquish 8 years valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 
33.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ps concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a futurepension which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon 
investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise 
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits beyond the five years 
guaranteed payment period were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, should Mr 
Ps relationship circumstances change in the future, albeit in a different format from those 
available from the PPP.
Taking account of Mr Ps circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF, my view is that Esteem should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, given that Mr P would have been reliant on the advice 
given to him, he would have followed that advice and not transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr P, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ps options and the future benefits available from both the 
BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) 
and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least three of the key benefits sought by Mr P were available without 
needing to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different 
types of scheme benefits which would have been available to him, along with lump sum 
death benefits through the other means available, both before and after retirement. 
Although the critical yield to age 65 on the basis of Mr P taking tax free cash at retirement 
may have been lower than the discount rate, as the other reasons for transferring were 
insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, 
as set out by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, Esteem would - or should - then have drawn, 
and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ps best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr P would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ps pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. But as Mr P was single at the time, and unless he had undisclosed plans 
to marry, I dont think this particular enhancement over the PPF benefits would have had 
much resonance for him at that time.The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Ps recorded objectives was the possibility of being able to retire early. And so this 
would have been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he 
should opt for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the 
PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, even if Mr P envisaged retiring early, I think its likely that, 
properly advised, he could have accessed his defined contribution scheme benefits to make 
up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined 
benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age. The 
advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt therefore have applied.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I therefore consider that Mr P would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. And as Ive set out 
above, given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr P 
would take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined 
above, of accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required.
Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer 
advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to 
Mr P and our service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr P hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years So, given my comments above 
about not in any case likely needing to access the defined benefits before age 65, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts the offer of Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, to 
calculate how much of its redress could be augmented, request the necessary 
information and not charge Mr P for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not 
to have any of its redress augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money. 
to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Esteem Money Ltd, trading as 
Esteem Money.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr P could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr P may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept my final decision.
As with the investigator, my view is that this matter will have caused Mr P a not 
inconsiderable amount of concern about his security in retirement. As such, I agree that 
Esteem Money Ltd, trading as Esteem Money, should also pay Mr P £300 in respect of this.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Esteem Money Ltd, trading as 
Esteem Money, to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman