DRN-3559993
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc failed to restart the payments on his loan after a 
payment freeze and then restarted them later without his permission and without discussing 
an affordable repayment amount.
What happened
Mr B was provided with a £16,500 personal loan in October 2016 by Sainsburys Bank. The 
loan term was 62 months and Mr B was required to make monthly repayments of just under 
£350. Mr B maintained his repayments until the pandemic when he took a three-month 
payment holiday. Following this there was a mistake and his payments werent reinstated. 
He says he wasnt aware of this until January 2022 and then Sainsburys Bank started to 
take monthly repayments of £350 without his permission. He says this has had a financial 
impact on him given his other increased costs. He thinks the debt should be written off due 
to Sainsburys Banks mistake or that at least an affordable repayment amount should be 
discussed.
Sainsburys Bank said that Mr B contacted it in February 2021 to request an emergency 
payment freeze due to being impacted financially by the pandemic. This was agreed and it 
cancelled Mr Bs direct debit to prevent payment being taken the next month. The payment 
freeze was due to end in June 2021 at which point payments should have resumed. 
However, this didnt happen, and the freeze remained in place for a further seven months. 
Sainsburys Bank said Mr B didnt contact it during this period or make any payments. In 
February 2022 it contacted Mr B to say his payments would resume on 28 February 2022 
and to confirm the repayment amount. Mr B called on 17 February as he thought his loan 
had ended. Sainsburys Bank said that as the direct debit wasnt set up in time for the 
February payment the late payment charges and additional interest were refunded but the 
payment remained outstanding and it contacted Mr B about this. The direct debit was set up 
in March 2022 and confirmation of this was sent. Sainsburys Bank wrote to Mr B to say that 
the additional interest incurred due to the additional seven months of the payment freeze 
would be refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He acknowledged that Sainsburys Bank had 
made a mistake be not restarting Mr Bs loan repayments in June 2021 (after the payment 
freeze) but didnt think disadvantaged Mr B. He noted that Mr B had a responsibility to 
monitor and manage his account and didnt think Sainsburys Bank was wrong to restart the 
repayments after the issue was identified. He noted there was an issue about the February 
payment but thought this was due and so didnt think Sainsburys Bank was wrong to contact 
Mr B about this.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view and said that Sainsburys Bank had broken 
GDPR. He said was told the first payment would be taken in March and he is being pestered 
about arrears when he has made his payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was provided with a £16,500 personal loan by Sainsburys Bank in October 2016. It 
was due to end in December 2021. Mr B maintained his repayments until February 2021 
when, due to the financial impact of the pandemic, he requested a payment freeze. There 
was guidance in place at the time about providing support for customers affected by the 
pandemic and as Sainsburys Bank agreed to a three-month payment freeze, I find it offered 
the support expected.
Mr Bs complaint has arisen as, following the payment freeze (due to end in June 2021), 
Mr Bs loan repayments werent reinstated. While it was Sainsburys Banks responsibility to 
reinstate the payments, Mr B also had a responsibility to make the payments due under his 
loan agreement. He would have been aware when he requested the payment freeze that he 
would be required to resume payments after the three-month period and so when these 
werent resumed I think it would have been reasonable for him to contact Sainsburys Bank 
about this. That said, Sainsburys Bank did make a mistake by no reinstating the payments 
and so I have considered the impact of this.
My role isnt to punish the business but where a mistake has been made, we would expect 
the customer to be put back in the position they would have been had the mistake not been 
made. In this case, Mr B had an extra seven months payment freeze (additional to the three 
months agreed). Sainsburys Bank has confirmed that Mr Bs credit file hasnt been affected 
by this and it has said the additional interest incurred by the extra seven months payment 
freeze will be refunded. Therefore, I find that Mr B hasnt been disadvantaged by this issue 
and given he had an extended period of no payments I think this will have been a benefit.
Mr B has said the outstanding balance should be waived due to this issue. I do not find this 
is reasonable. Mr B entered into a loan agreement and agreed to its terms. Sainsburys Bank 
provided him with assistance due to the pandemic and Mr B would have been aware at that 
time of the balance still outstanding and that this would need to be paid after the payment 
freeze. The payment freeze was extended in error, but I do not find this changes the 
underlying liability for Mr B to make the repayments due under the loan agreement.
Mr B has said that the payments were started again without discussion about whether these 
were affordable. While I do not find that Sainsburys Bank was wrong to inform Mr B of the 
payments starting again and the amount that would be due, if he is experiencing financial 
difficulties he should contact Sainsburys Bank about this and we would expect Sainsburys 
Bank to treat him positively and sympathetically and to work with him regarding his 
outstanding balance. 
Mr B has said he was told his repayments would start again in March, but he has received 
letters about a missed payment in February. Sainsburys Bank sent Mr B a letter dated 11 
February 2022 setting out his payment amount and saying this would be collected on 28 
February 2022. Given this I think Mr B should have been aware a payment was due in 
February. Mr B called Sainsburys Bank and having listened to this call he is questioning the 
payment and is told there is no direct debit set up. He isnt told the payment isnt due but is 
told this will be looked into. Mr B then received a letter dated 1 March with his direct debit 
details and a further letter dated 2 March which set out the refund for the interest incurred by 
the additional seven months payment freeze. The 2 March letter says the first payment is 
due on 28 March 2022, but the letter then refers to the direct debit which it has been 
accepted wasnt set up until March. On balance, I do not find I can say Sainsburys Bank is 
wrong to say the February payment was due, not least as payments had been due from 
June 2021 and a letter was sent confirming the payment amount in February 2022. But I can 
see that there was conflicting information provided. Given this, I think it fair that Mr B was 
refunded the late payment charges.Mr B has said that there may have been a data breach by Sainsburys Bank in regard to it 
accessing his bank details for the repayments. I understand his concerns but my role isn't to 
decide if a business has breached data protection laws. This is, as the investigator 
explained, for the Information Commissioners Office. While I can consider whether it is fair 
for the business to pay compensation to recognise the impact of what's happened, I do not 
find this is required in this case. As set out above I do not find that Sainsburys Bank was 
wrong to restart the repayments towards the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Sainsburys Bank to do anything further in response 
to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman