DRN-1708535
 
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) mis-sold 
investments to them. 
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W met with an advisor at SJP in 2013 to discuss moving their investments 
from their current provider as they were unhappy with the levels of return that they were 
receiving on their investments. Mr W had attended a seminar by SJP and was impressed by 
what he heard at the seminar and the level of returns that SJP had secured for their clients 
in previous years.
The advisor went through their financial circumstances and objectives and recorded his 
understanding of them in SJPs internal financial review document. Mr W states that their 
objective was to invest their savings for their old age and to have immediate access to their 
capital in the event they needed to pay for any high value expenditure. Mr W also 
understood that the investment would include an element of inheritance tax planning.  
The advisor at SJP recommended that Mr and Mrs W invest in an investment bond loan plan 
which he said would meet their objective.  Mr and Mrs W invested £468,000 into these 
bonds. In order to maximise inheritance tax planning, the investments were set up within a 
trust by SJP of which Mr and Mrs W were Trustees. The beneficiaries of the trust were their 
children. There were two conditions of this loan plan that are worth highlighting:
Mr and Mrs W could make regular withdrawals or lump sums from the loan plan 
Mr and Mrs W would have no access to any growth that might accumulate from holding the 
bonds.  Any growth would be held outside their estate for the benefit of the beneficiaries. Mr 
and Mrs W would retain the ability to recall the outstanding loan at any time.
Mr and Mrs W were happy with the performance of their investments and they say that it was 
only when talking to another financial advisor, on an unrelated matter, that they fully 
appreciated how the investments had been set up within the trust and that they would have 
no access to the growth arising from the bonds.
They complained to SJP to say that their investments had been mis-sold and that they had 
no idea that the set up of the investment would stop them accessing the growth on the 
capital under the loan structure in which they were Trustees. They felt that the process of 
how the investments were set up was not properly explained and they did not receive 
anything in writing setting out what had been recommended and why.
They also complained that they were not sent SJPs suitability letter. This letter, which they 
say was not received by them, was sent two weeks after their money was invested. They 
feel strongly that this suitability letter does not accurately show a true reflection of their 
assets or explain the nature of what their financial objective was in taking out the bonds. 
They also say that the charges for the investment were not made clear and what potential 
impact they would have on the capital.
SJP considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and investigated each of their points and replied 
with detailed responses however they did not believe that they had done anything wrong and 
didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. SJP did offer Mr and Mrs W £500 in recognition of 
the delays in responding to their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to the service and one of our investigators reviewed their 
complaint. The investigator did not think that SJP had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with the investigators response, Mr and Mrs W asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same 
reasons.  Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Before I explain further, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr 
and Mrs W have about this matter.  Mr and Mrs W have provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint but based on all of evidence and on balance, Im unable to safely say 
that the product was mis-sold.
In determining if the business has done anything wrong, I need to consider what discussions 
would likely have taken place between the business and Mr and Mrs W and what information 
was recorded and shared with them. I also need to consider if the product sold to Mr and 
Mrs W did what it was intended to do and was suitable for them.
Financial firms who give advice to clients are required to assess the suitability of that advice 
having taken into account various factors including the clients financial circumstances, their 
tolerance to risk and their financial objectives. These discussions can take place face to face 
or via a questionnaire or form which is completed by the client. In the case of this complaint, 
Mr and Mrs W met face to face with a financial advisor at SJP. From what I have seen in the 
file, these discussions took place over three meetings.  
The advisor at SJP completed a Confidential Financial Review (CFR) with Mr and Mrs W 
present.  This SJP document captures information such as income and assets held, 
disposable income and future circumstances and liabilities.  The document also records the 
tax status and any inheritance or estate planning. The information on this CFR was then 
likely used to draft the Suitability Letter.  A Suitability Letter is a regulatory document that 
firms are required to send to clients which summarises the clients financial details and 
circumstances together with their investment objectives. It also records the 
recommendations made and the reasons behind them. The letter is intended to be used as 
the summary document for both the firm and the client.
I can see from the file documents that this letter was dated 9 July 2013. Mr and Mrs W say 
that they didnt receive this letter and only became aware of its existence at a later date 
when they complained. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed in 
connection to the suitability letter.
Contents of the suitability letter 
The letter from SJP to Mr and Mrs W dated 9 July 2013 is comprehensive and goes into 
detail regarding their financial circumstances. Mr and Mrs W say however that much of this content is incorrect and doesnt accurately reflect the discussions that they had with the 
financial advisor at SJP.  
As the discussions between Mr and Mrs W and the advisor took place in face to face 
meetings, its not possible for me to be certain what was said and why there is an apparent 
difference of opinion on these pieces of information.
Mr and Mrs W also say that some key facts about their financial position were mis-stated 
including investment assets that were held and money in their bank account.  In the 
complaint response from SJP, they have stated their advice would have broadly been the 
same had Mr and Mrs Ws figures been used.
The Suitability Letter explains how the loan plan will be set up and what the advantages are 
in relation to inheritance tax planning.  
Was the Suitability Letter sent?
From the records that I have seen, the Suitability Letter was dated 9 July 2013 and the letter 
appears to have been addressed correctly. 
Mr and Mrs W say that this letter was never received but on the balance of probability, I think 
its likely that SJP sent the letter. I accept its possible that it wasnt sent, but it was a 
regulatory requirement to send it and I think Mr and Mrs W were probably expecting to 
receive a summary of the advice theyd been given, or ought to have expected to receive it, 
so it seems unlikely it was deliberately withheld. The bulk of correctly addressed mail is 
delivered, according to Royal Mail, so looking at this objectively it is more likely than not that 
the letter was delivered. It is possible that this was one of the small proportion of mail items 
that isnt received by the addressees. As the letter was handled by a third party (Royal Mail), 
I cannot hold SJP responsible if the letter did not arrive at the intended address.
It is of course regrettable that I cannot say for certain whether or not Mr and Mrs W received 
this key document but I think on the balance of probability that it was sent and received.
Mr W states that as the letter was sent two weeks after SJP accepted their money, it would 
have been too late to unwind the investments.  I disagree, I think that a two week timescale 
would still have given SJP enough time to unwind any transactions that were made. 
Loan Plan and the operation within the Trust 
A key part of this complaint is how the loan plan was set up and how it performed within the 
Trust. The Trust was set up in order to make use of any Inheritance Tax planning benefits. 
The key feature being that any growth on the investments would fall outside the clients 
estate and not be liable for Inheritance Tax.  
As the discussions between Mr and Mrs W and SJP took place face to face I am not able to 
know what was said in these meetings. Instead, I need to consider Mr and Mrs Ws and the 
advisers recollections, together with the available documentation to understand if it was 
likely that the SJP made Mr and Mrs W aware of how the Trust was set up and the 
consequences of having it in place.
I can see from the file that the operation of the loan plan and the trust were noted in two 
separate documents.
Suitability Letter:Within the Your needs and Objectives section
You preferred to take action immediately to address your inheritance tax liability and are 
happy to deal with the liability over the long term, i.e. you preferred for all future growth on 
your investments to be outside of your estate.
Within the Your existing Provisions section
You have confirmed that you are looking to draw an income from your new Loan plans. You 
would like to retain access to your capital in case of emergency, hence you are happy to 
take steps towards IHT planning by allowing the growth only on your investment to fall 
outside of your estate.
Within the Reasons for Recommendations section
The primary reason for investing into a Loan Plan is that all investment growth is outside of 
your estate and will not therefore be liable to inheritance tax. You will however still retain the 
ability to recall the outstanding loan at any time  this is very important to you
You have stated that you can easily afford to forego the capital that is being gifted and any 
income that could be derived from the capital. You will be able to access capital from the 
fund up to the value of any outstanding loan amount, but you will not be able to access any 
future growth derived from the loan capital and you can afford to do this
Any growth on the loan will fall immediately outside of your estate
Within the Alternative Actions section
We also discussed the possibility of a Discounted Gift Plan  however you wanted more 
flexibility than is available via a Discounted Gift Plan.  You want to retain access to your 
capital and you would like only the growth on your loan to fall outside your estate.
Trust and Loan Agreement:
The Recitals within this agreement state that 
The Settlor and the Trustees further wish to ensure that, notwithstanding the loan (or any 
other loans made at any time by the Settlor to the Trustees) all plans, cash, investments or 
any other property gifted by the Settlor into the Trust (and the income of all such property) is 
at all times enjoyed to the entire exclusion of the Settlor and to the entire exclusion of any 
benefit to the Settlor by contract or otherwise. 
My understanding of this clause means that the Settlor (which in this case was Mr and Mrs 
W) gave up any benefit arising from the loan, although they were entitled to repayment of the 
loan. Any growth or income arising from the loan plan was to be given to the trust and 
enjoyed to the entire exclusion of the settlor.
This agreement was signed by Mr and Mrs W.
I said that in determining if the business has done anything wrong, I need to consider what 
discussions would likely have taken place between the business and Mr and Mrs W and 
what information was recorded and shared with them. From what I have seen in documentation available to me, I think its likely Mr and Mrs W were informed of how the loan 
plan and trust would operate in practice and the consequences of setting it up in this way.
I believe that the documentation states what would happen to the growth arising from the 
loan plan and that it would be outside of Mr and Mrs Ws estate and to the benefit of the 
beneficiaries. Mr and Mrs W have said that they did not receive the suitability letter, but the 
Trust Loan Agreement was signed by Mr and Mrs W and includes details on what would 
happen to any benefit arising from the loan.
Mr W has said in his submissions that if they had seen the suitability letter, they would have 
picked up on the statement that their primary aim was to take steps to mitigate inheritance 
tax liability on their estate. I do understand this, but Mr and Mrs W also saw and signed the 
Trust Loan Document which, while couched in legal terms, is not unduly long and I think 
ought to have led them to realise that the trust was for the benefit of their children. 
Mr W has said that he would have picked up the contents of the suitability letter had he seen 
it.  I have to say that it seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would have signed the Trust Loan 
Document and committed £468,000 to this investment without reading it and at the very least 
ought to have led them to question who benefitted from the trust and how it operated. 
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-sold the investments so I also need to see if the 
product sold to Mr and Mrs W did what it was intended to do and was suitable for them.
From what I have seen, the product which was the loan note operated in the way it was 
intended. Mr and Mrs W made use of monthly withdrawals to supplement their income, the 
investments increased in value and the growth continued to be held in trust for the benefit of 
the beneficiaries.
Mr and Mrs W complain that they needed access to their capital to pay for any emergency 
situations that called for immediate action.  The loan allowed them to do this and they could 
access the original capital invested.
Broadly, the product recommended met the recorded aims and objectives of Mr and Mrs W. 
It seems to have been appropriate in terms of the level of risk associated with the investment 
and their attitude to risk. It did enable their investment to grow with the growth not subject to 
inheritance tax.
Mr and Mrs W have said that they did not receive the Suitability Letter and that this letter 
should have been the trigger to invest once they agreed the contents.  A Suitability Letter is 
not intended to be a two-way agreement - sent out and returned, instead it is used to record 
and summarise the essential facts arising from discussions and completed documentation 
such as the CFR.
Mr and Mrs W also complain that they did not get information on charges and were told later 
that any withdrawal or closure charges would come out of the capital and not the growth. 
SJP says that these details were included in Services and Cost Disclosure Documents which 
were provided at the meeting and in the Key Features document that SJP says were left with 
them at the meeting.  I think that on the balance of probability, these types of documents are 
normally discussed during a meeting of this nature and I think its likely Mr and Mrs W 
received them.
In SJPs response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, it says its advisor described Mr W as high 
analytical and that he investigated every aspect of SJP and the subsequent loan plan 
proposal.  Mr W in a submission to this service, said that he held senior appointments 
throughout his career and was well used to expressing himself clearly and unambiguously. In making my decision I have taken into account what Mr W has said in his submission and 
what documentation is available to review, amongst other things. 
I note that in a submission from the original advisor at SJP, he says that the initial talk that 
Mr and Mrs W attended was a seminar covering investments and inheritance tax.  The 
advisor also says that the second half of the seminar covered the loan plan  how it worked, 
the costs and benefits.  Mr and Mrs W say that they attended a talk, so I have to conclude 
that this is the same seminar.
In summary, I think that it is likely that SJP informed Mr and Mrs W of how the loan plan 
would work and what the consequences of it would be. The documentation that I have seen, 
including a document signed by Mr and Mrs W, indicates that the investment will be held in a 
trust and that, apart from the capital loaned, the trust was for the benefit of their children.   I 
think it unlikely they would have committed so much money to this investment with so few 
details about it and the charges associated with it. I think on the balance of probability that 
the suitability letter, key features document and illustration were received by Mr and Mrs W.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed in the decision that I have reached but 
based on the available evidence I dont uphold their complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
The business has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint. Mr W should 
contact SJP directly if he now wishes to accept this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman