DRN-3443275
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC in sending their title deeds 
to their solicitor when they tried to sell the property. Their first sale fell through, and they had 
to accept a lower offer some months later. They ask for compensation. Ms M has dealt with 
the complaint throughout.
What happened
Ms M and Mr M accepted an offer to sell their property in March 2020. Ms M says there was 
no chain and no reason the sale couldnt progress quickly. Their solicitor requested the 
property title deeds from Barclays in March 2020 without a response. Ms M says she tried to 
contact Barclays without success. The purchaser withdrew in early June 2020.
Ms M and Mr M accepted another offer in September 2020, for a lower amount. Ms M says 
she and her solicitor tried to contact Barclays as the title deeds still hadnt received. Ms M 
made a complaint in early November 2020. Barclays sent the deeds to Ms M and Mr Ms 
solicitor on 17 November 2021. The sale completed in March 2021.
In March 2021 Ms M chased Barclays for a response to her complaint. She was told a final 
response letter had been sent in late December 2020. Barclays said it hadnt received a 
request for the title deeds until October 2020. It paid £150 for delays after this and time 
Ms M spent on calls.
Ms M says they had to sell their home of 20 years and family circumstances made moving 
stressful. Barclays delays made this worse. Ms M said they had to accept a lower offer in 
September 2020 which was £5,000 less than they could have sold the property for earlier in 
2020 if Barclays had provided the title deeds.
Our investigator said Barclays didnt receive the solicitors letter posted in March 2020. 
Barclays accepted its service was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, causing difficulty for 
customers trying to contact it. Our investigator said there was no evidence Barclays received 
the request for the title deeds before October 2020. He said £150 was fair, in the 
circumstances.
Ms M didnt agree. She said problems with Barclays service continued beyond the National 
lock down, and Barclays should have been able to answer calls in a timely manner and offer 
assistance to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can understand why Ms M and Mr M found this matter upsetting. They had to sell their 
home. Family circumstances made this particularly difficult, and this was during the Covid-19 
pandemic. Ms M says this was made worse by the sales process taking longer than it ought 
to have, and the offer they accepted in September 2020 was for less than the previous offer.
Ms M provided a copy of a letter from her solicitor to Barclays requesting the title deeds. This 
was dated 19 March 2020. Unfortunately, it seems Barclays didnt receive the letter. Theres 
no evidence that the solicitor tried other means to contact Barclays, or sent a further request 
by post.  
Barclays says it didnt receive a request for the title deeds until October 2020. It provided its 
records for the mortgage account. Ive read these records carefully. I cant see any record of 
Barclays receiving a request for the title deeds before October 2020.
Barclays was in contact with Ms M about the mortgage as its term was due to expire in May 
2020. Ms M had told Barclays they intended to repay the mortgage by selling the property. 
Ms M says one part of Barclays was pressuring her to sell, while another part prevented this.
Barclays has notes of calls with Ms M in April and May 2020. These say that Ms M told 
Barclays the sale of the property was on hold due to Covid. She didnt mention a problem 
with the title deeds.
Ms M says the purchaser pulled out in early June 2020 as they were fed up of waiting for the 
title deeds. The estate agent sent an email supporting this. I dont think though that I can 
hold Barclays responsible for this. It hadnt received a request for the title deeds.
Barclays was also in contact with Ms M after this. Theres no record until October 2020 of 
Ms M asking Barclays to send the deeds to her solicitor. Ms M says she was unable to get in 
contact with the relevant team to ask for the deeds. But if Ms M was in contact with another 
team at Barclays she could have told it that she and the solicitor had been chasing for the 
deeds without success and this had caused the sale to fall through. I dont think Barclays 
knew Ms M and Mr Ms solicitor had sent a written request and was still waiting for the title 
deeds. 
Ms M did raise this with Barclays in October 2020, and Barclays also received a request 
from the solicitor. Barclays told Ms M it would provide the title deeds within five working 
days. It failed to meet this deadline. It sent the deeds to Mr M and Ms Ms solicitor in mid-
November 2020. Its unlikely that this short delay was the only or the main reason the sale 
didnt complete until March 2021  almost four months after the deeds were sent out. But the 
delay must have been worrying for Ms M and Mr M who wouldnt have wanted another sale 
to fall through.
Barclays accepts its service could have been better. This happened during the Covid-19 
pandemic when social distancing guidelines meant people had to work differently. Barclays 
says some of its mortgage team is based overseas where a strict lockdown meant the team 
werent able to work. This affected the service provided by Barclays, such as call wait times 
and response times. 
Im sorry about Ms M and Mr Ms difficult circumstances. Selling their home and moving 
during the Covid-19 pandemic must have been stressful. The difficulty Ms M had contacting 
Barclays during this time would have added to this. I think its right that Barclays paid 
compensation for the additional upset caused by its poor service. Taking all of the 
circumstances into account, I think £150 is fair and reasonable for the additional upset 
caused by Barclays poor service. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
paid by Barclay Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman