DRN-3484526
The complaint
Mr H complained that Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon) failed to make a reasonable 
offer for compensation and to provide sufficient data in relation to an error in the investment 
of his contributions. They also delayed a conversion of his group stakeholder pension to an 
individual policy.
What happened
Mr Hs employer set up a Group Stakeholder pension scheme in 2017 and enrolled him as a 
member. The default fund was Balanced Lifestyle targeting retirement at age 65 which, for 
Mr H, was in January 2018. His investments would gradually switch from ones aiming to 
grow the value of the fund to investments that aimed to preserve the amount of tax free cash 
and annuity income the fund could buy. The plan would be funded by regular employer and 
employee contributions, but the largest contributions were lump sums contributed directly by 
Mr H.
In August 2018, seven months after his default retirement age, Mr H asked to change the 
retirement age to 2023 or his 70th birthday. As they later acknowledged, at this time Aegon 
should have offered Mr H the option to change his investment strategy to match this new 
retirement age, but they did not. 
In September 2020 Mr H was made redundant and his employer contributions ceased. 
Aegon wrote to him to say that if he did nothing his pension would convert to an individual 
one, no longer part of the workplace scheme; that he could continue to make contributions 
himself; and that he also had the option of transferring to a new provider. The same letter 
was sent to him again in December, by which stage the plan was valued at £121,525. No 
fund split was given on either letter. 
On 1 March 2021, in response to a fund switch request from Mr H (from the Retirement Fund 
to the Balanced Lifestyle Fund), Aegon admitted that there had been a mistake in the 
investment of contributions. They explained that they should have offered him the chance to 
change the end date of his lifestyling when he changed his retirement date in 2018, but since 
they did not, contributions had been continually invested in the Retirement fund. 
Aegon apologised and offered to reinstate the policy to how it would have been had this 
error not occurred, and he had changed the retirement date of his investments. They would 
do this by backdating all the transactions using the historical fund price at the time of each 
transaction since August 2018, had they been in the correct funds. Alternatively, he could 
leave the policy as it was and/or change to another fund. 
Mr Hs initial response was that he did not have enough information to be able to decide 
which option to choose. He wanted to know what the value would have been for either 
option. He also stated that he felt the Retirement funds performance to have been poor.
Aegon responded that, under option one, backdating the fund switch would result in his 
policy increasing in value by £7,109. If he selected option two there would be no change to 
the policy or its value. 
Mr H queried the amount. Aegon explained that, since he was already less than five years 
from his retirement age his policy had been lifestyling from inception. They showed how the 
pension would switch from the higher risk, growth phase (Mixed fund) adding gilts so that by 
the year before retirement the fund would have 25% in cash and 75% in the Long Gilt fund. 
Aegon also explained that the £7,109 was not an offer of compensation, but the effect of 
backdating the transactions under the policy. This was the difference between the value his 
fund should have been and the value it was.
Mr H was still unsure about how the figure had been arrived at and provided his own 
calculation of what he thought the value should be, using average fund performance figures 
and other estimates. 
Aegon continued to try and explain to him how the revised policy value was calculated, but 
unfortunately were unable to satisfy him that the figure was accurate. They offered to give 
him a transaction history.
On 16 March the case was referred to Aegons complaints department who issued their 
response on 7 April. As well as fixing the error by correcting all transactions from August 
2018, Aegon offered Mr H £500 to compensate for the trouble and inconvenience he had 
experienced in trying to resolve the issue over those few weeks. 
He did not accept the offer as he felt it was not enough. He also said that he had suffered 
loss as a result of the time taken to convert his group pension to an individual pension. Once 
again he asked for a transaction history and details of how the £7,109 figure had been 
calculated.
Following a further attempt to explain their position, Mr H made a second complaint, that he 
had not been offered adequate compensation, or access to the data behind the calculation, 
and that he had lost out due to the time taken to convert from a group to an individual plan. 
He then brought his dispute to this service.
He said that he had wanted to change his policy to a personal pension, with access to a 
wider fund choice, so he would have made more in investment gains had this happened; as 
a result he wanted more compensation.
Our investigator looked at the case and assessed that, although Aegon had made an error in 
not offering to change funds when he changed retirement date, they had otherwise acted 
fairly in how they offered to put things right. 
Since Mr H did not accept the investigators view, the case was referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Aegon made an error in not offering Mr H the chance to change the 
date of his lifestyling investment approach when he changed his retirement date, so I dont 
see any need to revisit those events in much detail. What I have to decide is whether Aegon 
acted fairly in how they offered to put things right.
Aegon acknowledged quickly that they had made an error, for which they accepted 
responsibility. They immediately offered to reinstate the policy to how it would have been 
had the error not occurred, which meant that Mr H had not suffered any financial loss as a result of the error. Around a month later, in the formal response to Mr Hs complaint and in 
addition to making good any losses, Aegon also offered him £500 for the trouble and 
inconvenience he had experienced in sorting out the issue.
Since Aegon admitted their mistake and offered a full solution quickly, as well as offering a 
fair payment for the inconvenience, I find that overall Aegon acted fairly in dealing with Mr H. 
However, Mr H was not convinced that the amount he was offered (£7,109) was fair or 
accurate. He asked for the formula and/or the data behind the calculation more than once to 
allow him to check the calculation himself. Mr H said that he had a mathematical 
background, and he had also sent Aegon a spreadsheet showing what he thought the policy 
should be worth. His calculation showed a much higher value (c. £140,000 rather than the 
£119,802 provided by Aegon). Accordingly, he thought that he should be offered more 
compensation.
Mr Hs spreadsheet relied on some assumptions which may well have seemed reasonable 
but I think would have led to an inaccurate calculation of the value. This is because his 
calculation ignored the timing of contributions, particularly lump sum contributions. He also 
used a single performance figure for each of 2019 and 2020 which he adjusted down for the 
effects of lifestyling by what seemed to be an arbitrary amount. There was also an 
underlying assumption that the returns were generated evenly across the time period, which 
does not match the reality of how investment markets perform.
For example, Mr H made a lump sum contribution of £20,000 in September 2019, so it would 
be inaccurate to apply an annual rate of return to this portion of the fund as it was only 
invested for three to four months of the year. Also, Mr H assumed a return of 1% for the first 
few months of 2021 when in fact the fund fell in value by 6.5% over this period. 
The Balanced and Retirement funds will both rise and fall in value over the short term, so 
lump sum investments can have a disproportionate effect on the overall policy value over the 
short term, particularly if made in volatile markets. 
So while I can understand how Mr H arrived at his figure, and therefore why he disagreed 
with Aegons revised policy value, I dont think his calculation is accurate enough for the 
reasons given. Aegon has provided a list of fund prices for both the Retirement Fund and the 
Balanced Lifestyle Funds at the relevant times for Mr H and he can access a transaction 
history online. Overall I think Aegon has provided Mr H with a reasonable amount of 
information and I have no reason to believe that the Aegon figure is incorrect as it was 
calculated by their back office system using actual unit prices at the date of each transaction. 
This is a complex process that is not easily replicated to show how it is worked out as Mr H 
would like. 
Mr H also raised the issue of the time taken to convert his group stakeholder pension into an 
individual stakeholder pension. He said that this caused him to lose more money as it 
prevented him from accessing a wider range of investment opportunities.
The individual stakeholder pension scheme was the same pension with the same fund 
choices and charges as the group scheme; the only difference was that he was no longer a 
part of the employers group, and the plan was simply held in his own name. So regardless 
of the time it took to convert from one to the other, there was no material effect on the 
investment opportunities available to Mr H. If he wanted to access a wider range of 
investments he would need to switch to an alternative Aegon pension, or to another provider. 
Mr H has also not been able to provide any evidence of him asking to switch funds other 
than those already discussed, nor have Aegon been able to find any records. So I am afraid 
I am not able to agree with Mr H that there was any further loss as a result of the time taken to convert to an individual stakeholder pension. 
So, in summary, I agree with our investigator. I find that although Aegon made a mistake, 
they acted fairly in offering to reinstate the policy and the offer of £500 for inconvenience 
was at the higher end of what this service would be likely to recommend in similar 
circumstances. I also find that there was no detriment to any delay in converting the pension 
to an Individual Stakeholder pension and that Aegon did in fact offer to provide him with the 
data behind the policy reinstatement.
I understand Mr Hs frustration but hope that I have been able to explain why I believe Aegon 
acted fairly. 
I understand Aegon already reworked the policy in 2021 when they discovered their mistake. 
So Mr Hs current pension value reflects what it would have been if Aegon had adjusted Mr 
Hs policy when he changed his retirement date in 2018. So they dont have to do anything 
further in this regard.
Aegon should pay Mr H the £500 they offered in additional compensation for the 
inconvenience this matter caused if they have not already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons given I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Scottish Equitable plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman