DRN-2478759
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Ltd failed to carry out satisfactory repairs to his car, 
following a road traffic accident (RTA).
What happened
Mr B holds a motor insurance policy with esure. In February 2018 he made a claim following 
a RTA that caused damage to his, and a third partys vehicle. Esure accepted the claim and 
agreed to carry out repairs. But Mr B said they werent completed to a satisfactory standard, 
and his phone charger had gone missing. So he complained. 
Esure agreed the repairs were unsatisfactory  so they paid Mr B £100 in compensation, 
covered the cost of his missing charger, and agreed for the works to be looked at again.
But following the cars return to the garage, while further works were completed, they still 
werent to Mr Bs satisfaction, and he was unhappy with the limited contact hed had from 
esures solicitors dealing with the liability aspect of his claim. So he complained again.
Esure accepted things hadnt gone as well as they could have, and they paid Mr B a further 
£100 in compensation, and asked him to obtain his own quote for any outstanding works. 
(They also paid Mr B a further £100 shortly after this, relating to a complaint he made about 
esures in-house solicitors. But this aspect relates to the liability side of his claim, which I am 
not considering as part of this complaint). Mr B was unable to find anyone to carry out the 
works, so esure suggested some repairers he could use, or they said they could provide a 
cash settlement instead. 
Mr B requested the works were completed, and another repairer was appointed. However, 
the repairer tried to contact Mr B by phone when hed requested email contact. So esure 
(unhappy with the level of service provided) agreed Mr B could take his car to the 
manufacturers garage to obtain his own estimate. 
An estimate from the manufacturer was provided, but it was for £1,500, considerably higher 
than the previous estimates esure had received. Esure felt this was unreasonable, so they 
appointed an independent engineer to carry out a physical inspection, and said that they 
would authorise the repairs if the engineer supported that Mr Bs estimate was reasonable.
But the engineer estimated the cost of the works as £71.52. And while he noted additional 
works were needed on the vehicle, he didnt feel they were related to the initial repairs 
completed, or the accident. And he thought the estimate Mr B had provided was not a true 
reflection of what esure was liable for. So following the estimate provided, in an attempt to 
resolve the claim, esure offered Mr B £100. 
Mr B refused esures offer, so a second repairer was instructed to carry out the works 
needed on his car. But two weeks later, the repairer contacted esure saying they refused to 
carry out the works due to Mr Bs behaviour towards their staff. So a third repairer was 
instructed. However, the third repairer, also told esure theyd no longer deal with the repairs, 
as Mr B had been abusive to their driver, branch receptionist and estimator. Consequently, 
esure said they had no option left other than to settle the matter in cash, and sent Mr B a 
cheque for £171.52. 
The settlement was broken down as £71.52 for the repairs, and a further £100 to cover the 
cost of a wheel arch moulding, in addition to the £300 compensation already paid. But Mr B 
was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and said esure were entitled to settle the claim 
in the way they deemed most suitable. And she thought esure had done more than was 
necessary in agreeing to cover both the cost of repairs, and the cost of the wheel arch 
moulding; as it had been determined both initially, and by the independent engineer, that it 
was not claim related. 
She also thought it reasonable for esure not to pay out on the estimate Mr B had obtained, 
as it was well in excess of what esure could have arranged repairs for. So given that an 
agreement couldnt be reached, she felt the best option was a cash settlement, and the 
£171.52 esure paid Mr B in this respect was reasonable.
Mr B did not accept the investigators findings, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can appreciate that dealing with this matter has been frustrating for Mr B, and things 
have not gone entirely as they should have. 
When Mr Bs vehicle was initially taken into the garage, both esure and Mr B agree works 
werent carried out to a satisfactory standard. But to try and rectify this, esure compensated 
Mr B £100 and agreed for his car repairs to be looked at again. They also paid for his 
missing phone charger. I appreciate it must have been frustrating for the repairs not to have 
been completed fully on the first visit to the garage, but in the circumstances, I think esures 
response was adequate.
When Mr B complained for a second time following the cars return to the garage, he 
remained unhappy with the repairs. And he was unhappy hed received limited contact from 
esures in-house solicitors. As Ive set out above Ive not considered the £100 compensation 
relating to Mr Bs dealing with esures solicitors, as that is not being considered as part of 
this complaint. But esure did pay Mr B a further £100 in compensation at this point to 
recognise the poor service hed received in relation to the ongoing repairs. And they agreed 
for him to obtain his own estimate for works for their consideration.  I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr B is frustrated that having provided his own estimate, esure did not accept it. 
But the quotation he provided was for around £1,500, when esure had previously been 
advised by their engineers, that the cost to complete the necessary works would be in the 
region of £50. Esures policy states that if using a non-recommended repairer  Well only 
pay for reasonable and necessary repairs and we reserve the right to say no to an estimate. 
Given the large discrepancy between the figures, I think its reasonable for esure to rely on 
this policy term in the circumstances. And therefore, I think it was reasonable for them to 
refuse to cash settle or authorise repairs based on this figure.When two parties disagree on the cost of works, it can be useful to obtain an opinion from an 
independent party to help settle matters. And I can see that esure appointed an independent 
engineer to carry out a physical inspection. Esure agreed that if the engineers report 
supported that Mr Bs estimate was reasonable, they would authorise repairs on that basis. 
And I think this was a fair way to approach the matter in the circumstances. 
The engineer appointed provided his report and calculated repair costs at £71.52, 
considerably less than the quote Mr B had provided. So in the same way I would have 
expected esure to pay out a higher amount had the engineers report supported a higher 
cost, equally, I think its reasonable for esure to settle the claim based on the lower figure 
estimated by the same engineer. And given that esures offer of £100 exceeded that 
estimate, I think at this stage, it was a fair offer.
Mr B refused this offer. So esure instructed a second repairer to complete the works. But 
once works were instructed there was a breakdown in communication and the repairer said 
they refused to carry out the works due to Mr Bs behaviour.  
Its unclear exactly what was said between Mr B and the second repairer, and I can 
appreciate that by now, Mr B was frustrated. But equally, it is unusual for a repairer to turn 
down works appointed by an insurer. 
Despite the above breakdown in communication, esure agreed to instruct a third repairer. 
However shortly after taking on the works, this repairer also contacted esure saying that they 
refused to deal with Mr B any longer, due the behaviour he exhibited with their driver, their 
receptionist and their estimator. 
Again, its unclear exactly what happened between Mr B and this repairer. Nonetheless, it 
was the second time an appointed repairer had refused to carry out the work. And given 
esure had now appointed three different repairers to no avail, I think a cash settlement was 
the most appropriate way forward at this time. 
Esures cash settlement paid to Mr B of £171.52 was more than the estimated cost of works 
provided by the engineer. So I think that paying Mr B this amount, in addition to the £300 
already paid in compensation, was a sufficient settlement in the circumstances. So I wont be 
instructing esure to do anything more, and Im not upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman