DRN-3852073
The complaint
A company which Ill call G complains that Santander UK Plc treated them unfairly by 
recalling their Bounce Back Loan.
The complaint is brought on Gs behalf by their director, Mr H. 
What happened
G successfully applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with Santander in June 2020.
 
G told us:
In August 2020, Santander froze their account and recalled the BBL without warning. 
They had self-declared a turnover of £160,000 on the BBL application, but the bank 
said it could only see around £113,000 through the account. So, it froze the account 
and recalled the BBL 
They had explained to Santander that some of their income was received in cash and 
not paid into the account. They also provided supporting documents which showed 
the £160,000 turnover - but the bank wouldnt change its decision. 
The bank repaid the BBL using the money held in Gs business account, which they 
had needed to pay expenses such as rent. 
Santander told us:
Gs account had been frozen and the BBL recalled in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
Gs BBL application had been reviewed by its fraud team and as the turnover through 
the business account was around £113,000 not £160,000, it didnt think G was 
eligible for the amount they applied for under BBL Scheme. 
It could undertake checks on an BBL application at any point during the loan term. 
It had asked G for supporting documentation, but the company hadnt provided this 
within the deadline given. The information G had subsequently supplied was 
reviewed by the appeals team but wasnt sufficient to overturn the original decision to 
recall the BBL. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Santander had 
been entitled to undertake checks throughout the term of the loan. She thought that the 
conclusion of its checks on Gs application led it to reasonably decide there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to support the higher turnover that G had declared, and on that basis to terminate 
and recall the BBL in line with the terms and conditions.
G didnt agree. They said theyd provided their submitted HMRC tax return and accounts for 
the required period, both of which showed a turnover of £160,000 and included the cash 
they received, which didnt go through the account. They also said they couldnt provide the 
VAT returns as requested by the bank because they were VAT exempt. So they asked that 
an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Under the rules of the BBL Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to 25% of their annual 
turnover from a minimum of £2,000 to a maximum of £50,000. The applications were self-
declared by the borrower so the lender could rely on this information when granting the loan. 
As a bank, Santander has certain legal and regulatory obligations that it needs to comply 
with. The bank also has certain obligations under the BBL Scheme. Santander is able to use 
its commercial discretion in deciding how it will meet these obligations, what checks it will 
undertake and when these checks will be. 
In this case, Santander reviewed Gs BBL application and undertook checks on the 
companys account with the bank to verify the £160,000 turnover figure that G declared in 
order to qualify for the loan of £40,000 that they obtained. 
Santander wasnt satisfied that the turnover figure that G had self-declared was correct, 
which ultimately led the bank to terminate and recall the BBL. I think this was reasonable as:
Gs bank statements only showed turnover through the account of around £113,000. 
The bank therefore thought G should only have been eligible for a loan of around 
£28,250. 
The bank asked G to provide evidence to support the turnover they had declared, 
however the accounts provided didnt show this level of turnover either. 
G explained that a significant portion of their income and transactions were made in 
cash, so they were asked to provide evidence of the cash transactions on 7 August 
and 12 August.
On 12 August, Mr H called Santander and said that Gs actual turnover for the 
2018/19 tax year was £80,000 but as it was a new business, hed declared an 
estimated turnover on the BBL application. 
Santander requested supporting evidence again on 7 September, but this wasnt 
received. 
In early September, G said they couldnt provide the documents the bank had 
requested so there was no evidence to support the £47,000 difference in their 
turnover.
While G says that they did provide additional supporting evidence to Santander to 
support their declared turnover, this was at the end of October and November - a 
significant time after the deadlines given by the bank had passed. Ive also seen that 
when G provided the supporting information, they didnt provide all the evidence 
requested by Santander, only part of it. 
The terms of the BBL agreement say that an event of default would occur if any information 
in the loan application was found to be misleading, incomplete, or incorrect in anyway. As 
Santander thought that G had provided incorrect information, the BBL agreement terms 
allowed the bank to cancel the loan with immediate effect and recall the outstanding balance 
immediately. However, I can see that Santander didnt do this, and instead requested further 
information on several occasions from G to support its declared turnover. I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances here.After the complaint had been referred for an ombudsmans decision, our investigator asked 
G to provide evidence of their cash transactions and turnover of £160,000. G supplied 
copies of printed cash receipts, an HMRC self-assessment and accounts. We asked 
Santander to review their decision again based on the additional supporting information G 
had provided to see if it would reinstate the BBL. 
However, the bank still didnt think that the evidence provided by the company was sufficient. 
Santander has provided us with an explanation and information on which its decision was 
based, and having reviewed this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to take this 
action. I am sorry that Im unable to share more information with G about Santanders 
decision but given all the information available I dont think I can ask the bank to reverse its 
decision. 
G said it was unfair for Santander to be able freeze their account and offset the credit 
balance against their loan. However, the BBL agreement says that Santander can use any 
money held within its banking group to reduce or repay any amount which had become 
immediately repayable. And as the account with the credit balance and the BBL were both in 
Gs name, the bank didnt do anything wrong in using the available funds to reduce the 
outstanding balance. 
Santanders account terms say that the bank can, in certain circumstances, withdraw any 
service or close an account either by giving two months notice, or with immediate effect and 
without notice, if it reasonably believes it has cause to do so. The account terms then give 
various examples for when the bank may choose to use these options.    
Santander has provided us with the information on which its decision to restrict, and then 
close Gs account was based. And having reviewed this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable 
for the bank to take this action in line with the account terms and conditions. 
I recognise that G will be disappointed with my decision. But based on everything Ive seen I 
dont think Santander did anything wrong in reviewing Gs BBL application, cancelling it and 
then closing the companys bank account when the bank didnt receive the information it had 
requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman