DRN-2304462
The complaint
Mrs C complains about a decision by UK Insurance Ltd (T/A Direct Line) to avoid her 
landlords insurance policy and decline her claim by following an escape of water.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 8 February 2021  a copy of which is set out here. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs C owns a tenanted property, which she purchased in January 2019. On 28 May 2019, 
she signed a tenancy agreement with a family who wanted to rent her property. They moved 
into her rental property on 12 June 2019.
On 24 July 2019, Mrs C took out a landlords insurance policy with Direct Line. On 14 August 
2019, she contacted Direct Line as her tenants had reported an escape of water from the 
upstairs bathroom, which was causing water to come through the kitchen ceiling. Mrs C said 
she thought water might be leaking from a pipe in the bathroom.
Direct Line advised Mrs C to instruct a plumber to attend her rental property in order to 
confirm the cause of the escape of water. On 22 August 2019, Mrs C contacted Direct Line 
to explain that her plumber had confirmed water had been seeping through tiles in the 
bathroom due to gaps in the tile grouting. She said this had caused mould to appear in the 
bathroom and kitchen and an escape of water through the kitchen ceiling.
Direct Line told Mrs C to instruct her tenants to stop using the shower and bath in order to 
avoid the damage worsening. It also appointed an agent (W) to attend Mrs Cs rental 
property to take photographs and a video of the damage on 28 August 2019.
Mrs C said that, on 9 September 2019, Direct Line verbally confirmed it was approving her 
claim. So, she sent it a copy of the invoice shed received for the bathroom reinstatement 
works. And she asked Direct Line to pay that invoice in line with the terms of her policy. But
she said she heard nothing further afterwards.
When Mrs C contacted Direct Line to chase up the progress of her claim, she was informed 
that her claim had been repudiated. Direct Line told her this was because it believed the 
damage had occurred prior to the inception of her policy.
Mrs C was unhappy with Direct Lines decision to decline her claim. She said the mould had 
appeared since the date shed reported her claim. And she disputed that the damage pre- 
dated the inception of her policy. She said it hadnt been present when she purchased the 
rental property. And she complained to Direct Line about how it had dealt with her claim.
When Direct Line investigated Mrs Cs concerns, it didnt uphold her complaint. It said the 
extent of the damage reported must have pre-dated the inception of Mrs Cs policy. And it 
explained that it had seen photographs of Mrs Cs rental property from 2017 on a property 
website, which showed the grouting had been in poor condition at that time. Direct Line 
therefore maintained its decision to repudiate Mrs Cs claim. And it informed her it would be 
avoiding her policy from its inception date on the basis that shed made a fraudulent 
misrepresentation about when the damage had taken place.
Being dissatisfied with Direct Lines response to her complaint, Mrs C referred it to our 
service. But our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They were 
persuaded that the damage had occurred prior to Mrs C incepting her policy. And they didnt 
think Direct Line had acted unfairly in avoiding her policy. So, they didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. But Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view of her complaint and asked 
an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs C and Direct Line have 
gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed submissions. I want to 
assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont 
address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to the complaint.
Our investigators view of this complaint didnt comment on whether Direct Line had acted 
fairly in avoiding Mrs Cs policy. It also didnt address whether Mrs C had misrepresented 
information to Direct Line and, if so, on what basis. Im therefore drafting a provisional 
decision to address these issues and explain what I think is the fairest way to resolve this 
complaint. This will enable Mrs C and Direct Line to respond with their thoughts.
Id like to say at the outset that Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs C. I realise this 
has had a big impact on her. And I can appreciate how distressing it must have been for 
Direct Line to avoid her policy and decline to settle her claim. Ive carefully considered what 
happened and whether Direct Line made an error it needs to put right.
In reaching a decision about this complaint Ive assessed what Mrs C and Direct Line have 
said about this claim and Ive listened to all the telephone recordings our service was 
provided. Ive also reviewed the photographs and video footage taken of Mrs Cs bathroom 
and kitchen. And Ive seen a photograph of Mrs Cs bathroom from 2017, which has been 
obtained from a property marketing website.
Theres no dispute that extensive water and mould damage occurred to Mrs Cs rental 
property. However, theres a disagreement between her, Direct Line and its appointed agent 
about when the damage took place and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mrs Cs landlord insurance policy with Direct Line provides cover for damage caused by a 
range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include an escape 
of water, for example.
Here, its clear an escape of water caused the damage Mrs C reported to Direct Line. And, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied a lack of grouting between a number of 
bathroom tiles caused water to penetrate the tiles gradually over a period of time. This is 
what I think, most likely, caused the mould and water damage within bathroom and kitchen 
of Mrs Cs rental property.As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mrs C took out her policy with Direct Line on 
24 July 2019. For a claim to succeed, the date of the event must be on or after the policy 
inception date. Here, the date of the event is the date of the escape of water.
I can see Mrs C reported the damage her rental property sustained to Direct Line on 14 
August 2019. W attended, on behalf of Direct Line, in order to obtain visual evidence of the 
damage two weeks later. This was five weeks after Mrs C had contacted Direct Line to make 
a claim.
From the visual evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded the damage Ive seen has occurred 
within a short period of time. Mrs C has told our service she believes the mould has 
developed quickly following the escape of water. But the photographs and video footage our 
service has been provided with show extensive water and mould damage in the bathroom 
and kitchen. I think this damage built up gradually over a period of time. And, like our 
investigator, I dont think the damage happened since 14 August 2019.
Ive had sight of a photograph Direct Line found of Mrs Cs bathroom, which is dated July 
2017. This photograph was obtained from a property marketing website and it shows theres 
grout missing between a large number of bathroom tiles. So, even in July 2017, the grouting 
was inadequate and in poor condition.
Mrs C doesnt accept the comments Direct Line has made about her bathroom grouting 
being in poor condition prior to the inception of her policy. But she hasnt been able to 
provide photographs, either from when her property was purchased or marketed to tenants, 
showing the condition of the bathroom. And I can see she told Direct Line she hadnt had the 
tiles re-grouted since she purchased her rental property.
Having carefully considered the 2017 photograph, I can see that the position of the grouting 
gaps is consistent with what is shown in the photographs W took of Mrs Cs bathroom in 
August 2019. Im therefore satisfied the grouting issues that caused the damage here were 
present in 2017, which was two years prior to Mrs C taking out her policy.
Ive also seen evidence that Direct Line spoke with the plumber that provided a quote to Mrs 
C for the reinstatement works. They informed Direct Line that they thought the mould and 
water damage had been ongoing for some time. And they provided photographs theyd 
taken, which show significant mould within Mrs Cs rental property. These photographs are 
dated prior to 14 August 2019.
In the overall circumstances, I think Direct Line has shown our service reliable evidence to 
demonstrate that the problem with the grouting has been present for some time. And Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably in concluding that the damage Mrs C reported occurred prior to 
the inception of her policy. I therefore cant fairly tell it to cover the claim Mrs C made.
Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think Direct Line acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding 
Mrs Cs policy on the basis of misrepresentation.
Direct Line believes Mrs C deliberately provided it with false information about when the 
damage she reported took place. And its on this basis that its avoided her policy.
Where a policyholder is alleged to have made a misrepresentation, our service considers the 
appropriate legislation including The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA).CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care and, if they did, the options available to the insurer. The considerations 
include whether:
1. the consumer took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
2. the information was important to the insurer and, if it had been given, would affect 
whether a policy was offered or its terms, known as a qualifying misrepresentation.
If the policyholder made a qualifying misrepresentation without taking reasonable care then 
we consider whether they did so deliberately or recklessly, or carelessly.
Ill address each of these considerations in turn.
Did Mrs C take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out.
In this case Ive seen evidence that satisfies me that, prior to taking out her policy, Mrs C 
was asked to agree to a statement of fact, which said:
your property(ies) do not require any repair or refurbishment to make them secure or water 
tight and will be so maintained.
I think this statement of fact was clear. I say this because there can be no misunderstanding 
of what its asking a policyholder to agree with. And Im satisfied the question placed the 
onus on Mrs C to take reasonable care in answering it not to make a misrepresentation.
Prior to incepting her policy with Direct Line, Mrs C didnt provide information about the 
problems with the bathroom grouting. I appreciate she may have thought information about 
the condition of her grouting was unremarkable. But grouting problems can prevent a 
bathroom being water tight and cause an escape of water  as happened here.
The condition of the grouting was relevant to the statement of fact Direct Line was asking 
Mrs C to agree to. Insurers price their policies on the basis of the level of risk present  so 
not declaring this information impacted on that risk, whether the policy was offered to Mrs C 
and the price of the policy she was taking out. 
Having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Direct Line to 
conclude Mrs C should have disclosed information about the condition of the grouting when 
answering the statement of fact Ive set out above. And, I think it would have been clear to 
Mrs C that she needed to disclose any issues affecting grouting at her rental property.
In the overall circumstances, I think Mrs C failed to take reasonable care in confirming 
whether the statement of fact was correct So, Ill turn now to whether the misrepresentation 
was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Did Mrs C make a qualifying misrepresentation?
Direct Line has shown our service underwriting criteria that which satisfies me that, had it 
been aware that Mrs Cs rental property had defective grouting that needed replacing, it would have charged a higher policy premium and requested information about when the 
repairs were due to take place. It said if Mrs C had said she wasnt going to repair the 
grouting within a suitable time frame it may have refused to insure her. It said it would also 
have requested information about Mrs Cs past claim history. And it said that any past 
escape of water claims would make it less likely to offer insurance here.
Having taken all of Direct Lines comments into account, Im satisfied that the condition of 
Mrs Cs grouting information that was important for it to be able to decide whether it would 
have offered to insure her property or whether it would have made changes to the policy that 
was offered to her. Im therefore satisfied Mrs Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless?
Direct Line has treated Mrs Cs misrepresentation as reckless. But I think that was unfair. I 
say this because I dont think Mrs C deliberately gave Direct Line the wrong information.
Instead, the evidence Ive seen, persuades me that she carelessly misrepresented the 
condition of her bathroom. So, I think her misrepresentation should be treated as careless.
Ive looked at the actions Direct Line can take in accordance with CIDRA in cases involving a 
careless misrepresentation. In these circumstances, the law allows Direct Line to avoid Mrs 
Cs policy from the misrepresentation, when she incepted her policy, and not deal with any 
claims. It must then return any unused premiums a consumer has paid.
Here, I understand that when Direct Line took the decision to avoid Mrs Cs policy it decided 
to do so from the policy inception date. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C  I can well understand 
shes upset about what has happened. But Direct Line is entitled to decide who it does or 
doesnt wish to insure. And, as this is a commercial decision, its not one our service can 
interfere with.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Direct Lines decision to avoid 
Mrs Cs policy was reached reasonably and in line with CIDRA. This means, in effect, her 
policy never existed and Direct Line doesnt have to deal with her claim.
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Direct Line to rely on it to avoid Mrs Cs policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. Im therefore not intending to tell Direct Line to reinstate Mrs Cs 
policy or deal with her claim. However, its unclear whether Direct Line refunded any unused 
premiums Mrs C had paid. In line with CIDRA, if it hasnt already done so, it should do so 
without further delay.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last 
word on the matter.
Both Direct Line and Mrs C acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and 
confirmed they had no additional information they wished me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. I remain persuaded that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld.As I said in my provisional decision Im not going to tell Direct Line to reinstate Mrs Cs policy 
or deal with her claim. But, if Direct Line hasnt already refunded any unused premiums Mrs 
C had paid, it should do so without further delay in accordance with CIDRA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman