DRN-4082120
The complaint
Ms G complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) provided poor service 
and continually harassed her about making payments to her credit card account, even 
though a payment plan was in place.
What happened
Ms G says following a telephone discussion with a member of John Lewiss financial support 
team in November 2022, it was agreed she could set up a payment plan and as a result she 
would get no further charges, telephone calls, or contact from them regarding her 
outstanding credit card account. Ms G says she was undergoing hospital treatment at this 
time and advised John Lewis of this, but it still continued to call her and had ignored what it 
had previously agreed to. Ms G says John Lewis have provided misinformation to her on 
various occasions, including incorrect telephone numbers for her to call and it has acted 
unprofessionally, and its actions are making her unwell. 
Ms G wants John Lewis to stop harassing her, suspend any fees on the credit card account 
and accept the level of payments she has offered and in addition for it to compensate her for 
the trouble and upset this has caused her. 
John Lewis says no payment plan was agreed with Ms G as her income and expenditure 
profile showed a negative position. John Lewis says as a result, even though Ms G had 
offered £25 per month, this would need to be discussed with its financial support team as it 
couldnt set up a payment plan without a net disposable income to make the payment, but to 
date that hadnt proved possible. John Lewis says Ms Gs credit card account is now in its 
collections department and it suggests she calls them to make arrangements to prevent calls 
being made and arrears accumulating. 
Ms G wasnt happy with John Lewiss response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says John Lewis only agreed to a temporary hold on the account to allow time 
for Ms G to complete an income and expenditure profile and then for her to contact them 
once this was completed. The investigator says no payment plan had been agreed by John 
Lewis as Ms G had a negative net disposable income position and it hadnt been able to 
discuss a formal payment plan with her, despite its attempts to contact Ms G.
The investigator felt John Lewis had acted in line with its policies and followed its processes 
correctly and had attempted to contact Ms G in an effort to prevent a default on her account. 
The investigator felt Ms G should now contact John Lewiss financial support team.
Ms G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I was sorry to learn of Ms Gs health issues and this coupled with her financial problems 
must have been a difficult time for her. When looking at this complaint I will consider if John 
Lewis acted unfairly when it attempted to contact Ms G regarding her credit card account 
debt and whether it could have done more to support her here. 
Ms G and John Lewis have provided this service with comprehensive information and call 
recordings regarding this complaint. While that has proved helpful in considering this 
complaint, I wont be commenting on every piece of information received as I dont feel its 
necessary to come to a full and impartial decision here, thats not to say I havent considered 
everything  I have. 
Ms Gs complaint centres around the fact John Lewis continued to harass her regarding her 
outstanding credit card debt, even though she had set up a payment plan to deal with this 
and it had agreed it wouldnt make further contact with her over this matter. Ms G says she 
has been suffering with a medical condition and John Lewiss actions over this matter and 
the misinformation and problems it caused, has made her unwell. 
While I understand the points Ms G makes here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this because even though Ms G may not agree, from the information I have seen, there 
wasnt any formal payment plan agreed by John Lewis nor had it agreed not to contact her 
going forward, apart from a seven-day hold period it agreed to, in mid-November 2022. I 
have listened to a number of telephone call recordings, but the key telephone call was made 
in mid -November 2022. During this call, Ms G discussed her credit card account with an 
agent, where it was established she had missed a minimum monthly payment to her account 
 this followed on from a call a few days earlier when she wasnt clear why the payment 
hadnt been made. 
During the telephone call in mid-November 2022, Ms G, while mentioning John Lewis had 
stopped providing credit card facilities to many of its customers which she wasnt happy with, 
went on to explain she was subject to a fraud scam on her bank account and as a result had 
cancelled all her direct debits. Ms G said that she wanted to set up a payment plan and the 
agent at John Lewis explained that he would need to go through an income and expenditure 
(I&E) profile with her. Ms G said she didnt have the details available to do that, so could the 
I&E profile be posted to her, and after referring this the agent agreed to do so. 
What is important here and perhaps where any confusion may lie, is the agent made clear to 
Ms G she would need to complete the I&E profile and for Ms G to ring them in seven days, 
taking into account the fact Ms G was visiting hospital. In addition, the agent confirmed a 
seven-day hold would be placed on the account meaning she wouldnt receive any calls 
during this time and interest and charges would be suspended for the duration of the hold 
period and agreed to refund a £12 late payment fee. During the call, the agent also 
explained any arrears would be reported to the relevant credit agencies. Its worth saying not 
only did Ms G confirm she understood what she had been told, she expressly asked if she 
had to make contact again with John Lewis after she had completed the I&E profile and the 
agent confirmed she did  to which she agreed to. 
What happened next was Ms G returned the I&E profile with a note saying she had set up a 
standing order for £25 per month  this seemed to be followed up with a call from Ms G to 
John Lewis in late November 2022 when she made enquiries about how to set up the 
standing order as she was experiencing difficulties doing so online. In that call the agent provided the details needed to set up a standing order and agreed to make a note on file that 
this had been done. From the information I have seen, in any event, theres no evidence to 
show this standing order was set in place. 
There are other calls Ms G makes post this period, and one was to the wrong department as 
John Lewis had provided an incorrect telephone number on one of its letters, that said Ms G 
had made contact before and post this to the correct department, so I cant say this alone 
would have been reason enough for her not to engage with them. Other calls are generally 
Ms G complaining about being called by John Lewis and venting her frustration over this, 
without the agents being able to meaningfully engage with her. 
So, taking all this into account Im satisfied John Lewis did make clear to Ms G she needed 
to engage with them over any payment plan, but that never happened here, and I cant hold 
it responsible for that. Its also fair to say when John Lewis learned Ms Gs income didnt 
meet her expenditure, it wouldnt be able to agree the payment plan she wanted to put in 
place  its worth saying Ms G had also said she was behind with priority bills and had a 
payment plan with another credit card provider. 
So, although Ms G feels John Lewis agreed not to make contact or phone her regarding her 
credit card account, from the information I have seen that was only for the seven-day period 
it agreed to in mid-November, not as an ongoing arrangement. While Ms G may disagree, 
the fact she informed John Lewis she had set up a standing order for £25 per month by 
annotating this on an I&E profile, that isnt to say it had to agree to that arrangement and I 
would not expect that to happen without a full discussion over her financial situation, given 
her negative net income position. Theres no evidence Ms G attempted to call John Lewis to 
discuss her full financial position as it had asked, so I cant say it has acted unfairly taking 
the action it has here. 
While I understand Ms G has gone through a difficult time and I can sympathise with that, I 
am satisfied John Lewis made attempts to support Ms G and its now important she contacts 
them so it can more fully understand her financial position. With that in mind I wont be 
asking anymore of John Lewis here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman