DRN-4026926
The complaint
Mr W complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund a payment he lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mr W received a message from a delivery company and entered his card details to make a 
payment. Soon after this, he received a call from someone claiming to be from the Revolut 
team but was actually a scammer. They had spoofed the Revolut phone number, so Mr W 
believed he was genuinely speaking with someone from Revolut. The scammer read out the 
attempted transaction and claimed to stop it and block Mr Ws card. 
One week later, he received another call from the scammer who said his account was at risk 
and he had to switch to a new account. The scammer was also able to spoof another banks 
number who he held an account with which made it more believable to Mr W. He therefore 
sent £40 followed by £3,140.11 on 18 September 2022, to an account he thought was in his 
name.  When he became aware that this was a scam the following day, he reported the 
fraud to Revolut.
Revolut issued a final response letter in which they explained they would not be refunding  
Mr W the £3,180.11. They said they would have provided a warning if the name Mr W input 
as the beneficiary did not match the name on the intended account. They also said that they 
did stop this payment initially and asked what the purpose of the transactions was. As Mr W 
selected goods and services as the reason, Revolut released the payment and processed it 
in line with his instruction. And they said they had tried to recover the funds once Mr W made 
them aware of the fraud. However, none remained in the beneficiary account. 
Mr W referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They explained 
that the transfers do not fall within the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code, which provides additional protection to victims of scams. However, Revolut 
still has a duty of care to protect its customers from fraud. Despite this, the Investigator did 
not feel the payments in question were enough of a risk to warrant further intervention by 
Revolut, and that they attempted to recover the funds in a timely manner once they were 
made aware of the scam. So, they did not agree Revolut needed to refund Mr W.
Mr W disagreed with the findings. He felt that Revolut had not adequately followed the CRM 
code and had only provided generic warnings. He also did not agree that he received a 
warning about the name on the beneficiary bank not matching the one he entered for the 
transaction. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reiterate that these transactions do not fall under the CRM code as 
Revolut has not signed up to be a part of this voluntary code. So Mr Ws case does not fall 
under the same level of protection as one under the CRM would. However, as explained 
above, Revolut does still have a basic duty of care to its customers.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr W authorised the payments totalling £3,180.11 as he believed 
he was transferring them to an account in his name. So, while I recognise that Mr W didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged 
to follow his instruction and process the payments. Because of this, Mr W is not 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Mr Ws account safe.
Ive firstly considered the transactions in comparison to Mr Ws normal account activity, to 
see if they were out of character for him. While the larger payment of £3,140.11 is of a 
higher value than most of Mr Ws regular transactions, I can see there was another payment 
of £2,526.83 from the account just the month before, so I dont think the amount was 
significantly unusual compared to his genuine account activity. And I dont think it was so 
high to have warranted intervention for that reason alone. In addition, there was still a small 
balance remaining in the account, meaning the entire balance had not been cleared to nil, 
which is a sign of these kind of scams. With this in mind, I dont think the payment itself was 
so unusual to have warranted prior intervention by Revolut, so I dont think it missed an 
opportunity to reveal the scam. 
Revolut has said that the payment for £3,140.11 was picked up for an additional check and 
they asked Mr W what it was for before releasing it. Mr W selected goods and services, as 
he did not think it would matter what reason he selected. Because of this, I dont think 
Revolut missed an opportunity to give a more tailored scam warning, which would have 
happened had Mr W selected the option related to a safe account. As explained above, I 
dont think Revolut needed to carry out additional checks as I do not consider the 
transactions to be sufficiently suspicious compared to the normal account activity.
I note Mr W has said he did not receive a warning that the name he input on the payment did 
not match the name on the account. Revolut does not have evidence of this, though it has 
confirmed a warning would have appeared if the name didnt match. So, it isnt possible for 
me to know if the warning appeared or if Revolut made an error here. In any event, as 
previously set out, I dont think Revolut needed to carry out additional checks and a name 
not matching would not necessarily change this.
Ive finally considered whether or not Revolut tried to recover the funds in a reasonable 
timeframe. Mr W made the payments in the evening on 18 September 2022 and made Revolut aware of these the following day. I can see Revolut requested a recall of the funds 
within 24 hours, however, it was confirmed no funds remained. Unfortunately, it is very 
common for funds to be removed from the beneficiary account almost immediately after they 
are credited. So, I dont think Revolut could have reasonably recovered the funds once they 
were aware of the scam.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman