DRN-2519983
The complaint
Ms F and Mr P complain that NRAM Limited wrongly recorded missed payments on their 
credit files. They that it corrects their credit files and pays compensation. 
What happened
Ms F and Mr P had a mortgage with NRAM. They were in financial difficulties and entered 
into a debt management plan. Payments were made through a debt manager. Ms F and 
Mr P say NRAM recorded information on their credit files that suggested theyd missed 
payments in January 2015 and November and December 2016. They say this is incorrect 
and has affected them getting credit. The loan was repaid in 2017. Ms F and Mr P have 
separated.
NRAM said it reports to three credit reference agencies (CRA). It said it doesnt report 
missed payments: it reports arrears and if an arrangement or debt management plan is in 
place. It said it didnt properly report information to one CRA in January 2015: it reported the 
account was in arrears, but not that there was a debt management plan in place. It said it 
would correct this. Otherwise, it said it had reported the same information to all three CRAs, 
and how this appears on their systems is outside its control. It said one of the CRAs doesnt 
have a marker for accounts in debt management. 
Our investigator contacted the CRA, which confirmed it can flag that an account is in a debt 
management plan. It explained how NRAM could do this. The investigator said NRAM 
should correct the information it reported to the CRA and pay compensation of £75. 
NRAM didnt agree, saying as the loan had been repaid it wasnt able to correct the 
information it had reported in 2016. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F and Mr P made payments in accordance with a debt management plan. NRAM 
reported information to the CRAs, including that the account was in arrears and that there 
was an arrangement or debt management plan in place. 
However, the information which appeared on Ms F and Mr Ps files with one of the CRAs 
didnt show there was a debt management plan in place in November and December 2016. 
It only showed the account was in arrears.
NRAM had said this was because that CRO didnt have a facility to report a debt 
management plan. The credit reference agency confirmed this is possible, and NRAM 
needed to use a different code when it reported information about the account. I think NRAM 
likely made an error when it didnt do this. This means the information on Ms F and Mr Ps 
account isnt accurate and complete. NRAM needs to put this right. 
NRAM says its unable to report the debt management plan now as the loan has been repaid 
and it doesnt have access to archived accounts. It said it could provide a letter to Ms F and 
Mr P saying they were in a debt management plan at that time, which they can use to help 
them sort out the incorrect information on their credit files. 
I dont think this is fair. NRAM made an error and, in fairness, it should take responsibility for 
putting it right. As the information was provided by NRAM its likely the CRA cant amend it 
without consent from NRAM, or might be reluctant to do so. 
NRAM says it can provide a letter to Mr P and Ms F. I think it should do this, as this might be 
useful for Mr P and Ms F. However, if NRAM can write to Mr P and Ms F I cant see why it 
cant write to or otherwise contact the CRA. The CRA has explained how NRAM can update 
the information on Mr P and Ms Fs credit files. If NRAM cant now access Ms F and Mr Ps 
account to do this it will need to find another way to correct the information  working with 
the CRA to find a solution. 
Putting things right
NRAM should now contact the CRA and agree a way to update Ms F and Mr Ps credit files 
to show that their account was in a debt management plan in November and December 
2016. It should contact the CRA within 14 days of Ms F and Mr P accepting my decision (if 
they do) to start this process and use reasonable efforts to ensure their credit files are 
corrected within 60 days after that. 
NRAM should write to Mr P and to Ms F stating that they were in a debt management plan at 
that time. 
I also think NRAM should pay compensation to Ms F and Mr P. The investigator 
recommended £75. I think NRAM should pay £75 to Ms F and £75 to Mr P for the upset and 
trouble this has caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order NRAM Limited to take the steps and make 
the payments set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman