DRN-4428519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about a mortgage they previously held with The Mortgage 
Business Plc (TMB). Theyre unhappy about the rate of interest they were charged.
Mr and Mrs J have been represented in bringing this complaint. Any reference in this 
decision to Mr and Mrs J should be taken to mean their representative acting on their behalf 
where appropriate.
What happened
This mortgage was taken out in February 2006 through a mortgage broker. The mortgage 
offer dated 3 January 2006 indicates Mr and Mrs J were borrowing £1.4m (plus fees) over a 
term of 20 years on an interest only basis. The product was 0.99% above Bank of England 
base rate (BoEBR) for the life of the mortgage. That gave an interest rate (at the time of the 
mortgage offer) of 5.49% variable.
In May 2007 Mr and Mrs Js mortgage broker advised them to move their mortgage onto a 
new product. A mortgage offer was issued for the new rate which explained it was a fixed 
rate of 5.99% until 30 June 2009. After which the mortgage would revert to TMBs standard 
variable rate (SVR) which at the time of the offer was 7.59%.
On 1 July 2009 the mortgage reverted to the SVR in line with the May 2007 mortgage offer, 
and it remained on the SVR until the mortgage was redeemed in September 2017 when 
Mr and Mrs J remortgaged to another lender within TMBs wider banking group.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs J raised a complaint with TMB that was later referred to our service. My 
Ombudsman colleague that decided the complaint summarised it as:
[Mr and Mrs J] complain that The Mortgage Business plc recorded incorrect information on 
their credit files. They want the business to amend their credit files, refund or adjustment 
[sic] interest and pay reasonable compensation for distress and damage to their credit 
rating.
To resolve that she told TMB to:
1. Remove all adverse information relating to this matter from [Mr and Mrs Js] credit 
files and confirm to them that it has done so.
2. Refund all arrears fees and adjust interest accordingly.
3. Pay to [Mr and Mrs J] £900.
But she said there was insufficient evidence that the credit file reporting was the only barrier 
to Mr and Mrs J obtaining a remortgage so she didnt uphold that point:
I note all that [Mr and Mrs J] and their broker say about the re-mortgage. However, there is 
insufficient evidence to enable me to safely conclude that [Mr and Mrs J] would have 
successfully completed a re-mortgage at the rate to which they refer if their credit files had 
not contained the disputed information. There are multiple factors in determining whether a 
mortgage application is successful and several points at which an application may fail, 
particularly here, given the amount and type of borrowing. On balance, I am not satisfied 
that [Mr and Mrs J] have shown they have incurred a financial loss.
A further complaint was raised with TMB after the mortgage was redeemed, and that was 
also referred to our service. An Ombudsman colleague summarised that complaint as: 
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs J used to hold with The Mortgage 
Business Plc (TMB). They re-mortgaged in 2017 to another lender within the same 
business group, on a lower rate. Mr and Mrs J believe TMB should have helped them do 
this much earlier, arguably in 2013. Theyre looking for redress in excess of £170,000, to 
compensate them for the extra interest theyve paid since 2013.
The Ombudsman didnt uphold the complaint. He said he wouldnt consider the credit file 
impact again because that had been decided by a fellow Ombudsman. And in respect of 
Mr and Mrs J getting a new rate within TMBs wider banking group:
The way in which closed lenders are expected to help their customers has evolved 
substantially over time, as the regulator of mortgage business has introduced new rules 
aimed at reducing the number of borrowers trapped on an uncompetitive rate.
Its those new rules that allowed TMB to help Mr and Mrs J move lenders in 2017. The 
same duty and expectation hadnt existed in 2013. Assessed against the requirements of 
the time, TMBs response in 2013 wasnt unfair or unreasonable.
The complaint Im looking at here was raised with TMB on 7 September 2021. Whilst initially 
the complaint encompassed other issues, it was later narrowed down to only relating to the 
rate of interest charged by TMB because the other issues (such as the credit file reporting) 
had previously been decided by our service.
The complaint was looked at by one of our Investigators. He said that Mr and Mrs J had 
complained too late about the interest they had been charged before 7 September 2015, 
although he said he would take account of earlier interest rate changes as part of the overall 
circumstances of the complaint. He then considered the complaint about the interest rate 
since that date and didnt uphold it.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our Investigators findings and so the case was passed to me 
to decide.
In October 2023 I issued a decision about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. In that I 
said our service only has the power to consider this complaint in respect of the interest rate 
charged since 7 September 2015.
I now issue this decision as the final stage of our process.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs J. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
In the original letter of complaint Mr and Mrs Js representative raised various individual 
complaint points. However, in an email to our service in May 2022 the representative said:
It is correct that our client has previously complained to the FOS in respect of his TMB 
mortgage. However, the decision issued in 2019, which you refer to below, was in respect 
of a complaint that TMB failed over a number of years to advise our client of his options 
with regards to a remortgage and that their failure to do so led to our client paying more 
interest that he might otherwise have done had he re-mortgaged onto a new fixed rate 
product earlier (i.e. earlier than 2017 which was when our client re-mortgaged away from 
TMB to Halifax on a lower rate). This complaint however is concerned with the level at 
which the interest rate applicable to our client's mortgage was set whilst it was with TMB, in 
particular the complaint is concerned with a breach of contract, and regulatory obligations 
regarding the fairness of the rate. It is not therefore in any way related to TMB's alleged 
failure to assist our client to re-mortgage within the group.
And;
Finally, we note that paragraph 20 of our clients complaint refers to incorrect recording of 
arrears information on our clients account. We note that this was the subject of a 2015 
investigation by your service, and we do not propose that it is investigated here, however it 
has been included as context to our clients current complaint.
Due to this confirmation that the only point to be decided is in relation to the fairness of the 
rate charged by TMB, and following my decision about our jurisdiction, Ill confine my 
decision to that single issue and will make no comments on the other points that formed part 
of the original complaint letter.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which TMB can vary the 
SVR.
Condition 7.6 says:
We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, unless the offer, 
any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement says we cannot. We can change 
the interest rate for any of the following reasons.
(a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our customers with mortgages.
(b) To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including the 
terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect: changes to the law or codes of practice, a decision or recommendation 
made by, or a requirement of, a court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body or an 
undertaking given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the way we look after the mortgage account or mortgage 
accounts generally (including changes to the technology we use) because of:
the steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for managing those 
accounts; or
reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) Because:
we are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of another bank or 
organisation offering similar services;
we are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another bank or 
organisation offering similar services; or
any of these things has happened, and the change will make sure that our customers 
and the customers of the other bank or organisation are treated in a similar way if 
they are in similar categories.
(g) To reflect changes to the way the property is used or occupied.
Where we refer to changes in the above list, we mean changes we know will happen or 
we reasonably believe will happen, or changes which have already taken place.
Condition 7.7 says:
We can also change the interest rate for any other valid reason.
The 2007 mortgage offer sets out that after the fixed rate expired in 2009, the mortgage 
would revert to the SVR, and the terms and conditions set out that the SVR could be varied 
in line with the terms of the mortgage. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that 
TMB was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track the base rate. 
There was also no obligation on a lender to offer a new preferential rate when an old one 
expires  or at any other time  in the rules of mortgage regulation. And nothing in 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage offer says that TMB would move them onto a new rate either. To 
that extent, the mortgage has operated as it should.
By the time the initial fixed rate ended in 2009 TMB was what is known as a closed book 
lender  which means that it doesnt take on new mortgage business and doesnt offer new 
interest rates to existing customers. So if any existing customer had wanted a new rate, TMB 
had nothing to offer them. As Ive said, there is no obligation on a lender to offer new rates to 
existing customers, and since TMB didnt make rates available to any customer  not just 
Mr and Mrs J  I dont think it was treating them unfairly.
There was a process whereby TMB customers could move to another lender within the 
banking group to access a new interest rate. Mr and Mrs J availed themselves of this option 
in 2017, and the fact that wasnt done sooner formed part of the complaint decided by my 
Ombudsman colleague in 2019 so I wont comment any further on that here.Taking all that into account, I dont think it was unfair that Mr and Mrs J were on TMBs SVR. 
That said, our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent 
to which, the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs J. I think 
that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Js mortgage since 7 September 2015, its 
necessary for me to consider historic changes to TMBs SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes TMB made to the SVR 
since Mr and Mrs J took their mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything 
TMB has done in varying the rate has led to Mr and Mrs J being treated unfairly. I have set 
out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence TMB has 
provided in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to Mr and Mrs J, or their 
representative.
Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is 
disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate 
to accept the information and evidence TMB has provided in confidence, subject to the 
summary of it I have set out in this decision.
The 2007 mortgage offer makes clear the SVR is a variable rate. Theres no suggestion in 
either the offer or the terms and conditions that its directly linked to or tracks the BoEBR.
When Mr and Mrs J took out their fixed rate in 2007, the SVR was 7.59%. Whilst they were 
on their fixed rate, TMB had reduced its SVR so that by the time they began to pay the SVR 
it was 4.84%. The SVR then increased to 4.95% in November 2011 and then didnt change 
again before Mr and Mrs J repaid their mortgage in 2017.
As I say, theres nothing that links the SVR to BoEBR, or says that the SVR must be 
changed when the BoEBR changes. Nor is there anything in the terms and conditions that 
obliges TMB to change the SVR at any time  the terms allow TMB to make changes in 
certain limited circumstances, but dont require it to do so. 
The SVR was reduced between 2008 and 2010  around the same time as (though not to 
the same extent as) falls in the BoEBR. Between 2007 (when Mr and Mrs J took out their 
fixed rate product) and June 2009 when their fixed rate period ended, the difference between 
the BoEBR and the SVR increased from 2.34% to 4.34%
The SVR increased slightly in 2011, and then stayed constant until Mr and Mrs J paid off 
their mortgage with TMB in 2017. There were no changes to the BoEBR in 2011, and while 
there were changes to the BoEBR in 2016 and 2017 there were no changes to the SVR.
TMB has explained that it made these changes to the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of 
funding its mortgage business. Its provided us with evidence that shows that its costs 
changed over time, and that the changes to the SVR it made from time to time reflected the 
changes to its costs. 
Im aware from my wider knowledge of the mortgage market that there were significant 
funding pressures across the mortgage market around the time of the financial crisis and its 
aftermath, from 2008 to 2010, and that there was an increasing disconnect between the BoEBR and mortgage funding costs. This reinforces my view that the evidence shows 
changes TMB made at this time to the SVR reflected changes in its costs, which reduced but 
not to the same extent as reductions in the BoEBR. 
In 2011, TMB increased its SVR by 0.11% outside of any changes to BoEBR. It has told us 
this was due to an increase in the cost of holding equity as per its requirements under Basel 
II and has provided evidence of these increases. It has also shown that its margins overall 
had reduced to below the levels they were before the financial crisis. To meet these 
increased costs, driven in part by changes to regulatory requirements, it chose to increase 
its SVR. I am satisfied the terms provide for this scenario and that TMB has evidenced it 
exercised its contractual right to vary the SVR fairly.
Following the change in 2011, Mr and Mrs Js SVR remained static at 4.95% until they paid 
off their mortgage with TMB in 2017. The BoEBR did reduce in 2016 before subsequently 
increasing in 2017, but TMB was not obligated to track BoEBR, or reduce its SVR solely 
because the BoEBR had reduced. And as I have set out above, TMBs cost of funding was 
multi-faceted, with the BoEBR being only one of a number of influencing factors.
Ive taken into account that TMB is a closed book lender, and doesnt lend new mortgages to 
new customers. But that doesnt mean its costs are fixed; until mortgages it has lent are 
repaid, TMB has to cover the ongoing costs of raising the funds it lent, which are themselves 
subject to change. 
Overall, Im satisfied that TMB has shown that it was entitled to rely on the terms and 
conditions to make the changes to the SVR it did make, and that there was no obligation on 
it to make changes to the SVR at other times. Taking that into account, I dont think theres 
evidence either that TMB relied on changes it was not entitled to make in setting the SVR 
charged at the start of the period I can consider, or that it acted unfairly in making further 
changes to the SVR during that period. 
I also note that throughout this period TMBs SVR was not substantially out of line with SVRs 
across the mortgage market. Although the SVR was higher than the preferential rates 
offered by other lenders, there was no obligation on TMB to offer preferential rates and the 
SVR wasnt substantially out of line with the reversion rates of other lenders. I think this is 
also a relevant factor in considering whether TMB acted fairly in setting the SVR at the level 
it did.
Ive explained that I can only consider the fairness of the interest rate TMB charged Mr and 
Mrs J in the six years leading up to their complaint. Im satisfied that it was not unfair that 
they were on the SVR in that period. And Im satisfied  having taken into account both the 
changes to the SVR TMB made in this period, and the changes it made more than six years 
before the complaint but which influenced the level of the SVR in this period  that the level 
of the SVR was not unfair either. I dont therefore uphold this complaint.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs Js representative argues that TMB has breached what it says 
was an implied term, not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR dishonestly, for an 
improper purpose, capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting 
reasonably would do. For the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present 
case, Im satisfied that TMB did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the 
SVR fairly and in line with the terms of the contract.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman