DRN-3097044
The complaint
Ms D complains Everyday Lending Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms D applied for, and was given a loan for £2,500, which was repayable over 
a period of 36 months. The repayments were around £197 a month, and in total Ms D 
agreed to pay back just over £7,105 over the three years, once interest was added. 
Ms D struggled to make the loan repayments and in February 2021, Everyday Lending 
obtained a court order demanding she repay the loan in full. Ms D says Everyday Lending 
shouldnt have given her the loan because it wasnt affordable. This has caused her stress 
and anxiety.
Everyday Lending says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and Ms D did have 
enough disposable income to make the loan repayments. It says its affordability calculation 
showed she was left with a monthly disposable income of around £62 after taking into 
account the monthly repayments on the new loan.
Our investigator thought Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. Although Everyday Lending 
initially agreed, it then changed its position and so this complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. Ive not seen that the court examined the decision to lend to Ms D and so I 
see no reason not to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Everyday Lending needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms D 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms D would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way.
Everyday Lending did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But I agree 
with the investigator that given the total cost of repaying the money Ms D was borrowing, the 
information she had provided about her income and expenditure, together with the 
information on her credit file, Everyday Lendings checks werent good enough. 
 
Everyday Lending asked for some information from Ms D before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of her income and estimated her monthly costs using national statistics. 
Everyday Lending attempted to verify Ms Ds income electronically using a bank account 
turnover check from a credit reference agency  but this returned a result showing the 
income Ms D had declared couldnt be confirmed. So Everyday Lending asked Ms D for two 
months of bank statements instead. 
It reviewed her credit file to understand her credit history and existing commitments. It also 
asked about the purpose of the loan which was for an overseas trip to attend the funeral of a 
relative. From these checks combined Everyday Lending concluded that Ms D had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford the loan. But I dont think it reacted appropriately to the 
data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill explain why. 
For its affordability assessment Everyday Lending used national statistics to estimate Ms Ds 
expenses. Whilst this can be a fair approach in certain circumstances, as Ms D had provided 
bank statements, I would expect Everyday Lending to use these to assess her expenses as 
well as her income. These statements covered the periods: 4 January to 31 January 2019; 
31 January to 3 February 2019; and 28 February 2019  so not the full two months 
statement history requested. Whilst they do show two salary credits, they also show Ms D 
borrowing from a high cost short-term revolving credit facility as she neared her £4,000 
overdraft limit. Indeed, when Ms D received her £1,015 January salary credit, it left her still 
£2,300 overdrawn. I do note, however, Ms D later received a £6,500 credit from a motor 
dealership and appears to be from the sale of a car  her credit file shows she had entered 
into a new large hire purchase agreement in the same month.
Everyday Lending only saw four days statement history covering February 2019 but Ms D 
has given us her statement covering the full month. Although Everyday Lending didnt see 
the full months statement history  as it had asked for  I think it should have. I would have 
expected Everyday Lending to react to this information it gathered for January 2019 (low 
income, high cost short-term credit, significant overdraft usage) and ensure it fully 
understood Ms Ds actual living costs. Had it done so, Everyday Lending wouldve seen 
Mrs D started the month £2,750 in credit and finished it £3,645 overdrawn and that she had 
drawn down on her high cost short-term revolving credit facility five times. 
I think this all casts significant doubt as to the reliability of Everyday Lendings affordability 
assessment and its calculation arriving at Ms D having a monthly disposable income of 
around £62. However, while also noting Ms Ds bank statements suggest she had no income 
at her disposal, I am not setting out what Everyday Lending should have calculated Ms Ds 
actual disposable income to be. This is because I think there is a more critical reason 
Everyday Lending should not have lent to Ms D. 
Everyday Lending should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Ms D would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. But its checks left Ms D 
with a monthly disposable income of only £62. Her new loan commitment was around £197 
a month. So, should an unforeseen expense mean Ms D missed a payment one month, it 
would take at least four months to get back on track. Ms D was a single parent with three 
dependants and no matter how well she budgeted her spending, I think it is reasonable to 
suggest her best made plans could easily be derailed given such small leeway. So, when I 
considered this in the context of an applicant with a modest income, high cost short-term 
credit and significant credit card and overdraft usage, I cant reasonably say Ms D was in a 
financial position to pay this loan in a sustainable way. I also think this is borne out when 
Ms D fell behind on her repayments in August 2019 and she couldnt make good her arrears, 
prompting Everyday Lending to obtain a court order demanding she repay the loan in full.
Altogether, I dont think Everyday Lendings checks went far enough. It doesnt seem to have 
used the bank statements it had to verify the estimate of Ms Ds living. Overall, Im satisfied 
that the available information demonstrated that Ms D wasnt in a position to take on any 
more debt. So, I think Everyday Lending was wrong to give the loan to Ms D.
I havent seen any evidence that Everyday Lending acted unfairly towards Ms D in any other 
way.Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Ms D in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Ms D 
was given the loan and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Ms D back in the position she would be in if 
she hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Everyday Lending Limited should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Ms D made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments 
Ms D has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then any surplus 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her. 
As Everyday Lending has sold the debt to a third party, it can either reacquire the debt 
and adjust the balance, or pay the sum required to achieve the same position to the new 
owner of the debt.  
b) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file as a result of this loan 
(once Ms D has repaid any outstanding balance).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right for Ms D in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman