DRN-4060601
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M trade as a partnership. They have complained that Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited unfairly declined their business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms business is an estate agent in Northern Ireland for which they held business 
interruption insurance with Hiscox. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business interruption, as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. They said that as a result of the government restrictions imposed in 
March 2020 they had to close their business, which resulted in a loss.
   
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) instigated a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they 
should respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same 
wording as Mr and Mrs Ms policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its 
judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox considered Mr and Mrs Ms claim in light of that judgment but refused to pay it. 
Hiscox says the policy provides cover under the public authority section of the policy for 
losses arising as a result of an insured business not being able to use its premises following 
closure by a public authority. However, Hiscox said that Mr and Mrs Ms business was not 
one of the types of business that was required to close under government restrictions and 
had been permitted to continue to operate. 
Hiscox also considered if there was cover under a non-damage denial of access clause 
which covers denial of access of the insured premises as a result of a specific incident within 
a one mile radius of the premises. Hiscox said Mr and Mrs Ms business was not denied 
access of its premises as a result of an incident and so this section of cover would not apply 
to the claim either. 
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service. They 
said Hiscox had entered into a contract that it hadnt fulfilled and had given them misleading 
advice. Mr and Mrs M said the government had given clear advice to close their business 
and remain at home. They said people were unable to leave their homes without a 
reasonable excuse and it was illegal for them to provide viewings on homes. They said it 
wasnt reasonable to expect them to provide properties without viewings, gatherings were 
banned, their computer system could only be accessed through the internal network and as 
it was mandatory to close their staff had been placed on furlough. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter buts did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt think our Investigator had properly considered that their business was 
based in Northern Ireland. They said the police had set up roadblocks to prevent people 
travelling without a legitimate reason and provided an email from the Department of Health 
in support of their position. They asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M are also unhappy about the sale of the policy and said 
Hiscox provided misleading advice during the sale. As the policy was sold by a broker any 
complaint about the sale would need to be considered separately. In this decision I can only 
comment on the actions of Hiscox in relation to the claim. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Mr and Mrs Ms entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of 
the policy provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require damage to the insured premises or property 
nearby. I have considered the sections of cover that both parties consider are relevant to this 
claim below: 
Public authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a 
public authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority  
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Mr and Mrs Ms 
was considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts 
judgment said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not 
cover all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the 
interruption is caused by the policyholders inability to use the business 
premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Mr and Mrs Ms business alone. The court also made it 
clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to 
use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this policy term would 
provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, 
for all or for a discrete part of its business. In my opinion it is clear from the quote above that the court determined that impairment or 
hindrance of use would not be enough to trigger cover under these terms. So the question is 
whether or not Mr and Mrs M suffered an inability to use their premises. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2020 (the 
Regulations) are relevant, as they set out which businesses were required by the 
government to close in March 2020 and significantly, estate agents were not on the list of 
businesses required to close. So I dont think that the Regulations meant there was an 
inability for Mr and Mrs M to use their premises. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M might not 
have been able to provide in-person viewings for customers in properties but I dont think 
that this constitutes an inability to use their insured premises, the addresses of which are set 
out in the policy schedule. 
The Regulations did impose other restrictions. For example as Mr and Mrs M have said, they 
banned gatherings and stated that people could not leave home without a reasonable 
excuse. However, the Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they 
were unable to work from home. I consider that Mr and Mrs Ms employees would be seen to 
be travelling for the purposes of work when attending the premises if they were unable to 
work from home. So I dont think this meant Mr and Mrs M experienced an inability to use 
their premises either. 
Mr and Mrs M provided an email from the Department of Health but I think this email 
supports that Mr and Mrs M were not unable to use their premises. The email said: 
The initial restriction regulations introduced on 28 March 2020 did not specifically 
require the closure of estate agents, however restrictions on movement from your 
home were in place and movement for the purposes of viewing a property for 
sale or rent was not considered essential and as such was not permitted. Some 
businesses may have chosen to close at this time however some chose to 
facilitate virtual viewings.
As Ive said above, while viewings were not permitted, I dont think that means Mr and Mrs M 
were unable to use their own business premises. Mr and Mrs M said that their employees 
were placed on furlough. But that also doesnt mean that Mr and Mrs M were unable to use 
their premises to carry out their business, as their business was not required to close and 
their employees could have travelled to work if they could not reasonably work from home. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs M were unable to use their premises 
and I do not consider that Hiscox acted inappropriately in declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
under this section. 
Non-damage denial of access 
This part of the policy covers business interruption losses caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius 
of the insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in 
access to the insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by 
order of the government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive 
hours.
I have already determined above that Mr and Mrs Ms access to the premises was not 
denied or prevented. I dont intend to make a finding on whether their access to the insured premises was hindered because even if it were, I dont think that any restrictions that may 
have caused such hindrance were as a result of an incident. 
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need 
for an incident: 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way ...an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a 
misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA 
clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it 
is a misnomer purposes of the clause. 
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 156: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider 
that there was an incident within a one mile radius which prevented or hindered Mr and    
Mrs Ms access to their premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably 
in finding that this clause doesnt cover Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
I do not think there is any other part of the policy that would provide cover for this claim 
either. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for but, having considered 
things very carefully, I dont believe that I can fairly require Hiscox to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman