DRN-2807199
The complaint
Mr W, the director of company B has complained on behalf of B. The complaint, in summary, 
is that when B refinanced two existing loans it had with Handelsbanken Plc, the bank said 
that the new loans would be offered on the same terms as the previous ones but that was 
not the case. Mr W also says that the bank pressured B to quickly sign the agreements and 
so this could not be spotted.
 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat that at 
length here. Briefly, as I understand it:
B took two loans with Handelsbanken in 2014 for a term of five years. The loans were to 
expire in August 2019 and October 2019 respectively. The repayments to the loans were 
being made on a monthly basis. 
In 2019, following an agreement with the parties to refinance the loans, the relevant 
paperwork was sent to B by the bank in August 2019. B signed and returned the new 
agreements. 
Mr W says that he realised only in November 2019 that under the new agreements the 
repayment frequency was quarterly. He says this was not something he wanted. He says 
that B is a residential landlord, its income is monthly and so he wanted the loan repayments 
too on a monthly basis. He says that the bank had created a mis-match of income and 
outflow and that is affecting B.
Handelsbanken said that it stopped offering monthly repayments in 2018 for the type of 
loans B took. So, this option wasnt available to B at the time of refinance. However it offered 
to set up a sinking fund account whereby B could transfer payments on a monthly basis into 
this account and every quarter the bank would take the repayment from this account. 
Mr W did not find this satisfactory. He did not want to maintain two separate accounts. He 
insisted that the bank should restructure the loans to allow monthly repayments. If that was 
not possible then B would like to refinance its loans with another lender that allows monthly 
repayments. And the bank should allow B to settle its loans without any charge or penalty. 
The bank did not agree to this.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and whilst the review was ongoing, there 
were a couple of offers from the bank. Ultimately the bank was prepared to do as below:
1. Set up a sinking fund to facilitate monthly payments. The bank further said that as the 
loans are linked to LIBOR, they had to be transitioned out of LIBOR terms anyway before 
the end of 2021 to new terms linked to another risk-free rate (RFR). The bank said that 
the new terms would allow the repayments to be made on a monthly basis. So, this 
arrangement would only need to be temporary. 
2. However, if B would like to refinance elsewhere and settle these two loans, that would be 
possible. This usually involves: a repayment charge of 1% on the loan balance, an 
administration fee of £300 and security release fees of £150 for each item of security, 
(totaling about £2,700). The bank said that by way of resolution it is prepared to reduce 
the repayment charge from 1% to 0.375% which would save B around £9,000. But it said 
that B would have to pay other charges.
Our investigator concluded that the banks offer was fair in the circumstances. She said, in 
summary:
The bank did not produce the relevant paperwork to extend the two loans until after the 
first loan expired in early August 2019. However, the bank made arrangements to ensure 
that B did not lose out as a result of the delay. From the submissions she had seen, 
there is no evidence that the bank pressured B to sign the terms. 
The email sent by the bank in early August 2019 confirmed that the loan taken in August 
2014 had expired and that we have agreement and loan docs to extend on the same 
terms. This was misleading because the bank no longer offered the repayment 
frequency on a monthly basis. 
However, when the agreements were sent to B for signing, the covering letter asked B to 
check the agreements carefully to ensure that they met Bs understanding of the terms. 
Both the agreements were clear that the interest payment date will be quarterly and that 
repayments will be made in quarterly instalments too. 
Whilst it is appreciated that B may have initially led to believe that the terms were same 
as per the email, it was still expected to verify the key terms to ensure they were in line 
with what B expected before it signed them.  
Considering all the above, the offer from the bank is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr W disagreed. He insisted that B had lost out due to change in the loan terms and that he 
was clearly rushed into signing the documents. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator essentially for the 
same reasons.
On the face of it, paying at the end of the quarter rather than paying at the end of each 
month does have some cashflow advantage. However I can see that Bs preference was to 
make monthly payments. 
The email sent by the bank in early August 2019 gave the impression that there were no 
changes to the term but that was not the case, at least in relation to the repayment mode. So 
I think the bank made an error here.
On the other hand I agree with the investigator that B also had a responsibility to review the 
terms. Mr W says that B did not do this because the bank was paid to act on its behalf. He asked the question whether the loan was on the same terms and was told it was. So he had 
no reason to doubt the bank. 
I appreciate what Mr W says. However I think it is reasonable to expect that B checked the 
key terms on what was a significant amount of loan to ensure that they were in line with what 
B wanted. I also consider that the relevant term (that the repayment was on a quarterly 
basis) was prominent enough that even with a cursory check it could have been spotted. 
Nevertheless, I see that the bank has offered to set up a sinking fund account that will 
collect payments on a monthly basis which it says will mimic the previous loan offering but 
without having to alter the loan arrangements currently in place. By this I understand that 
the proposed arrangement would replicate the situation B would have been in, had the 
arrangements were in fact set up on a monthly repayment basis.
I am satisfied that this is a reasonable compromise in the circumstances. I appreciate there 
would have been some inconvenience to B in having to monitor two accounts. However, my 
understanding is that under the LIBOR transition, a new arrangement had to be in place 
before the end of 2021 in any case. And the bank told us that at the time of transition it is 
likely that it would be able to migrate to a Base rate related loan with a monthly payment 
mechanism with no detriment to customers.  Thus, even if this arrangement is put in place 
now, it would only last until end of 2021 or sooner if the transition happens earlier. 
Overall, I consider that the banks offer to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
As I consider that the banks above offer is fair and reasonable, I do not have to make a 
finding on the other offer by the bank should Mr W choose to leave the bank. This is the 
banks offer to waive more than 50% of the total exit costs and security release fees. The 
bank has confirmed that the offer is still available should B wish to accept it. I leave it to B 
whether or not it is willing to accept this offer. 
Finally, I consider that the bank ought to have sent the new agreements to sign sufficiently 
ahead of the expiry of the previous loans. But that did not happen in relation to the bigger 
loan that expired in August 2019. The bank only sent the relevant documents after that loan 
expired. 
The bank says there was an internal delay in producing the new loan documents. But I think 
that this may have inadvertently created some sense of urgency to sign the new loan 
document, at least in relation the loan that had already expired. That said, like the 
investigator, I have not seen evidence of undue pressure put on B by the bank to sign the 
documents. I consider it more likely that the bank would have allowed more time if B had 
requested it. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. 
In full and final settlement of it, Handelsbanken Plc should allow B to make payments on a 
monthly basis through the sinking fund account. The monthly payments should be taken in 
such a way as to mimic the situation B would have been in had the arrangements were set 
up on a monthly repayment basis Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman