DRN-3974165
The complaint
Mr W complains Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Bamboo Loans approved Mr W for a £1,000 loan in December 2020. The term of the loan 
was 36 months, with repayments of effectively £60 per month. 
Mr W complains the loan was irresponsibly lent. He says Bamboo Loans did not complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks, and had it done so, it wouldve realised he was 
experiencing financial hardship.
Our investigator did not recommend Mr Ws complaint be upheld. He felt that Bamboo Loans 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks; and subsequently made a fair decision to 
lend.
Mr W disagreed with this outcome. He maintained that Bamboo Loans had not completed 
proportionate checks. He responded saying that his credit file demonstrated that he was 
experiencing financial hardship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Both parties involved are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here. 
Having carefully considered all of the information which has been provided, Im satisfied this 
complaint should not be upheld. This is for broadly the same reasons that our investigator 
set out to Mr W. 
Bamboo Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mr W. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo 
Loans lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess Mr Ws ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, 
without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total 
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
In this instance Bamboo Loans completed an affordability assessment on Mr W, and verified 
some of this information by searching his credit file and using a third party online verification 
tool. It also obtained copies of Mr Ws payslips and copies of Mr Ws benefit income. Mr W 
declared that his total income was approximately £1,400 per month and that his main 
monthly expenses left him with a sufficient disposable income per month. Mr W declared that 
he was a tenant paying rent, and that he split most household bills with his partner. Mr W 
declared he had two dependents at this time. 
The credit file search showed that Mr W did have a number of existing credit commitments. 
This was made up of four existing credit cards, an overdraft and some mail order accounts. 
The credit file suggested Mr W was utilising around 80% of his available credit limits. Mr W 
also had an unsecured loan which had been taken out about six months prior to this 
application. The credit file demonstrated that Mr W had some issues managing credit in the 
past and had defaults registered against him in the last three years. However, his credit 
commitments over the past 12 months had been managed well, with payments made on 
time.
Mr W says these checks werent proportionate and that his credit file demonstrates he was 
in financial difficulties at the time. He also says he had other forms of credit at the time of the 
application. Ive considered his argument, and in this instance, I disagree with it. 
As has been set out above, the checks Bamboo Loans had to complete needed to be 
proportionate to the amount being lent. In this instance the value of the loan and respective 
repayments were relatively low; and as such the checks Bamboo Loans had to completed 
only need to be proportionate to this. Bamboo Loans was also entitled to rely on the 
information it gathered. 
Im satisfied the checks Bamboo completed were proportionate in this instance. I note that it 
took steps to verify the information Mr W had provided. In this instance that included 
verifying Mr Ws income via payslips and copies of his benefits receipts. It also used the 
credit file to verify some of his outgoings. Whilst the credit file did show Mr W had issues in 
the past, this appears to have been some years ago and all within the same time. The recent 
credit demonstrated that Mr W was now managing his finances more positively, and was 
meeting his repayments.
Whilst Mr W had taken a loan out six months prior to this one, I dont think that alone was 
enough to suggest he was in financial hardship  especially as those repayments had 
continued to be met. I also note that whilst Mr W had credit cards, he was again meeting 
these commitments and was utilising these within the respective limits. The same applies to 
the overdraft which was being managing within the limits well. 
So Im satisfied that the checks Bamboo Loans completed gave it a good insight into Mr Ws 
finances, and were proportionate to the amount of credit being provided. As such Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably in relation to Mr Ws complaint.
Even though Bamboo Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks, it still needed 
to carefully consider the information it gathered before making its decision to lend. In this 
instance Bamboo Loans says that Mr W wouldve had the sufficient disposable income to 
meet this credit commitment. In coming to this conclusion, it relied on the verified income it 
gathered from Mr W, the information Mr W provided in his application, national average 
statistics and the information from Mr Ws credit file. 
Ive reviewed this information, and in this instance, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to 
conclude the loan was likely affordable to Mr W. Again, I note the repayment was relatively 
low  around £61 per month. The assessment Bamboo Loans used included Mr Ws existing credit commitments, and sufficient allowances for Mr Ws other outgoings and there was no 
contradictory evidence to the information he provided regarding his payments towards rent. 
As this assessment demonstrated Mr W would have sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably meet the repayments, it follows that Im satisfied that the loan was likely 
affordable to Mr W. As such, Im satisfied Bamboo Loans made a fair decision to lend.
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr W; but Ive not seen any 
further information which demonstrates Bamboo Loans acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman