DRN-4048917
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Ikano Bank AB (publ)s response to a claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs S purchased a new inverter to upgrade her existing solar panel system from a 
supplier, which Ill call S. Her letter of claim said:
S checked her solar panel system, and she was persuaded to purchase an inverter.
S advised her that she needed to replace the components as the system wasnt 
working to its full expectations.
Now that S has been dissolved, Mrs S no longer has a warranty on the products. If 
something was to happen to the panels, she would have to cover this out of her own 
pocket.
Mrs S believes that there has been a breach of contract as S has now been 
dissolved.
Ikano did not respond to the claim, so Mrs S contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service.
When doing so she added the following additional points as to why she was unhappy:
S advised her that by upgrading to the optimised inverter technology the solar panel 
system would be more efficient and she could earn more money from the feed-in 
tariff (FIT).
This inverter had a 25-year warranty with free monitoring for its lifetime.
S stated that if there was a claim in respect of the products it would liaise with the 
manufacturer to remedy the matter. Since S is now dissolved this course of action is 
not now available if there was a fault.
The system is still working but she does not think the benefits originally stated 
outweigh the initial costs of purchasing the inverter on a loan agreement. 
We contacted Ikano, who responded to the original claim to say that if there was a claim 
under the warranty then Ikano would consider this. But since the inverter was still working 
there was nothing for it to do at the moment.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Mrs S responded to say she had nothing further to add. Ikano didnt respond by the 
deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I can look at 
Where a consumer makes a claim under section 75, which in certain circumstances makes a 
creditor responsible for misrepresentations or breaches of contract by a supplier where a 
product or service is purchased using credit, I have the power to consider whether or not the 
business (in this case Ikano) has treated the consumer fairly (Mrs S) when responding to 
that claim.
Because of this, I will only look at the claim that was made, not the additional points that 
Mrs S has later made when contacting the Financial Ombudsman Service. These additional 
points werent part of the original claim, so Ikano had no reason to respond to them. 
Ikanos response to the claim that was made 
Mrs Ss original claim was that there had been a breach of contract since S had gone out of 
business and she could no longer claim on the warranty.
Mrs S has provided a copy of an insurance backed guarantee. This says that the insurer will 
cover claims under the suppliers guarantee if S is unable to. The insurance-backed 
guarantee was for ten years and runs until 2026, so is still active. If Mrs S needs to make a 
claim under the guarantee she should contact the insurer (or its administrator) as set out in 
the documents. Mrs S has not provided a copy of any other guarantees or warranties 
provided to her by S.
The promotional sales documents indicate different warranty times for different components 
that S sold. However, Mrs S has not provided a copy of the contract that shows exactly what 
products she purchased. And those warranty times in the promotional sales documents may 
refer to manufacturer warranties, rather than something provided by S itself. While S has 
gone out of business and cannot liaise with the manufacturer, Mrs S would still be able to 
claim under any ongoing manufacturers warranties directly if she needs to.
In addition to this, if Mrs S thinks there is an issue that S would have been liable for, she can 
contact Ikano to ask if it will help under section 75.
So, I think Ikanos response to Mrs Ss claim was fair. I dont think there is any more it should 
do in regards to the claim Mrs S has made to Ikano. As such, I dont uphold this complaint.
Mrs Ss additional points as to why she is unhappy 
Mrs S has made some additional points that were not part of her original claim (even though 
she may have intended them to be). These seem to include an allegation of 
misrepresentation on the part of S in regards to the benefits of the inverter.
If Mrs S wants to pursue a section 75 claim in relation to misrepresentation, she should 
contact Ikano directly to do so. When doing so, she should explain exactly why she wishes 
to make a claim and what she thinks S did wrong. She should also provide evidence to 
Ikano, such as a full copy of the original contract, all sales and warranty/guarantee 
documents she was provided with, and FIT and electricity statements for at least one year 
before and after installation of the inverter  so the benefits of it can be determined. This 
would allow Ikano to make a full assessment of the claim.
If Mrs S makes such a claim and she is unhappy with Ikanos response, then she could 
make a complaint to Ikano about that and then contact the Financial Ombudsman to ask us 
to look into Ikanos response to the complaint if she remains unhappy or if Ikano hasnt 
responded to the complaint within eight weeks.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman