DRN-3344912
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge him for his Gold 
Service packaged bank account in 2021. 
Mr H says that he was told when he took out the account that it would come with a fee-
waiver for life.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by removing the fee-waiver from Mr Hs account.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on all the evidence that is available. And 
having considered everything that has been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr H says that he was told that he would always be able to have a Gold Service account for 
free, providing he kept his balance above a certain amount. Mr H is referring to what is 
known as a fee-waiver, which has been a long-standing feature of the Gold Service account.
Unfortunately, as the sale of the account took place many years ago there is little evidence 
that is available about what exactly was said and agreed during the sale. Im also mindful 
that due to the time scales involved memories can change and fade over time. Furthermore, 
beyond Mr Hs testimony, there is no other evidence available that shows, or even suggests, 
he was promised that Lloyds was essentially unable to change any of the features on the 
account, or at least the fee-waiver feature, for the duration of Mr Hs life. In the 
circumstances, I think its more likely that he was told he could have the Gold Service 
account for free (providing he met the fee-waiver) and would continue to do so, like any 
other feature of the account, for as long as it existed as a feature on the account. 
In addition to considering what Mr H mayve been told during the sale, I have also 
considered whether Lloyds was able to make such an amendment to the account. Again, 
due to the time scales involved, Ive not seen a copy of the account terms and conditions 
from the sale. However, the earliest Terms and conditions of the Gold Service account I 
have seen are from 1997, and the terms of the account include a provision that says:
Lloyds Bank may vary the service and facilities offered on its Gold Service Current Account 
on giving notice to you, if and when it is necessary or appropriate to do so:
to deal with legal, fiscal or regulatory requirements;
to rectify errors, omissions, inaccuracies or ambiguities;
to take account of any corporate reorganisation within the group of companies of 
which Lloyds Bank Plc is a part; and
to reflect alterations in the scope and nature of the service which we are able to 
provide to customers in accordance with our systems capabilities and routines and 
having regard to market practice and overall customer demand
This is a fairly standard account term that, and as far as I can see, has existed in some form 
or another in the account terms and conditions since then. So bearing this in mind, I think its 
likely that a similar term, allowing Lloyds to amend the cost and features of the account, was 
also included in the account terms and conditions when Mr H agreed to the account. And I 
can see that over the years Mr H held the account, Lloyds has on many occasions amended 
the cost of the account; the features it came with; and even increased the fee-waiver amount 
from £1,000 to £1,500 and then again to £2,000.
Therefore, I am satisfied that Lloyds was able to amend the features of the account - as it did 
many times over the years Mr H held it - providing it gave account holders reasonable notice 
of the changes. And in the case of Mr H, I can see that Lloyds wrote to him in June 2021 to 
say that the fee-waiver feature on his account was being removed from the 1 September 
2021. So I think that Lloyds did give Mr H a reasonable amount of time in which to consider 
his options.
Finally, even if Mr H was incorrectly told that hed get the fee-waiver for life, had things 
gone as they shouldve and hed been told that he would in fact only get a fee-waiver for as 
long as it remained as a feature on the account and that it could in fact be changed (as I 
think the terms and conditions likely allowed), then I think its likely that Mr H would still have 
agreed to the account. I say this especially because Mr H says that he was initially unable to 
meet the fee-waiver criteria, and agreed to it even though he had to pay the monthly fee 
when he first took it out. So I dont think it was necessarily the main reason why he agreed to 
the account. I also think its unlikely that he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account (which could be downgraded at any time) solely because one of its features may be 
changed or amended at some point in the future.
As such, I cant say that Lloyds has treated Mr H unfairly in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
because it chose to withdraw the fee-waiver feature on Mr Hs Gold Service account. I 
therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman