DRN-3855534
The complaint
Miss I is complaining that Moorwand Ltd cancelled her prepaid virtual card programme.
What happened
In June 2021 Miss I bought an electronic ring  through a company who I shall refer to as K 
 which enabled her to add prepaid money onto the ring to make contactless purchases. 
She paid £99 for the ring and entered into a four year agreement with K to use the product. 
She entered into a separate contract with Moorwand to provide the payment service to 
facilitate the loading of the money onto the ring.
In June 2022, the membership agreement with K renewed and Miss I paid an annual fee of 
£5. However, in July 2022 Moorwand wrote to Miss I to say that the programme would be 
coming to an end in two months time.
Miss I responded to complain that the programme was ending. She said bought the ring on 
the basis of entering into a four year programme which she said was now being rendered 
useless. So she wanted Moorwand to refund the amount she paid for the ring on a pro-rata 
basis, taking into account the amount shed used, and she also wanted it to refund the £5 
membership fee she paid. She also said she used the product as it made using public 
transport easier owing to her disability. And she was unhappy Moorwand only gave two 
months notice it was ending the agreement. She also complained that shed had issues 
loading money onto the ring in recent months. So she wanted Moorwand to pay 
compensation for all of this.
Moorwand responded to say it had taken the decision to close the product due to a potential 
risk to the customers. It said Miss I was entitled to a refund of the funds shed added to the 
ring, but it said there would be a £5 administration fee to facilitate this. Finally it said that it 
wasnt a party to the sale of the ring and said shed need to request a refund in respect to 
any costs associated with this from K directly. Miss I remained unhappy with what had 
happened and she also complained she was having to pay an administration fee to get her 
money back. So she referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He said we couldnt look at the actions of K 
in selling the product as Moorwand wasnt responsible for this. He didnt think Moorwand 
was being unfair in ending the agreement given the concerns it had, but he didnt think it was 
fair for it to charge Miss I an administration to recover her money. He didnt think Moorwand 
needed to refund anything further.
Moorwand accepted the investigators opinion. But Miss I didnt agree as she said that 
Moorwand had said it was now her sole point of contact and had taken responsibility for 
everything. And she reiterated shed lost out as a result of what had happened.
As Miss I didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to firstly set out the respective contracts Miss I entered into with 
Moorwand and K. I understand Miss I entered into a contract with K to purchase an 
electronic ring to facilitate contactless payments. Miss I has told us she entered into a four 
year contract with K and paid £99 for the ring and would pay a £5 management charge per 
year thereafter. She then entered into a separate contract with Moorwand to add prepaid 
funds onto the ring to facilitate the contactless payments.
Ultimately, Moorwand had concerns about Ks actions, so decided to end its contract with 
Miss I, giving her two months notice. Miss I thinks this was unfair and says shes lost out 
significantly as a result  both financially as she was no longer able to use the four year 
contract with K and also owing to the distress and inconvenience in not being able to use the 
product that she found really useful.
I appreciate Miss Is strength of feeling that whats happened is unfair, but I need to decide 
whether Moorwand acted unfairly  taking into consideration the terms of the contract. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint, the terms of the contract sets out the following:
We may at any time suspend, restrict or cancel your [K] Product(s) or refuse to issue or 
replace a [K] Product(s) for reasons relating to the following:
we are concerned about the security of your account or [K] Products we have issued to 
you. We suspect your account is being used in an unauthorised or fraudulent manner; or
we need to do so to comply with the law.
So Moorwand was entitled to cancel the agreement where it had concerns about the security 
of Miss Is account, but it needed to exercise this right in a fair and reasonable way. Im 
satisfied that Moorwand had fair and genuine concerns regarding the account and the 
potential risk to Miss I. So I dont think it was unfair for Moorwand to close the account. It 
gave Miss I two months notice of its intention to do so, so Im also satisfied it gave her fair 
warning of the account closure. However, I dont think its fair that Miss I has to pay an 
administration fee to recover money shes already loaded onto the product under the terms 
of her Moorwand agreement. So I agree with the investigator that Moorwand should waive 
this fee. And Im pleased to see Moorwand has agreed to do so.
I appreciate Miss I is unhappy that shes not had full use of the K product and Ive thought 
about whether I can fairly require Moorwand to compensate her for this. The terms of her 
Moorwand contract sets out that Moorwand isnt liable for any consequential losses, but Ive 
thought about whether this is fair in these circumstances. Ultimately Moorwand cancelled the 
agreement to safeguard the account from potential risk. As I said, Im satisfied the terms of 
the agreement entitled it to do this and Im also satisfied that it acted fairly in doing so. So 
Moorwand hasnt breached any terms of the agreement in doing what its done and I cant 
reasonably require it to compensate Miss I for any consequential losses that she may have 
incurred as a result of this  such as loss of use of the K product. If Miss I has concerns 
regarding the amount she paid to K, shell need to raise this with K directly.
I note Miss I says Moorwand took responsibility for everything K did, but I dont agree. It said 
it would be her sole point of contact, but I havent seen anything to show that it agreed to 
compensate her for anything K did wrong. 
Finally, Ive thought about Miss Is comments that she had some issues loading money onto the ring. But, as I said above, Moorwand was entitled to restrict access to the account where 
it had concerns about the security of the account, which I believe may be why she may have 
had some issues loading money onto the account. And for the reasons I set out above, I 
cant say Moorwand acted unreasonably in this regard.
Ultimately, while I naturally sympathise with the situation Miss I has found herself in, other 
than charging an administration fee to refund the money she had added to the ring, I cant 
say Moorwand has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint 
and I require Moorwand Ltd to waive the administration fee it was charging for Miss I to 
receive a refund of the money she had uploaded. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman