DRN-3556378
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent her losing money to a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In June 2021 Mrs R made a payment from her Santander account in a branch. The 
international payment was for £5,000 and she believed it was going to an escrow company. 
It was to be held by them until a caravan her sister was buying online had been safely 
delivered, only then would it have been released to the seller. 
But unfortunately, the genuine escrow company had been impersonated. When the caravan 
wasnt delivered as expected Mrs R contacted the genuine escrow company and discovered 
the scam. She reported this to Santander who contacted the beneficiary bank. But sadly 
there were no funds available to be recovered. 
Mrs R complained to Santander, she doesnt think they did enough to protect her from falling 
victim to a scam. Santander declined to offer a refund and the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs R disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mrs R, so Ill explain why. 
I accept that Mrs R has been the victim of a cruel scam, and I dont think she was negligent 
in instructing the payment as she did. But I also dont think there is anything more Santander 
reasonably could have done that would have prevented the loss (or part of it). 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs R herself instructed the payment. Santanders first obligation is to 
follow the instructions Mrs R provides. This is in line with the relevant regulations and the 
terms of the account. But they must also be alert to instances of fraud and scams and act in 
their customers best interests. 
It seems Santander identified this payment as unusual for Mrs R and her account as they 
took some additional steps prior to processing it. This is what Id generally expect given the 
value of the payment and the fact that it was in a branch with a natural opportunity for 
interaction.
Where Im faced with incomplete, or contradictory evidence (as I am in this case), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That being what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened. 
Both Santander and Mrs R agree that she was asked to provide additional proof of 
identification prior to processing the payment. Mrs R says she doesnt remember Santander 
asking her any questions or giving her a warning in relation to the payment she was 
instructing. She says her sister remembers her commenting at the time about being 
surprised she only had to provide her identification, rather than anything further. 
The evidence from Santander which was recorded at the time indicates that Mrs R was also 
given a scam warning. Further to this Santander contacted the member of branch staff who 
said they recalled their conversation with Mrs R. In summary they said theyd asked Mrs R if 
shed actually seen the caravan. She says Mrs R confirmed she hadnt but she wanted to go 
ahead as she was saving a lot of money (and was presumably reassured by the escrow 
scheme). 
Im more persuaded by the evidence from Santander, particularly what was recorded at the 
time and I think its most likely the purpose of the payment was discussed with her and that 
she was warned of the potential for a scam. But even if that conversation ought to have gone 
further or been more detailed, Im not sure that it would have made a difference in any case. 
Mrs R has described how shed made checks about the escrow firm before instructing the 
payment. And that all the correspondence shed received appeared genuine. I think she 
would have been reassured by this and would have gone ahead. I dont think any 
reasonable level of questioning by Santander would have made a difference. Overall, I dont 
think there were any failings by Santander which resulted in the payment being made when 
it otherwise wouldnt have been. 
Mrs R has also mentioned the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a voluntary 
scheme which sometimes allows victims of authorised push payment scams to receive 
reimbursement from the banks involved. But the CRM is specific in only applying to transfers 
between UK banks. And as Mrs Rs payment was international, the CRM doesnt apply. This 
means I cant use the CRM as a reason to ask Santander to do more. And I dont think 
Santander being signed up to the CRM obligates them to apply it beyond its scope. 
Mrs R has also mentioned that she put her debit card into a terminal in branch and so she 
thought she would have additional protection applicable to card payments. The evidence 
from Santander shows that the use of the card and PIN formed part of their verification of 
Mrs Rs identity. This supports her testimony that she did enter her PIN in branch. Whilst I 
understand the point Mrs R is making, Im satisfied the payment itself wasnt a card payment 
but an international transfer. And the chargeback scheme, which is what I believe she is 
referring to, simply doesnt apply to payments that werent made using the card in question.  
Ive next gone on to consider Santanders actions when Mrs R reported the scam to them 
around two weeks later. Recovery of funds from an international bank is often more difficult 
than from a bank in the UK. And its common that money is promptly moved on from the 
receiving account to frustrate such attempts. Here, Santander contacted the beneficiary 
bank promptly on notification from Mrs R. I dont think they could have done more to recover 
Mrs Rs funds or that they are responsible for nothing being returned. 
Im sorry to hear of the impact this whole situation has had on Mrs R, but I dont think 
Santander are responsible for the loss or prevented its recovery. And as such I cant fairly 
tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman