DRN-1873280
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Mr and Mrs P say this cover was 
mis-sold to them. 
For consistency Ill refer mainly to C&G in my decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont disbelieve that Mr and Mrs P are giving their 
honest recollection when they say they dont remember wanting or agreeing to the PPI. They 
have said very clearly that they were surprised to find out they even had PPI when they 
asked for it to be checked on their behalf. 
However, these events were a long time ago. Records show, for example, that Mr and Mrs P 
took the PPI out with a re-mortgage in 1996, almost 24 years ago. And it seems this 
mortgage was also closed down a while ago too. So perhaps not surprisingly, we havent 
been able to get any of the original sales documentation from the business to confirm what 
happened. Again, given the timeframe, thats not particularly unusual.
Nevertheless, in cases like this I can refer to my experience of these types of C&G sale, 
because Ive seen quite a few of them. My experience from the C&G mortgage sales Ive 
seen from around the time period in question is that consumers were usually asked to 
choose whether or not they wanted PPI on their mortgage when they completed their 
mortgage application form. Another step was then usually required, in the form of a separate 
PPI application. This went in to more detail about the type of protection they wanted and who 
should be covered.
Its obviously possible Mr and Mrs P just dont remember this now. But I think they would 
have needed to specifically authorise the monthly premium for the PPI to be taken from their 
bank account and I think the third-party insurers would have sent them details of the policy. 
There is now no dispute that PPI was sold, so I see no reason why the insurers wouldnt 
have sent them all the relevant details. To uphold their complaint, Id need to think both C&G 
and the insurer provided no details at all, and I think thats unlikely.In cases like this I need to think what is more likely to have happened because theres 
nothing else to go on. And Im afraid I think its more likely they would have had to give some 
form of consent, seen the funds leaving their account regularly and been sent the policy 
schedule(s) and other information. Its understandable that after so long Mr and Mrs P dont 
remember this now.
My experience is that the PPI was probably recommended to Mr and Mrs P as part of an 
advised sale. This means C&G had a duty to ensure the PPI was suitable for them. Overall, 
I think it was.
This is because Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the PPI also seems 
affordable, given the protection the policy offered them both. I note Mr and Mrs P both had 
professional and skilled jobs, so I know their protection from sickness and unemployment 
would have already been quite good. But unfortunately these things alone dont necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt of use. The mortgage was secured against their home and so the 
consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI, 
on the other hand, would have paid out up to £729 monthly for up to 12 months, so I dont 
think C&G recommending it was unreasonable and I think the cover was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs P.
C&G also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm now what would have been said to Mr and Mrs P and its possible C&G could have 
done a better job in explaining things. But my experience is that the adviser would have 
assessed their financial situation and discussed the cover. As Ive said, I think they would 
have also known the price and who / what was covered. In short, I think they would have had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Im very sorry to disappoint them, but I simply dont have enough evidence to say the PPI 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I therefore dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I dont direct Lloyds Bank plc to do 
anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman