DRN-3775610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave them unsuitable 
investment advice. They say they were inexperienced investors who were about to retire, 
and that Halifax recommended an investment which was too high risk for their 
circumstances.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company. For ease, Ill 
refer to everything as if its been said by Mr and Mrs A.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A sought investment advice from Halifax in October 2007. They planned to retire 
within the next two to three years but wanted to invest a lump sum to achieve capital growth. 
Halifax recommended they invested £80,000 in a Personal Investment Plan (PIP).
Following their complaint, Halifax decided it had recommended too much was invested in the 
PIP. It thought it would have been suitable for Mr and Mrs A to only have invested £40,000 in 
the PIP, given their circumstances. It paid them £6,015.84 compensation which it calculated 
by comparing the investment to the Bank of England bond rate.
Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to this service. They didnt think they should have 
invested in the PIP at all and wanted compensation paid on the entire investment.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the PIP 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs A and she thought redress should be calculated on the £80,000 
they were advised to invest, using the average rate from fixed rate bonds as the comparison 
benchmark.
Halifax didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Just because one aspect of the advice wasnt unsuitable, it doesnt mean that all the 
advice given wasnt suitable. The ombudsman service should be able to conclude how 
much was suitable for Mr and Mrs A to invest.
Mr and Mrs A invested further in the future, and after the 2008 stock market crash, which 
doesnt suggest it was suitable for the entire £80,000 to have remained in deposit-based 
savings. And there is no evidence that Mr and Mrs A couldnt afford the investment.
Mr and Mrs As net disposable income wasnt going to reduce on retirement because 
their outgoings were reducing by more than the drop in income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs A are only complaining about the advice to invest £80,000 in a PIP in 
October 2007. Halifax also recommended a regular savings investment, and it gave other 
investment advice before and after the October 2007 meeting. Mr and Mrs A have not 
brought a complaint about the other investment recommendations Halifax made, and I have 
not considered these in arriving at my conclusion.
Halifax accepts it advised Mr and Mrs A to invest too much of their available capital into the 
PIP. I agree. Mr and Mrs A intended to retire in the next two to three years. Halifax 
recommended investment in the PIP for a period of at least five years. This meant Halifax 
knew that Mr and Mrs As circumstances were going to change during the recommended 
term for holding the PIP. And, whilst their retirement was discussed and Mr and Mrs A were 
confident that their disposable income wouldnt change, I cant see that this was discussed in 
any detail. The PIP included investment in equities, including overseas equities, which carry 
a higher level of risk. I would have expected Halifax to have recorded in detail how Mr and 
Mrs A would have been able to make up any losses in the few years they had before their 
planned retirement.
Mr and Mrs A were assessed as having a medium attitude to risk. But, had a detailed 
discussion about their planned retirement taken place, including how they would make up 
any losses, I think it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have wanted to take 
much, or any, risk to their capital.
Following their complaint, Halifax suggested that it may have been suitable for you to only 
have invested half of this amount. I accept this would have given Mr and Mrs A an 
additional £40,000 in cash deposits. But I cant say with any certainty this is what they would 
have done. If Halifax had discussed their planned retirement with them in greater detail, as it 
should have done, its advice may have been different. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator  the advice to invest £80,000 in the PIP 
was unsuitable.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs A as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently and for that reason I dont think Halifaxs 
redress, based on a £40,000 investment, is fair. I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
What must Halifax do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs A fairly, Halifax must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs A's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable.Halifax should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Halifax should deduct the compensation amount it has already paid to Mr and Mrs A.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
PIP No longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Halifax 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Halifax should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Halifax totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs A wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital, because of their impending retirement.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and 
Mrs A's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs A would 
have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a 
consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should provide details of its calculation to Mr and 
Mrs A in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman