DRN-3183531
The complaint
Mr R complains about what happened when he raised a complaint with Barclays Bank UK
PLC. He said Barclays had wrongly recorded that hed agreed to a resolution on all points of
his complaint, when he thought one ought to have been treated separately.
What happened
Mr R said hed complained about two points, that Barclays had provided him with poor
service, and that it had breached his data protection rights.
Mr Rs complaint about poor service included having to go into a branch to change his
address, and that he had to deal with the bereavement team simply to get through the right
team to talk about this account, which he said was deeply insensitive.
Mr R also complained that, despite all its reassurances, Barclays had sent a card, security
device and PIN to an old address. Mr R said that sending such sensitive items to the wrong
address was a data breach.
But Mr R wanted this second part of his complaint, about sending items to the wrong
address, treated separately. Mr R said hed agreed over the phone with Barclays that it
would be treating this part of his complaint separately. He told us hed been very clear that
he wasnt agreeing to a resolution of the data protection issues at that time. But then
Barclays wrote to him saying that the whole complaint, including the data breach, had been
resolved by him accepting £220.
Mr R protested that he hadnt accepted any resolution for the data protection breach, but he
said Barclays wouldnt change its mind about this. It still thought this point had been dealt
with.
Mr R thought that Barclays had mishandled his complaint. This is the only point that Mr R
wanted our service to look into.
Mr R also said that Barclays had repeatedly failed to fulfil a subject access request (SAR)
that he had made. (I understand that Mr Rs SAR has since been completed.)
Barclays said that it was sorry that it had provided Mr R with poor service. It said the data
protection breach, when a card, security device and PIN were sent to the wrong address,
had been referred through to the right team. Barclays said it would pay Mr R £200 in
compensation, and £20 to cover taxi fares to the branch. When Mr R complained that
Barclays hadnt yet fulfilled his SAR, Barclays paid Mr R a further £25.
Mr R wanted to be clear with us that he wasnt asking us to look into the data breach itself.
He just wanted us to look at how Barclays had handled his complaint about this.
Our investigator said that we cant look at complaints that are just about how a complaint has
been handled, but we could look at the data protection breach for Mr R, and as part of that,
look at how Barclays had resolved this.
Our investigator then wrote to Mr R to say she didnt think that this complaint should be
upheld. She set out the history of the complaint, and said that the complaint centred around
a new card, card reader and PIN being sent to a previous address although Barclays had
repeatedly confirmed that it held the right address for Mr R.
Our investigator said that whilst she could see that Mr R had asked for the data breach to be
dealt with separately, she was satisfied that the compensation offered for the errors made
was in line with what our service would have offered. She said that Mr Rs details didnt
appear to have been compromised, and he didnt lose money because of Barclayss
mistakes. She understood hed be worried that a card and PIN were sent to an old address,
but this was dealt with in a quick manner and fortunately there was no direct financial impact.
So she said that the compensation provided was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator said she could see that there had been a miscommunication regarding Mr R
wanting to separate the data breach from the complaint. But she said that all businesses that
hold personal data have an obligation to report any data breaches to internal teams so that
they can check whether the Information Commissioners office(ICO) requires any further
action. She said that when, on the call on 18 June, the agent referred to Mr Rs data breach
being sent to Barclays internal team, this was most likely to be to check if the ICO required
any further action. She didnt think Barclays had promised it would be setting up a separate
complaint.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the complaint was chiefly about the fact that he had specified in
absolute clarity on the resolution phone call that he was not accepting the proposed
resolution with regards to the data breach. But Barclays then sent a final response letter
saying that hed agreed to a resolution regarding the data breach. He said that just wasnt
true. Barclays was lying about the content of the phone conversation.
Mr R said that if we were to listen to the resolution phone call then the dishonesty,
inaccurate recording, and falsification of records by Barclays would be immediately and
abundantly clear.
Mr R also said that Barclays was acutely aware of his disabilities, vulnerability and his
communication needs, but it failed to have due regard to these needs throughout his
correspondence with it. Mr R said that Barclays had taken advantage of this vulnerability to
falsely claim that he accepted something when he did not.
Our investigator said that she didnt disagree that Mr R had clarified in the call that he
wanted the data protection breach dealt with separately. But this had already been dealt with
internally and the steps that had been taken were correct in order to ensure there was no
impact on Mr R. Our investigator said that she understood Mr R felt that Barclays had taken
advantage of his vulnerability, but she didn't feel this was the case here.
Mr R wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Barclays has accepted that it provided Mr R with poor service, it has inconvenienced 
him by requiring him to attend a branch to change his address, and it breached his 
data protection rights. Its also accepted that it caused unnecessary delays in fulfilling 
Mr Rs SAR.
Barclays has paid Mr R a total of £225 in compensation, and £20 to cover costs Mr R 
has incurred. Barclays says it had understood that Mr R accepted this, when it spoke 
to him on 18 June. But Mr R said he didnt. He said Barclays had entirely 
misrepresented the content of a phone call, where Mr R said that hed been clear he 
would accept the offered compensation for the poor service, but he wasnt accepting 
this as a resolution for his complaint about the data protection breach. He thought 
this was more serious, and should be dealt with separately.
Mr R told us that he wanted to complain just about this misrepresentation by 
Barclays, and this part of how it had handled his complaint.
Our investigator has explained that our service cant consider a complaint which is 
solely about how a business has handled a complaint. But we can consider Mr Rs 
original complaint, and as part of that, we can look at whether Barclays handling of 
the complaint has prolonged the issue for Mr R. Thats what our investigator 
considered, and Ive also looked at that.
I can see that Mr R had contacted Barclays, after he spoke to it on 15 June. Barclays 
had made an offer of compensation, and Mr R wanted to think about it.
On 16 June, he wrote this to Barclays 
I should say that, having had some advice and looked over the conversation 
history with your social media team on Twitter and all the emails and phones 
calls, and the insensitivity of everything, entirely separately to the data 
breach, I would suggest that we are leagues apart in terms of compensation 
from the £100 you suggested. The data breach is, to me, a far more serious 
and separate matter and this should be reflected accordingly
I understand that Mr R may well have intended this to be a request for the data 
breach to be treated as a separate complaint. But it looks to me as if Barclays has 
treated this as a request for increased compensation, partly on the basis of the data 
breach being more serious.
I should also note that Barclays isnt under any obligation to separate out Mr Rs 
complaint points. It doesnt have to do that. If Barclays had understood that Mr R was 
asking it to treat these issues separately, and it wasnt prepared to do so, then I think 
it would have been helpful for Barclays to respond to him on that. I cant see that it 
had understood this.
Mr Rs core concerns centre on a call that he had with Barclays on 18 June 2021. 
Ive listened carefully and repeatedly to that call. And its my view that Mr R and 
Barclays were talking at cross purposes on this call.
Mr R says early in the call that he thinks the quality of service was poor, then goes on 
to say that the data breach needs to be handled separately, because I think its quite a bit more serious. The agent Ive recorded the data breach, thats been addressed 
through our internal processes. They need any further information they will come 
back to me. She then made an offer of £200 for Mr Rs distress and inconvenience. 
The offer was discussed, and Mr R agreed to accept it, with the addition of £20 for 
taxi fares.
The call then ends with Mr R saying that 
And Im assuming that the data protection complaint will be handled 
separately, and Ill hear from someone in due course about that.
The agent replied -
The data protection, thats been all logged and registered.  So Ive 
uploaded that onto the complaint. That goes off for them to review, they will 
come back to me then with any further information or if we need to go any 
further with it so once that happens I can give you a call. Thats not a 
problem.
The call handler had already told Mr R that a payment would be made to him, and 
she went on to say that Mr Rs final response letter would be issued to him that day.
I appreciate that Mr R understood he was accepting an offer for the complaint about 
poor service, without the data breach. But I dont think that the call is as clear as Mr 
R has suggested, on that point.
I think, as our investigator said, that when the agent referred to other action being 
taken on Mr Rs data breach, she was referring to the data protection team taking 
separate action, to review the breach. In particular, that team would need to check 
whether it should report the data breach to the ICO. And it does seem to me that this 
is what the agent who was talking to Mr R had in mind. I dont think the agent was 
referring to separate complaints handling action. I think the agent had understood 
that she was resolving Mr Rs complaint on this point.
So, like our investigator, I think what has gone wrong here has been a 
misunderstanding. I do think thats unfortunate. But, having listened carefully and 
repeatedly to this call, I dont think this misunderstanding was Barclayss fault. So I 
dont think that Barclays has prolonged Mr Rs complaint unnecessarily.
And I can see that Barclays did then accept Mr R hadnt agreed to take £220, after 
all, as compensation for his complaint points about poor service and a data 
protection breach.
So Barclays doesnt rely on Mr R having accepted this payment, to resolve this 
complaint. What it said, when the complaint came through to our service, was that it 
still thought this was a fair amount to pay for what had gone wrong. Barclays isnt 
asserting now that Mr R accepted this money, and thats it. Barclays knows Mr R isnt 
happy with this. But Barclays has thought about this too, and it doesnt think its got to 
pay any more for what happened.
Ive explained that Barclays doesnt have to separate out complaint issues, just 
because Mr R wants it to. Its up to Barclays whether it wants to consider issues like 
this separately, or together.
So Ive considered the compensation that Barclays has paid in this case. And, I do 
think its in line with what I would have suggested here, if the payments hadnt 
already been made. And that means I dont think that Barclays has to do more.When Mr R responded to our investigator, he said Barclays had ignored his  
communication preferences when it dealt with him. I have dealt with the content of 
the call that Mr R had on 18 June 2021, and explained what I think went wrong there. 
But I havent considered any wider concerns about whether Barclays used 
appropriate communications and reflected Mr Rs preferences, when it dealt with him. 
Thats because I cant see that this issue has been raised with Barclays yet. And our 
service has to allow a business an opportunity to respond on any new complaints, 
before we can get involved. Ill leave it to Mr R to raise this with Barclays if he wishes.
I know that Mr R will be disappointed, but Ive looked at the points of his complaint 
that our service is permitted to consider, and I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman