DRN-2349923
The complaint
Mr H complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services ended.  
What happened
In September 2016 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with MFS.
Prior to returning the car in October 2019 it was inspected. Following this, MFS asked Mr H 
to pay charges for damage which it said went beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr H disputed the charges and complained to MFS. In response, MFS said it had reviewed 
the inspection report and the images but thought the damage went beyond fair wear and 
tear.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the inspection report and the images and said he thought the 
charges were fair, except for the charges for the LHF wheel, the front bumper and the LHR 
quarter panel. The investigator said these items werent outside fair wear and tear and said 
MFS should reduce the charges by £199.
MFS didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement say that Mr H must return the car 
in good condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fait wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report and the images. The report identifies damage to several 
areas which MFS says exceeds fair wear and tear and is chargeable.
There is damage identified to the LHF wheel, LHR wheel, RHR wheel, front bumper, LHF 
wing, LHF door, LHR quarter panel and rear bumper.
Ive looked at the damage and Ive had regard to the BVLRA guidelines. Based on what Ive 
seen, I agree with the investigator that most of the damage exceeds fair wear and tear. But 
there is some damage which I dont think its fair for MFS to charge for and Ill explain why.
In relation to the scratched LHF wheel, the guidelines state that scuffs up to 50mm are 
acceptable, but that any damage to the wheel spokes and hub isnt. Looking at the images, I 
dont think the scratch exceeds 50mm and theres no damage to the spokes or hub. 
Because of this, I think the damage is within acceptable wear and tear. 
In relation to the damage to the front bumper, the guidelines state that scratches up to 25mm 
are acceptable. Looking at the images, and whilst I can see some scratches, I dont think 
any of these exceeds 25mm. Because of this I think the damage is within acceptable wear 
and tear. 
In relation to the LHR quarter panel, the BVLRA guidelines say that scratches up to 25mm 
are acceptable. Looking at the images I can see that there is a scratch, but the image 
doesnt show clearly that its more than 25mm. Based on this I think the charges should be 
removed.  
Putting things right
Taking everything into consideration, and having regard to the guidelines, Im of the view 
that the charges should be removed for the LHF wheel, front bumper and LHR quarter panel.
Im aware that Mr H has raised concerns about the service he received from the supplying 
dealer and the navigation system on the car. Because the dealership is a separate entity 
from MFS, Im unable to hold MFS responsible for any customer service failings. In relation 
to the navigation system, Mr H hasnt raised this as part of his complaint to MFS, so he will 
need to do this and allow it to be investigated first before this service can consider it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services GB Limited trading 
as Mini Financial Services must remove charges of £199 leaving a balance of £420 for Mr H 
to pay.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman