DRN-3155519
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tenet Connect Limited (Tenet) delayed in disinvesting his pension 
into cash, which caused a financial loss.
References to Tenet include any action taken by agents on its behalf.
What happened
Around March 2019, Mr C authorised Tenet to advise him on his pension arrangements. 
Their initial discussions centred around reviewing Mr Cs existing pension arrangements 
(a fund worth over £500,000 around that time with a provider Ill refer to as A) with a view 
to accessing a capital lump sum. Tenet recommended that Mr C switch his pension to 
another plan with A, which allowed him to take a tax-free cash lump sum and invest the 
remainder in the Tenet growth model.
Tenet prepared a financial planning report in May 2019 in which it set out its 
recommendations having discussed Mr Cs requirements; objectives and attitude to risk. 
As part of the ongoing service that Tenet agreed to give Mr C, it said it would provide the 
following:
annual portfolio review;
annual valuation and statements;
telephone service as and when appropriate or required;
online access to the accounts (platform users only); and
advice about one further withdrawal event in the year from inception.
In addition, Tenet indicated it could offer an ad-hoc service as required, the cost of 
which would depend on the complexity of the work needed.
The client agreement that Tenet sent to Mr C also said that, following discussions with 
you, we may decide, at our discretion, that we are not able to provide advice or proceed 
with your instructions on suitability grounds, however, we will always explain our decision 
to you.
In June 2019 Tenet told Mr C that his adviser would be leaving the company later that 
month. And in January 2020, it confirmed the name of the financial adviser whod be 
looking after his pension portfolio.
In February 2020, Mr C asked to set up a meeting with his new financial adviser. He said 
he was looking to make his annual drawdown at the end of May/beginning of June 2020 
and wanted to discuss the best way to do that and the performance of the fund going 
forward.
Mr C describes a fairly heated discussion with his financial adviser sometime around
24 February 2020. He says that as the markets had started to drop, he stipulated he 
wanted to disinvest his pension fund into cash. According to Mr Cs recollection of the 
conversation, the adviser told him that markets normally recover over time and he should 
leave his pension as it was. Mr C said he explained to the adviser that he needed a 
regular amount of income from his pension (in part because a health condition meant he 
was unsure of his future employment prospects), so he couldnt wait for markets to 
recover and wanted the security of knowing his fund wasnt subject to market fluctuations.
Mr C says the adviser took on board his thoughts/instructions and, as requested, he put 
his instruction in writing. In an email sent on 28 February 2020, Mr C said that, in light of 
the economic situation arising from the global pandemic, he wanted to transfer the whole 
of his pension to a safer cash fund. He acknowledged that there may be a risk of losing 
any growth that may occur in the short term and he asked Tenet to action his request 
ASAP.
Mr C contacted A directly around 3 March 2020 and asked if his request could be acted 
upon any sooner. A said that ten days was the standard trading time for the type of funds 
that Mr Cs pension was invested in (it seems the adviser was referring to working days). 
So, even if Mr Cs adviser instructed A that day, it was unlikely the disinvestment would 
happen before about 16 March 2020. Noting that it hadnt yet received an instruction from 
Tenet to proceed with the disinvestment, A suggested Mr C might want to contact Tenet 
directly to discuss the matter.
Tenet wrote to Mr C around 8 March 2020 (it seems its letter was sent by email the 
following day), setting out points that had apparently already been discussed by phone. It 
noted the following:
Keeping his funds in cash may mean Mr C missed out on vital market increases 
once the global pandemic was over and markets returned to normal.
The value of the fund will be eroded by inflation, platform charges, cash fund 
charges and ongoing adviser charges that would be taken from the pension.
Once an instruction to disinvest funds had been applied it could take ten 
working days for investment funds to be sold down into cash.
Any decisions to move his pension into cash would be Mr Cs alone and 
wouldnt be Tenets recommendation. It also pointed out that hed been made 
aware of the disadvantages of doing so, despite which he still wished to 
proceed.
In an email sent to Tenet on 9 March 2020, Mr C said he understood his financial 
adviser didnt have access to his investment platform, so wasnt able to action his 
request (the financial adviser later confirmed they had been able to access Mr Cs 
account on 9 March 2020). Mr C said his pension fund had already fallen by about 
£38,000 and so he felt let down by Tenets service. He said he paid a fee for his fund 
to be managed, so he hoped it had been transferred before another huge fall in the 
markets that day. Mr Cs pension fund was eventually disinvested into cash on 13 
March 2020 (following the instruction A received from Tenet on 9 March 2020) by 
which time he said it had again reduced in value by a significant margin.
Mr C later complained to Tenet. It didnt uphold his complaint. Amongst other things it 
said that Mr Cs written instruction was sent on 28 February 2020 (although its letter 
incorrectly said 28 March 2020) stating he wanted the whole of his pension fund to be 
transferred into cash. And it then contacted Mr C by email, on 9 March 2020, outlining 
that it wouldnt recommend he went ahead with this transaction, but Mr C wanted to do so 
in any event (it seems Mr C had in fact already made his position clear during a telephone 
call around 24 or 25 February 2020). It said it then processed his request and the 
transaction was completed on 13 March 2020. Tenet said it was typical for it not to 
process such requests immediately, without first considering if it was in the customers 
best interests to proceed - particularly as to do so without carrying out due diligence could 
present problems down the line. In any event, Tenet said carrying out the appropriate 
investigations took time, especially when allowing for the financial advisers existing 
commitments. And, as markets had rebounded since Tenet advised Mr C not to proceed, it felt its advice was right in the first place. It also felt there was no guarantee Mr Cs 
instruction could have been acted upon any sooner, as it was largely dependent on how 
quickly A processed it.
Mr C complained to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. He 
concluded that there had been an unreasonable delay on Tenets part when acting 
upon Mr Cs instructions. As such, the investigator felt that Tenet was responsible for 
some of the loss that Mr Cs pension suffered. He noted that Mr C gave his written 
instruction on 28 February 2020 and, whilst he didnt think it was reasonable to expect 
that instruction to be acted upon that day, he said hed expect Tenet to start 
processing it the next working day (which the investigator said was 3 March 2020), 
particularly given the time sensitive nature of the request. Allowing time to review the 
portfolio and issue a recommendation, the investigator thought it was reasonable to 
expect Tenet to instruct A to disinvest Mr Cs funds no later than 5 March 2020. So, to 
put things right, the investigator recommended that Tenet compare the value of 
Mr Cs pension at 5 March 2020 against 13 March 2020 - the date the disinvestment 
was completed. He then thought Tenet should compare the pension values at those 
dates and compensate his pension plan accordingly. Mr C accepted the investigators 
assessment, but Tenet didnt.
Tenet put forward a number of arguments in response. (Given that Mr Cs complaint is 
about delay, here, Ive mainly included Tenets comments about the time it took to 
complete the transaction). It said, its adviser was being held responsible for a loss which 
wholly occurred as a result of the clients actions. It added that if Mr C had listened to 
Tenets advice not to disinvest, he wouldnt have suffered a loss. It disagreed that the time 
taken to disinvest was unreasonable. In any event, as the investigator said that Mr C was 
always likely to disinvest regardless of the advice he was given, Tenet thought he could 
have arranged the transaction himself. And it felt that Mr C must be responsible for his 
own actions. However, Tenet added that even if Mr Cs request was submitted on 
5 March 2020 it would likely have taken up to ten days for it to be processed, as A still 
needed to take certain action. So, it thought there was no guarantee the disinvestment 
would have happened any earlier than 13 March 2020.
Our investigator sent Tenets comments to Mr C to consider. And he then took account of 
Mr Cs and Tenets responses before issuing a follow up assessment. However, he said 
his view hadnt changed overall. In response, Tenet said, amongst other things, that it 
shouldnt be penalised for trying to help Mr C even though it didnt form part of the 
standard agreement with him. It still didnt accept the investigators assessment and 
asked for an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh. So, its been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional findings
I sent Tenet and Mr C my provisional findings on 2 November 2021. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below. 
Ill make clear here that Ill only be commenting on Tenets actions as opposed to 
third parties such as the pension administrator. And my decision will focus on 
whether Tenet delayed in acting upon Mr Cs instruction rather than on any advice it 
gave him.
And, having thought about Mr Cs position and what I see as Tenets role in these 
particular circumstances, Im intending to reach a different view to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Mr C insists that Tenet is at fault for not acting upon his instruction to disinvest his 
pension into cash much sooner. And as the value of his fund subsequently dropped, he 
thinks Tenet should reimburse any losses his pension fund later suffered.Mr C initially met Tenet in connection with reviewing his existing pension arrangements 
with a view to accessing a tax-free lump sum. And having then recommended that Mr C 
switch his pension to another plan, I can see that part of the ongoing service agreed was 
for Tenet to review Mr Cs portfolio annually.
Theres no evidence to suggest Mr Cs contact with Tenet in February 2020 was part of 
the annual review process, nor was he looking to discuss his annual income drawdown at 
that particular point either. Those were things that Mr C appeared intent on doing later on. 
So, its clear that Mr Cs request to transfer his pension into cash was an ad-hoc request 
made outside of the normal terms of the agreement with Tenet. But those terms also make 
clear that Tenet could give ad-hoc advice as needed.
I also need to bear in mind here that Tenet isnt the pension administrator. So, it couldnt 
simply disinvest Mr Cs pension funds into cash as he wanted. Only A, as the pension 
administrator, could do that. As a regulated financial adviser, part of Tenets role was to 
give Mr C financial advice  whether as part of their existing agreement, or on an ad-hoc 
basis. And any advice it gave Mr C would be subject to the usual due diligence required 
by the regulator to ensure that any transaction completed was in Mr Cs best interest and 
was in keeping with his aims, objectives and attitude to risk. Or it could act upon an 
instruction from Mr C, again, providing it was felt to be in his best interest.
Its evident that Mr C was closely tracking fund values around the start of the global 
pandemic. And from what he said about values rapidly reducing, its clear he wanted to act 
quickly to disinvest his pension into cash  irrespective of any short-term loss to fund 
growth. So, it seems that he thought Tenet should act upon his instruction straight away to 
avoid any further losses to his fund value. I can appreciate why he might think that. But 
bearing in mind Tenets responsibilities, even if it wasnt giving him specific advice, I still 
think it needed to think about whether acting upon any instructions Mr C gave was in his 
best interests. And its also apparent that Tenets process is one where, even if its 
indicated by phone that it doesnt think the transaction is right for the customer (as it 
appears to have done when speaking to Mr C by phone in late February 2020) it follows 
things up by setting out its concerns in writing before then acting on the instruction. 
Presumably thats to make sure theres a written record of its response - particularly when 
that response appears to go against what the customer wants. Allowing for these things to 
happen, I dont agree that the time taken overall was excessive. And I can see that, having 
contacted A on Mr Cs behalf, complete disinvestment happened four days after Tenet 
sent the instruction to A. Its also worth saying again that when Mr C contacted A on 3 
March 2020, it said it could take up to 16 March 2020 for the process to be completed. So, 
even if Mr C had instructed A directly on that day, theres no guarantee things would have 
happened any sooner. For all of the reasons Ive set out, I dont agree that Tenet caused a 
delay. So, it follows that I dont think it was responsible for any subsequent loss that 
Mr Cs pension fund then suffered.
Having said all of that, I do think that Tenet could have managed Mr Cs expectations 
much better than it did by explaining the process it had to go through. And Mr C would 
likely have been better informed about what was likely to happen. He may even have 
decided when he contacted A in early March to directly instruct it to dis-invest his funds. 
And I think Tenets failure to properly manage Mr Cs expectations is likely to have been a 
source of frustration. In those circumstances, Im intending to say that Tenet should pay 
Mr C £200 compensation to reflect the impact of that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tenet said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr C sent me a number of detailed comments to consider. Whilst Im not intending to 
summarise them all here, they broadly fall into two key areas:the advice package Mr C received from Tenet;
Mr C says he was advised to pay higher fees so that he received a more extensive service. 
And, according to its financial planning report sent in May 2019, Tenet specifically noted that 
Mr C wanted his investments to be managed on an ongoing basis with regular monitoring 
etc.  However, throughout the process, Mr C didnt think hed received such care and 
attention  in fact, hes concerned that between June 2019 and late February 2020, he 
hadnt had an adviser assigned to his investments. Mr C says hes since been promised a 
more hands on service from his new adviser and that, Tenet over promised and 
underdelivered.
the time it took Tenet to action his requests;  
Mr C thinks that Tenet is using due diligence and 10 working days (to transfer) as excuses 
to cover up its negligent handling of his investments. Not least because he says that once 
the adviser had access, she was able to action the transfer within 4 working days.  Hes also 
described its handling of things as extreme incompetency. Mr C again described the 
heated discussion he had with the adviser and how hed explained he was looking for a 
safe haven for his investments for a few months. He says the advisers response was 
along the lines that everyones losing money at the moment and markets would eventually 
recover in 3 to 5 years. However, five days later, Tenet asked Mr C to put his transfer 
request in writing. 
Mr Cs also said at no time did Tenet advise him he could contact A directly. 
In his closing comments to me Mr C said he cant understand how I could only partially 
uphold his complaint and feels I should be asking Tenet for evidence of the due diligence it 
was carrying out. Finally, Mr C said he found my provisional compensation award of £200 
insulting. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes all of Mr Cs comments in response to my provisional findings.  
Several of the points hes made refer to his general discontent about Tenets oversight of his 
investments. And its clear that Mr C doesnt feel theyve had the due care and attention that 
Tenet promised him.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling, its not my role to carry out a widespread 
review of Tenets actions. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to comment on many of the wider 
points Mr Cs made - particularly as Tenet doesnt appear to have had the opportunity to 
address them. On that basis, any comments I make here will be directly relevant to my 
provisional findings, or where I think additional clarification might be helpful.
As I said above, Mr Cs expectation was that Tenet monitored his investment portfolio with 
due care and attention. I can appreciate that  not least because Mr C was paying for a 
service and had a significant sum invested. But, as I said in my provisional decision, even if 
it wasnt giving him specific advice, I still think it [Tenet] needed to think about whether acting 
upon any instructions Mr C gave was in his best interests. In other words, the due care and 
attention that Mr C expected applied equally to his request to disinvest his pension into cash 
 particularly as the evidence suggests Tenet had apparently already told Mr C it didnt think 
it was a good idea. In those circumstances, whilst Mr C may not agree, I think its due 
diligence included being able to properly reflect on what Mr C wanted to do before formally responding. And as Ive also indicated, having received a written request from the customer, 
Tenets process was clearly to formally respond in writing  particularly when its advice goes 
against what the customer wants to do. So, that also needs to be factored into the process 
and the time it took. Taking all of these things into account, Im still of the opinion that Tenet 
didnt cause an avoidable delay (particularly allowing for the advisers other commitments, 
which Tenet mentioned in its response to Mr C). And I think the time taken overall was 
reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr C may not agree with me. And Im sorry to hear that he finds my 
provisional compensation award of £200 insulting. But, having carefully considered the 
comments made, Im not persuaded that anything said would cause me to change what I 
said in my provisional findings. Ive set out my final decision below.
  My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint.  And I now direct Tenet Connect Limited to pay Mr C £200 
to reflect the impact of its failure to properly manage his expectations about the process 
when it received his instruction to dis-invest his pension into cash. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman