DRN-2633227
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have charged him interest on his 
credit card purchases.
What happened
Mr H made a large purchase using his Halifax credit card on 21 October 2020. He thought 
that the purchase would benefit from 56 days free interest so he was surprised when he 
received his next credit card statement and saw an interest charge of £75.24.
Mr H complained to Halifax as he wanted the interest charged refunded. He says that on a 
call on 1 December 2020, Halifax upheld his complaint to refund the interest and agreed to 
waive interest for the next three months. 
On 8 December 2020 Mr H checked his online credit card statement and saw the interest 
hadnt been refunded. He contacted Halifax who informed him they had no record that 
interest would be refunded. 
Mr H made another complaint to Halifax. Halifax said the call was on 30 November 2020, not 
1 December 2020. They said theyd applied the interest waiver on 30 November 2020 but 
there was no mention on the call that interest would be refunded. Mr H decided to bring his 
complaint to our service. Mr H referred us to the help and guidance section of Halifaxs 
website as he said this shows you have 56 days interest free on purchases. Mr H said the 
interest he was charged was extortionate and unjustifiable.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. The investigator listened to the call which Mr 
H referred to and said that the call handler didnt say that the interest would be refunded. 
The call handler said that Halifax would waive interest for three months and this is what they 
did as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator said that Halifax had charged interest as Mr H 
hadnt paid his balance off in full for the 26 October statement and that this was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Mr H disagreed with the view of the investigator and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether the interest charged has been applied correctly here. The purchase 
Mr H refers to was made on 21 October 2020 (the transaction date) and showed on his 
credit card statement which was dated 26 October 2020. Mr H would have until 20 
November 2020 (the due date) to pay the full outstanding balance to benefit from up to 56 
days interest free on the purchase. But, looking at his payments made before 20 November, 
the payments made were less than the outstanding balance so interest was correctly 
charged in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card.
Mr H has referred us to the help and guidance section of Halifaxs website which he says he 
shouldve had 56 days interest free on his purchases. Ive looked at their website and it 
shows the following:
Purchase rate
The interest youll be charged when you use your credit card to buy things. Normally youll 
have an interest-free period of up to 56 days if you pay the balance in full by the due date. 
Otherwise, interest is charged from the transaction date.
Although Mr H paid his previous months outstanding credit card balance, that would entitle 
him to up to 56 days interest on the purchases from his previous statement only and not 56 
days on new purchases from the date of the previous statement. 
Having listened to the call Mr H made on 30 November 2020, Im satisfied that Halifax did 
what they said they would  waive the interest for three months but the call handler didnt tell 
Mr H that there would be any refund of interest charges.
Ive noted the strong feelings Mr H has about the interest rate which Halifax applied to his 
account. Looking at Mr Hs credit card statements its clear what the interest rate is on 
purchases and Halifax actually reduced their interest rate on purchases in April 2020. So I 
cant say that Mr H would be unaware of what interest would be charged if he didnt pay off 
his outstanding balance in full each month. 
As a gesture of goodwill Halifax agreed to waive interest for three months and I think this 
was fair considering the interest they charged was correct. So it follows that as Halifax 
havent made an error with how theyve applied the interest I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman