DRN-3476984
The complaint
Mr K complains about an investment called the Woodford Income Focus Fund (WIFF) 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) promoted to him and which he 
invested in. 
What happened
Mr K had a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with HLAM. In May 2018 he invested just 
over £2,500 in the WIFF as a result of it being on HLAMs Wealth list. The WIFF remained 
on HLAMs Wealth list until June 2019.  
In October 2019 the Authorised Corporate Director (ACD) of the WIFF suspended dealing in 
the fund to protect it from an expected increase in redemptions due to the fund manager 
resigning from the fund that day. A new investment manager took over the management of 
the fund on 31 December 2019, and from February 2020 the suspension was lifted by the 
ACD. 
In June 2019 Mr K complained about HLAMs promotion of the WIFF. HLAM looked into his 
concerns, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short, it said that it had included the 
WIFF on its Wealth list because of the fund managers strong record. It said that it believed 
in the long term prospects of the fund  but equally explained that Mr K invested in the WIFF 
of his own volition and without advice from it. It said that its opinions on the WIFF were 
properly held and had been based on its own due diligence. However, it explained that 
investing carried risks of capital loss and there were no performance guarantees. 
Mr K remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said that HLAM gave its view on investing in the WIFF by virtue of its inclusion on the 
Wealth list, and he accepted that Mr K had clearly relied on HLAMs view of the fund before 
investing. However, the investigator said that Mr K was never advised to invest in the WIFF, 
nor did HLAM provide any guarantees about how the WIFF would perform in future. 
He also noted that HLAM did also provide some commentary on periods when the WIFF 
wasnt performing as well, and the investigator felt that HLAMs communications in that 
regard were fair clear and not misleading. He explained that HLAM was entitled to believe 
that performance of the WIFF would improve, but it never stated this as fact or as a 
guarantee. 
Finally, the investigator explained that the WIFF and the Woodford Equity Income Fund 
(WEIF) were different, and had different strategies, even though for a time they were 
managed by the same fund manager. 
Importantly, the investigator explained that the WIFF did not invest in unquoted companies, 
and therefore the suspension of the WIFF was not related to that, but purely related to the 
fund manager resigning and the potential impact this might have on outgoings from the fund.  
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He said that insufficient regard had been given to the inclusion of the WIFF in HLAMs 
Wealth list  and although he accepted that he did not receive advice from HLAM, he felt 
that HLAM was getting away with putting pretty well anything on their site to promote funds. 
He said that he believed HLAM had a responsibility to ensure their promoted funds are 
sound investments by continual monitoring and evaluation. 
He said that HLAM didnt do this and was consequently negligent. He also said that whilst 
he understood the differences between the WIFF and WEIF, all funds suffered as a result of 
being Woodford and HLAM wouldve been aware of this, and the likely effect on all 
Woodford funds if problems were to arise. He said that this was a real danger where the 
funds are so heavily promoted on the previous performance of an individual manager. 
Mr K maintained that the poor performance of the WIFF was due to the collapse of the 
WEIF, and HLAM continued to endorse his products far longer than it should have. He said 
that the loss he sustained on the WIFF was a direct consequence of HLAM not being 
proactive in the review/recommendations of Woodford products. 
He said that HLAMs objective appeared to be to maximise its own profits and not minimise 
its customers losses, and this is what it did by including the WIFF on the Wealth list for as 
long as it did. 
HLAM agreed with the investigator, but provided some additional comments. In summary it 
said:
It reiterated that the Wealth lists were not personal recommendations, and it never 
gave advice to Mr K to invest in the WIFF. It said that the purpose of the Wealth lists 
was to assist investors in their research. 
HLAM also highlighted the fact that Mr K couldve disinvested from the fund as soon 
as it was removed from the Wealth list in June 2019, because at that point dealing in 
it was not suspended. However, he chose not to do so and remained invested. 
It provided more detail about its reasons for having the WIFF on the Wealth list, 
including its analysis of the WIFF, the fact that it believed it was invested in sound 
companies, and its confidence in the fund manager at the time. 
It said that it retained the WIFF on its Wealth list because it believed that it would 
deliver good performance over the long term, even though it did highlight at various 
points when such performance had dipped. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks reasons for being dissatisfied with the performance of the WIFF, but I 
agree with the investigators conclusions, and for broadly the same reasons. I also dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
I should first say that Im not persuaded that HLAM had a duty to proactively advise Mr K 
about performance issues with the WIFF or provide any more communications than it 
already did. 
HLAM considered the WIFF a good long-term investment, for reasons which it has already 
given Mr K and which the investigator also covered in his assessment. However, Im not 
persuaded this amounted to a personal recommendation and Im satisfied it was never 
intended to be relied on in this way. 
Mr K was making his own investment decisions and was therefore required to decide for 
himself whether he was happy with the risks of investing in the WIFF, bearing in mind its 
stated aims, objectives and of course the fund manager. Whilst I accept that inclusion in 
HLAMs Wealth list was a consideration for Mr K, and I agree that it was reasonable for him 
to place weight on the commentary an FCA regulated firm gave him about the fund, Im not 
persuaded he was ever given any guarantees about what inclusion on the Wealth list meant 
in terms of performance. 
HLAM was required to ensure that its communications with Mr K about the WIFF were fair, 
clear and not misleading, and Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that it failed in 
ensuring that its communications met this standard. HLAM has clearly explained why it 
believed in the WIFFs potential for the future, how it reached those views and what 
commentary it gave at times when performance was disappointing  including when it 
removed the WIFF from its Wealth list following the suspension of the WEIF. 
Mr Ks submissions are particularly focused on the connection between the WEIF and the 
WIFF, and in particular the impact the suspension and subsequent failure of the former 
would have on the latter. 
In my view, the investigator has clearly and thoroughly explained the differences between 
the WEIF, which Mr K does refer to a number of times, and the WIFF, so I wont go over this 
ground again. But the key issue is that Mr K couldve disinvested from the WIFF at any point 
after it was removed from the Wealth list, particularly in view of the well publicised issues 
with the WEIF  yet Mr K didnt do this. So whilst I accept he took into account HLAMs view 
of the WIFF, clearly its presence on the Wealth list wasnt the only consideration for Mr K. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied HLAM provided Mr K with fair, clear and not 
misleading information about the WIFF in order to enable him to make his own decisions 
about whether to invest in it, and whether to stay invested. Im satisfied that he was not 
misled into investing or remaining invested, particularly given that he remained invested long 
after the WIFF was removed from HLAMs Wealth list. And Im not persuaded that HLAM 
had a special obligation to advise him of possible performance issues by virtue of the WIFF 
having the same fund manager as the WEIF. In my view these were considerations that Mr 
K was required to make as an execution only investor  and Im satisfied that any losses 
arising from Mr Ks investment in the WIFF were investment losses which HLAM had no 
responsibility over. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman