DRN-2760583
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service provided by Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
under his motor insurance policy.
 
Admiral uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
On 18 May 2020 Mr L was stopped by the police on suspicion of driving without having valid 
insurance. When he was stopped, Mr L tried to phone Admiral so that they could confirm to 
the police officer in attendance that he did have a valid insurance policy in place. However, 
Mr L says that his call was ended twice by Admiral and then when they called him back Mr L 
was told that they were unable to assist him. Mr Ls car was then seized by the police and he 
was issued with a caution under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA) for driving without 
insurance. He was also driven in his vehicle by the police to a compound some 28 miles 
away. Mr L had to take a taxi from the compound back to his home.
 
Mr L then had to take the following day off, take a taxi to the local police station to produce 
documentation and then a further taxi from the police station to the police compound to 
retrieve his vehicle. Mr L also had to pay a release fee of £170 to retrieve his vehicle.
Mr L complained to Admiral. Mr L says that Admiral subsequently admitted that they had 
made an administrative error, whereby they had erroneously removed Mr Ls vehicle from 
the multi-car policy held by his mother when it was renewed shortly before the incident. 
Admiral issued a letter to Mr L on 20 May confirming that due to an administrative error his 
policy was not in force on the date that Mr L was stopped. The letter went on to state that 
Admiral believed that Mr L was unaware of this when he was stopped by the police, and that 
while they were not able to issue a replacement Certificate of Motor Insurance for the date in 
question, they did confirm that Admiral would indemnify Mr L for the use of his vehicle on the 
date in question in accordance with the requirements of the RTA.
Admiral upheld Mr Ls complaint and reimbursed him for the £170 release fee that he paid 
(and subsequently added £10 as compensation for the payment initially being rejected by 
the bank and £0.21 for interest on the release fee paid initially by Mr L). They also paid him 
£275 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by the incident, including 
£25 for the taxi fares he had incurred.
Mr L was unhappy at Admirals response to his complaint and complained to this service in 
June 2020. The main elements of his complaint were the stress of the incident together with 
the time and cost of travelling to recover his vehicle, together with the loss of his vehicle for a 
day, which affected his ability to provide support to family members during the Covid 
lockdown. He asked that Admiral should pay him a higher sum in compensation. He also 
said that Admiral hadnt reimbursed him for all the expenses he had incurred in the incident.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She concluded that Admiral had acted 
quickly to resolve the situation and to consider and uphold Mr Ls complaint. She also 
felt that their offer of compensation (£250) was fair. She also noted that as a result of 
the investigation, Admiral had also agreed to reimburse Mr L for a further £72.50 in 
taxi fares and other costs incurred in the incident. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. His main concern was that £250 was not sufficient for the severity of the impact 
that the incident had caused him, the difficulty initially contacting Admiral and the loss of a 
day retrieving his vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mr L.
Firstly, I would like to say that I recognise that the incident would have been very 
stressful for Mr L, particularly as he was unaware of the administrative error that led 
to his being thought to be driving while uninsured. From his description of the incident 
and what he has told us about the impact it has had on him, I appreciate the distress 
that he has suffered. I also recognise the time and trouble subsequently involved in 
retrieving his vehicle.
My role isnt to question the actions of the police in stopping Mr L The circumstances of the 
incident indicate that the information the police had led them to believe that Mr L was driving 
without insurance. If Mr L has an issue with the actions of the police during the incident, and 
how they may have affected him, then he would need to make a separate complaint through 
the appropriate channels.
Looking at the sequence of events, it was unfortunate that his initial contact with 
Admiral at the time of the incident wasnt able to resolve the issue. But Ive looked at 
Admirals record and they were able to resolve the issue and respond to Mr Ls 
complaint within 48 hours, which was the timeframe within which they said they would 
resolve matters. 
Ive also looked at the record of a previous call between Mr Ls mother and Admiral 
shortly before the renewal of the policy. This suggests that she was aware Mr L would 
no longer be on the policy after its renewal three days before the incident, as Mr L 
would be taking out a separate policy. But Mr L was not made aware of this as he 
should have been. Accordingly, Admiral upheld his complaint and accepted that they 
had made an error. I agree with that conclusion. 
Having upheld Mr Ls complaint, Ive also considered what Admiral have done with 
respect to compensation and the reimbursement of out of pocket expenses incurred 
by Mr L. 
Taking the expenses element first, initially Admiral included £25 for taxi costs, based 
on what they thought was the sum involved. Ive also noted that as part of this 
services investigation of his complaint, Mr L provided our investigator with a further 
schedule of costs, including additional taxi fares and the costs of having to drive his 
vehicle back from the police compound. I note that Admiral have said that had they 
been aware of these costs at the time they considered Mr Ls complaint then they 
would have included them alongside the £25. I think thats fair and they should pay 
those costs to Mr L now, if they have not already done so. Ive also noted that Admiral reimbursed Mr L for the £170 release fee for his vehicle, together with an amount for 
interest. Ive also noted that they paid a further £10 when the payment was initially 
rejected by the bank. Again, I think thats fair.
On the issue of compensation, Ive considered carefully the circumstances of the incident 
and the impact it had on Mr L as he has described it. He clearly has suffered stress and 
inconvenience. Ive also considered that Admiral resolved the issue within the timescale they 
said they would, as well as reimbursing (agreeing to reimburse) Mr Ls expenses. Taking all 
these factors into account, I think that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount. For these 
reasons, and if they reimburse Mr L for the additional expenses he has notified to us, Ive 
concluded that Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr L the additional expenses of £72.50 as notified to our investigator.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman