DRN-2481581
The complaint
Mr T says Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance
(BPF), offered to clear his debt with them but are now pursuing him for that debt. Hed like
them to write it off because he says his health has deteriorated and he has no way of ever
paying.
Mr T has been supported and represented by a debt charity throughout this complaint. For
simplicity I will refer to Mr T in this decision.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. An extract from that 
decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with what the investigator said about the treatment of the debt. But I dont think he
was clear elsewhere in his view.
Whilst he said he wasnt asking BPF to take any action he went on to suggest did take some
action as he wanted them to cease contact with Mr D for six to twelve months. Im expecting
to formalise that approach and to ask BPF to cease contact for a year. Ill therefore set out
why Im expecting to ask BPF to do that.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Ts ill health. I understand that when his situation changed
he agreed to voluntarily terminate his finance agreement with BPF. The balance of the
account once the car was returned to BPF is what is in dispute.
did the business agree to write off the debt?
I dont think theres sufficient evidence this was the case. BPF have explained that its an
internal process to label files sent to collection as policy write off. I understand that is
confusing and may be a little misleading, but Im not persuaded there is evidence that BPF
had agreed to write off the debt. I think their position throughout has been consistent and
that they hadnt agreed to do that.
has BPFs approach to Mr Ts situation been appropriate?
When a business is told about a consumers financial difficulties Id expect them to be
sympathetic and positive and where its clear a consumer is vulnerable, as I think is the case
here, the business should be sensitive and flexible in their response to the consumers
needs.
I think BPF have been sympathetic and positive as Ive not seen that they have applied
interest or charges to the debt since they became aware of Mr Ts situation and theyve also
held on to the debt and not sold it to a debt collection company. Im persuaded theyve done
that to ensure Mr Ts situation is dealt with appropriately. Theyve also been prepared to
agree a repayment plan with Mr T.
should BPF have agreed to write off the debt?
Ive thought about whether BPF have been fair and whether, given Mr Ts ill health, they
should agree to write off the debt he owes them. I can see that BPF have considered that
option and have looked at the medical evidence. But I dont think theyve been unreasonable
refusing to write off the debt at the moment. I think its reasonable to suggest there is a
chance Mr Ts health may improve and Mr T may be able to resume payments in the future. I
very much hope thats the case.
Im also not persuaded that merely because other lenders have agreed to waive Mr Ts
debts that BPF should do the same.
But as Mr T is clearly in no position to make repayments, and as hes currently struggling
with his health, I would agree with the investigator that it would be fair for BPF to place no
pressure on him to make repayments for a time.
I understand they may need to send statements on occasion, to comply with their regulatory
commitments, but they should not contact him for the next twelve months to pursue the debt.
Thereafter I would expect them to make another assessment of Mr Ds medical condition in
order to decide whether the debt should be waived or not.
complaint handling
This isnt a regulated activity and unfortunately, whilst I understand Mr T has concerns about
the way in which his complaint has been handled, its not something we can consider.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited not to contact Mr T, other than to complete their
regulatory responsibilities, for the next twelve months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF had no further information to add but Mr Ts representatives did provide some further 
information.
They explained that Mr Ts health had deteriorated and that he would need a significant 
operation to correct a condition. They explained that he was receiving the enhanced rate of 
Personal Independence Payment as a result of his disability and that he was on the highest 
disability element as part of his Universal Credit award. 
They said that Mr Ts disposable income was under £3 per month and that as hed clearly 
never be able to repay his debt with BPF they should waive it on compassionate and 
medical grounds.
Ive thought about what Mr Ts representatives have said. Im really sorry to hear Mr Ts 
health hasnt got any better but I still dont think BPF have been unreasonable refusing to 
write off the debt at the moment. 
Whilst I know the current situation is not good I think its still reasonable to suggest there is a
chance Mr Ts health may improve, and that may lead to him being able to resume payments 
in the future. 
Putting things right
Mr T is clearly in no position to make repayments at the moment and hes currently 
struggling with his health. So, BPF should place no further pressure on him to make 
repayments and should not contact him for at least a year.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am upholding this complaint in part and telling
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited not to contact Mr T, other than to complete their
regulatory responsibilities, for the next twelve months.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman