DRN-3947821
The complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank plc are reported incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our Investigator for 
these reasons:
Ive seen evidence that Mr B repaid his outstanding balance for his overdraft in 
July 2021. Therefore, while the default still stands and should be reported on his 
credit file, I agree it should have been showing as settled since July 2021. TSB has 
acknowledged their mistake and taken steps to update Mr Bs credit file which was 
the right thing to do in the circumstances. 
Regarding Mr Bs defaulted loan account, Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
hes no longer obligated to repay what he owes. It was disappointing that TSBs 
adviser incorrectly told him he didnt have to make payments. However, the account 
history demonstrates that Mr B hasnt cleared the outstanding balance, and as such 
needs to co-operate with TSB to repay what he owes. Its for this reason I cannot 
agree that TSB have recorded incorrect information about Mr Bs loan on his credit 
file.
When TSB realised they should have recorded Mr Bs overdraft account as settled 
from July 2021, they offered an award of £100. However, Mr B doesnt think this is 
enough because he says their mistake has caused him to have applications for 
finance be declined. While I agree TSBs mistake may have impacted his credit file, I 
cant safely conclude the mistake of not noting his overdraft as settled is the sole 
reason hes had applications declined. Thats because he has other pieces of 
adverse data on his credit file which may have contributed to the difficulties hes 
experienced in obtaining credit.
Mr B has also said the £100 award doesnt go far enough to recognise the worry he 
experienced when he saw the mistake on his credit file. However, his own testimony 
explained he only reviewed his credit file around a month before he raised his 
complaint in July 2022. Therefore, he only would have been impacted by the worry 
over that month period. I must be fair to both parties, and it would be unreasonable 
for me to increase the award to recognise a period of time Mr B was unaware - and 
subsequently unable to be worried about TSBs mistake. 
TSB has sent us evidence that shows the £100 was transferred to Mr Bs account. 
Therefore, I wont be asking TSB to do anything further to put things right.
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman