DRN-1347615
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly gave him loans 
he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
Cashfloat gave Mr M 6 loans between November 2018 and June 2019. 
A summary of Mr Ms lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 08/11/2018 28/11/2018 2 £450 £287.35
2 28/11/2018 31/12/2018 3 £650 £323.91
3 31/12/2018 02/03/2019 4 £850 £337.34
4 30/03/2019 16/05/2019 4 £800 £318.78
5 29/05/2019 07/06/2019 5 £750 £236.79
6 09/06/2019 05/07/2019 4 £500 £174.48
 
Mr M complained that Cashfloat gave him multiple loans that werent affordable for him. He 
told us that whilst he was paying the loans early this was so he could borrow again, usually 
the day after, to pay other loans and rent and to buy food.
Our adjudicator thought that there wasnt enough to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have 
been provided. However, he felt that by loan 4, proportionate checks would most likely have 
shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money and spending on frequent 
betting transactions. So, Cashfloat shouldve realised it was unlikely Mr M wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay this loan  and any subsequent loans.
Cashfloat didnt accept our adjudicators view. It mainly said that:
 
all of Mr Ms loans were repaid early.
 A member of its underwriting team spoke to Mr M before authorising his 4th loan, to 
confirm the suitability of the loan.
 
The amounts Mr M borrowed from loan 4 onwards, reduced on each occasion.
 
On loan 5, Mr M stated the money was for a one-off emergency expense and loan 6 
was for the purchase of household goods. Both reasons seem reasonable and the 
money required was not for frivolous reasons.
 
Cashfloat said this indicated that Mr M was borrowing responsibly, repaying quickly and 
reducing the amount required to help fund his necessary purchases  and the lending wasnt 
unaffordable or unsustainable.
Cashfloat asked has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1 - 3 shouldnt have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including income and expenditure 
information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Cashfloat shouldnt have 
provided these loans to Mr M.
As far as I can see, Mr M hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation in relation 
to these loans so I dont think I need to say any more about them.
Looking at Mr Ms borrowing pattern I can see that he asked to take out loan 4 just 
four weeks after loan 3 was repaid. And this followed a pattern of repaying loans early and 
borrowing again  hed taken out loan 2 the same day he repaid loan 1 and loan 3 the same 
day hed repaid loan 2. This would suggest that he was having problems managing his 
money and couldnt afford to pay back what he had borrowed without borrowing again. 
So although loan 4 looked affordable on the figures Mr M gave, I think Cashfloat shouldve 
realised that his borrowing record suggested he might be struggling financially. And in these 
circumstances, I think that Cashfloat shouldnt have continued to lend to Mr M without a 
more thorough check of his circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Cashfloat told us that when Mr M applied for loan 4, one of its 
underwriters spoke to him and discussed his outgoings. Cashfloat said that Mr M confirmed 
he had settled a couple of debts and made a mistake on the amount of rent he paid - hed 
said £1000 but he actually paid £800 each month.
But I dont think that asking Mr M about his outgoings was enough. I think at this point 
Cashfloat shouldve taken steps to verify what Mr M was saying about his financial 
circumstances as they appeared at odds with his borrowing pattern. If Cashfloat had carried 
out more robust checking of Mr Ms circumstances it would likely have seen that Mr M wasnt 
responsibly managing his money. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Cashfloat 
was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have done 
this. But in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Ms 
finances at the time. And had Cashfloat looked in depth at Mr Ms finances it would likely 
have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would have 
learnt that Mr M was regularly spending on what appear to be gambling transactions. And it 
wouldve seen that it looked like he had used some of the money hed previously borrowed 
from Cashfloat to repay other short term loans that were due. 
Looking at the overall picture of Mr Ms finances, I think Cashfloat shouldve realised that 
loan 4, and any further lending, was unsustainable and shouldnt have been provided.
So Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 4 to 6.In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Cashfloat has said, 
including comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
The fact that Cashfloat declined later loan applications from Mr M doesnt mean that the 
loans it provided were correctly and fairly lent. 
Successfully repaying his loans doesnt mean Mr M managed to do so in a sustainable way. 
Borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Ms finances were 
not in a stable position.  
And whilst loan 3 was Mr Ms biggest loan, and the amounts he borrowed went down after 
loan 4, this record of borrowing doesnt suggest that he was asking to borrow because of a 
new need for a short term loan. Rather, I think this indicated that overall his financial 
circumstances hadnt improved and he had ongoing money problems. So for the reasons 
Ive explained more fully above, I still think its fair to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 4 
onwards.  
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4, 5 and 6, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Cashfloat should then pay Mr M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loans 4, 5 and 6.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 4, 5 and 6 and Western Circle 
Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman