DRN-2148481
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled his motor insurance policy 
following an accident where he was knocked off his bike. He wants his policy reinstated and 
his name removed from any national insurance databases where its been recorded. 
What happened
Mr C was knocked off his bike by a driver insured by UKI and he made a claim for damage 
to his bike, personal injuries and other losses. UKI said there were inconsistencies between 
what Mr C had told the doctor who prepared his medical report and what its investigations 
found. It thought Mr C had exaggerated his injuries. It therefore declined the claim and 
cancelled Mr Cs policy which was also with UKI. Mr C said he hadnt read the medical report 
closely before signing it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKIs 
investigation had found inconsistencies with what Mr C had told the doctor. He thought it had 
reasonably repudiated the claim due to exaggeration. And he thought it was entitled to 
cancel Mr Cs own policy due to suspected fraud. 
Mr C replied asking for an ombudsmans review. He said hed suffered significant injuries 
which he hadnt exaggerated, and he hadnt fraudulently tried to claim expenses. He said 
UKI had misread some of the evidence it had relied on to decline the claim. He said hed 
acted in good faith.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided us with medical certificates from his GP and receipts for pain killers that 
were prescribed following the accident. Ive also seen a photograph of Mr Cs bruised leg. So 
I have no doubt that Mr C was injured in the accident, and neither does UKI. What is in 
dispute is whether or not Mr C exaggerated these when he attended a medical examination 
to support his claim for personal injuries. 
The accident occurred in February 2019. Mr C didnt attend hospital, but he did visit his GP 
and he was signed off work for three weeks. He said he then paid for private physiotherapy. 
In July 2019, Mr C engaged solicitors to recover his costs from UKI. UKI asked him to attend 
a medical examination. 
Ive seen the report which Mr C signed at the time. He now says that he didnt spot one 
inaccuracy where he said he was unable to undertake dog walking for three months when it 
should have been three weeks. I think this could be viewed as an error as the amount 
claimed for to employ a dog walker was £100. 
But the main reason that UKI thought the claim was exaggerated was that Mr C had been 
taking part in sporting activities during the period when he said he was unable to do the 
following: home maintenance, bending, stretching or lifting, running and jogging. 
UKI was able to provide evidence that Mr C took part in three strenuous events in April, June 
and July 2019. Mr C told the medical expert on 17 July 2019 he hadnt been able to run for 
three months following the accident, and he said he was still restricted. 
But UKI had evidence that he took part in a race in April 2019, which was during the three 
month period. Mr C said on 17 July 2019 that the most he could run was 4km, but UKI had 
evidence that Mr C had run distances of 5km and 6.7km since the accident. 
Mr C provided an explanation for these discrepancies. He said hed already paid the entry 
fee for the first two events, which he later claimed for, and was keen to resume his sport. He 
said he didnt complete the first event, but he did run 2km. I think this is inconsistent with his 
report to the doctor that he couldnt run at this time. 
Mr C said that he completed the second event by using strong painkillers, But Mr C did 
agree that he had run further than 4km in the second event. 
Mr C said that he didnt complete the July event. But I can see that he cycled for over three 
hours and a finish time and his average speed were recorded for the event. So I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to decide that Mr C had completed this event. 
Taking this into account, I cant say that it was unreasonable for UKI to decide that Mr C had 
exaggerated his injuries and so had fraudulently exaggerated his claim. I think UKI was 
entitled then to decline to deal with his entire claim, even though Mr C had been injured and 
incurred losses. I think this is in keeping with the relevant legislation, The Insurance Act 
2015. 
UKI then cancelled Mr Cs motor insurance policy. Our approach in cases like this is to 
consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
I can see that UKI relied on General Condition 5a Cancellation which states:
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you at least 7 days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so.
 Where we suspect fraud. 
I think this is a common condition in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. And I think it is sufficiently clearly set out in the policy documents for UKI to 
reasonably rely on it. 
UKI has shown that it suspected Mr C of fraudulent behaviour. And so I think its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to cancel the policy in keeping with its terms and conditions. 
I can see that UKI sent Mr C seven days notice of the cancellation and then gave him a pro-
rata refund of his premium. So I cant say that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably. I dont 
require UKI to reinstate the policy or do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman