DRN-3318547
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
under their buildings insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr C as he dealt with the claim.
What happened
Mr C contacted AXA to make a claim for storm damage. AXA sent a contractor to assess the 
damage, but needed scaffolding to be erected to inspect the roof. The roof was then 
inspected and AXA declined the claim, as it said there wasnt evidence to show the damage 
was storm related.
Mr C complained to AXA as he said it took a long time to assess the damage and there was 
poor service. He also disagreed with the claim decline. When AXA replied, it agreed there 
had been poor service in how the claim had been handled. It offered £350 compensation. 
However, it said the decision to decline the claim was correct.
So, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim and that the compensation offered for the poor 
service was appropriate in the circumstances.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the first question. Im aware that AXA initially said there werent storm 
conditions as it checked based on the wrong address. However, when it checked the correct 
address, it agreed there were storm conditions. Ive also checked the weather around the 
time of the claim and can see there were wind speeds that would be considered to be a 
storm. So, I think the answer to the first question is yes.
Ive also thought about the second question. The specific damage claimed for related to 
some damaged ridge tiles. I think a storm could cause ridge tiles to move. So, I think the 
answer to this question is also yes.
So, Ive looked at the third question of whether storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. AXAs surveyor inspected the roof and found a range of issues that he said were 
due to wear and tear, including the dislodged ridge tiles. Im aware that Mr C didnt think the 
surveyor should have commented on parts of the roof that he said were irrelevant to the 
claim. However, I dont think it was unusual for a surveyor to give a wider assessment of the 
overall condition of the roof as part of assessing a claim. Looking at the surveyors findings 
and the photos, I think these showed there were a number of issues with the roof that had 
happened over a period of time. This included issues with the mortar for some of the ridge 
tiles. Issues that happened gradually werent covered by the policy. The surveyor also didnt 
find anything that was storm damage. Im aware that Mr C said the affected ridge tiles were 
in a particularly exposed position. But I havent seen anything to show the damage to those 
tiles was the result of a one-off storm. So, I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on its 
surveyors findings and to decline the claim on the basis of wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration.
Mr C also complained about poor service from AXA and its contractors, so Ive looked at 
this. I can see there were delays with arranging for the scaffolding to be erected and for 
someone then to inspect the roof. Mr C has also said the scaffolding part blocked his front 
door and that due to the delays in the roof inspection this was ongoing for several weeks. 
AXA accepted there had been poor service and offered £350 compensation. Looking at 
everything that happened, I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont 
require it to pay anything further.
Im aware Mr C has said the delays meant the damage got worse and meant it cost more to 
repair the damage. If this was the case, Mr C should provide AXA with evidence of this so 
that it can consider whether it should take any action. If Mr C isnt satisfied with how AXA 
responds, he can raise a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman