DRN-2422593
The complaint
Miss B and Mr K complain that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2005 Miss B and Mr K took out joint PPI when they applied for a mortgage. The policy 
covered their monthly mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Miss B and Mr K disagree. They 
mainly say that at no time was PPI discussed and it was added to their mortgage without 
giving them an option to choose and without their authority.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I've taken carefully into account what Miss B and Mr K have told us about the way they 
were sold PPI. But what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think most likely. 
Its completely understandable that Miss B and Mr K dont now recall all the details of a 
meeting that took place more than 15 years ago. But I've seen a record of a discussion they 
had with a Yorkshire Building Society advisor. This appears to show that taking out an 
insurance policy to protect their mortgage monthly repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment was something they discussed. And PPI was recommended to 
them. 
I think thats probably right because I can see that Miss B and Mr K both signed the record to 
say that it was a true reflection of the discussion regarding their mortgage and insurance 
requirements.
And Miss B and Mr K appear to have wanted the cover. I say this because Miss B and Mr K 
also completed a separate form to have PPI. They filled in their details and the amount of 
monthly benefit they required. They must have had a discussion about how they wanted to 
share the benefit because theyve agreed to split the policy benefits. 
And theyve said what type of cover they required and chosen how long they wanted to have 
to wait before the policy would pay out. And they both signed the completed form to say they 
wished to have PPI.
Yorkshire Building Society then sent them a mortgage offer which made clear that taking out 
PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage. And it said that Mortgage Payments Insurance was 
being arranged for both of them and set out the cost and benefit amounts and split. 
So it looks to me like Miss B and Mr K knew about the PPI at the time  even if theyve 
forgotten this now. 
Based on all the information I've seen, I think that Yorkshire Building Society made 
Miss B and Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
The adjudicator didnt think Yorkshire Building Society had advised Miss B and Mr K to take 
out PPI. 
But it looks to me like Yorkshire Building Society did recommend Miss B and Mr K to have 
the policy. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give 
important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure 
the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Cover was available for joint mortgage borrowers. Where both borrowers wanted the policy 
benefits they were able to split the benefit in any proportion they wanted. 
Miss B and Mr K opted for accident, sickness and unemployment cover. The policy wouldve 
paid the benefit amount theyd said they wanted for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim. Repeat claims were possible giving them long term cover. 
They took out this mortgage when they were both earning so sharing the policy benefits 
makes sense. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss B and Mr K had any other reliable means of paying 
the mortgage monthly repayments in the long term if they werent both working. 
Its noted on the record of the discussion they had with the advisor about their financial 
situation at the time: We agreed that you would have difficulty meeting your mortgage 
repayments if either of you had a prolonged period off work 
Its mentioned that they both wouldve had only 4 - 6 months full sick pay. So the policy 
wouldve paid out in full for longer than they couldve relied on their employers to pay full sick 
pay  and on top of any work benefits, giving them a useful benefit especially if they mightve 
faced extra costs as a result of illness or disability. 
And whilst I've taken into account the amount of savings Mr K has mentioned, I've seen no 
details  and theres no mention of these savings in the record of the discussion they had 
with the financial advisor.
I thinks its unlikely that a review of their financial situation wouldnt have included mention of 
a substantial five figure sum if it had been available to them at the time.
Possibly this was money that they had later on? 
Or perhaps they mightve used at least some of that money towards buying and setting up in 
their new home.
So its possible that they didnt have as much in savings at the time as they remember. And in any event, there was no guarantee when Miss B and Mr K took out this mortgage that 
they would always have savings to rely on if theyd needed to make a claim because 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Miss B and Mr Ks mortgage was a big financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the monthly mortgage repayments were 
protected even if they couldnt work. So having the policy in place wouldve given them 
peace of mind that their home was protected.  
Looking at everything I've seen and been told so far about their circumstances, I think a PPI 
recommendation was suitable for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. I dont know how much information 
Miss B and Mr K were given about this. But, it doesnt look as if Miss B and Mr K were 
affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions when they took out the policy. 
So I dont think more information about things that didnt affect them wouldve made any 
difference to their decision to take out PPI.
Miss B and Mr K were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions that applied. 
An indication of the monthly cost to have the PPI was set out on their mortgage offer  so 
I think Miss B and Mr K wouldve seen this. 
And as they chose to take out the PPI it looks like they were happy to pay for it at the time. 
They couldve cancelled the policy at any time if they decided they no longer wanted to pay 
for it. 
Looked at overall, its possible that there mightve been some failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But I think Miss B and Mr K still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been 
better informed as it gave them useful protection. 
I dont think that having better information about the policy wouldve put them off taking it 
out. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
No-one has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman