DRN-2795457
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt tell her about changes 
to the interest rate which applied to her account.
  
What happened
Ms B had an account with Nationwide. In July 2020, Nationwide reduced the interest rate on 
her account. But Ms B says she didnt receive any communication from Nationwide to tell her 
it was going to do this. She complained to Nationwide. It didnt uphold the complaint and said 
that it had sent an email to customers in April 2020, followed by a letter around a week later, 
to tell them about the interest rate changes. It said that it had reduced the interest rate 
following a reduction to the Bank of England base rate and that it had done so to ensure that 
the account remained sustainable.
Ms B wasnt happy with Nationwides response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly, so didnt ask it to do anything. But 
Ms B didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Since 
then, Nationwide has offered to pay compensation of £50 to Ms B to resolve the complaint. 
Ms B didnt accept this offer, so Im now making a final decision on the complaint. When 
rejecting Nationwides offer, Ms B raised some other concerns about the service she had 
received from Nationwide. Those issues are being investigated separately and dont form 
part of this complaint. So Im not making a decision on them here  this decision is only 
about the change to the interest rate.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs account allow Nationwide to make changes to the 
interest rate. The terms say that changes to the Bank of England base rate could lead to 
Nationwide increasing or decreasing its interest rates. The terms say that Nationwide will tell 
Ms B about such a change no less than two months in advance. And that it will tell her by 
writing to her address or in electronic format, such as email. 
Nationwide has explained that it reduced the interest rate following a reduction to the Bank 
of England base rate. I dont think thats unreasonable. And its in line with the terms and 
conditions of Ms Bs account. So I dont find that Nationwide acted unfairly by changing the 
interest rate. But I need to consider whether it acted fairly in the way it communicated this to 
Ms B.
Nationwide says it doesnt keep records of each email or letter sent to individual customers 
about interest rate changes. But its provided evidence that it planned a mailing to all 
affected customers and that this was to be sent by email between 20 and 22 April 2020 and 
by letter between 27 and 29 April 2020. Nationwide says that the mailing was sent to Ms B 
by email (rather than post) and its confirmed the email address it used, which is Ms Bs 
correct email address. 
Although Nationwide no longer has a copy of the actual email that was sent, it has provided 
a template of the mailing it sent to customers giving notice of the change which came into 
effect on 1 July 2020. Whilst I dont doubt that Ms B didnt receive the email notification, on 
balance I find it more likely than not that the email was sent to her in April 2020 to inform her 
of the change. I cant explain why it didnt reach Ms B. But, as Im satisfied that the correct 
email address was used, I cant safely conclude that it was Nationwides fault that Ms B 
didnt receive the email.
Ms B first contacted Nationwide about the issue on 16 May 2020. Shed seen on a money 
advice forum that the interest rate on her account might have changed and asked for details, 
specifically wanting to know what the interest rate was, what amount it was payable on and 
when the change took place. At that point, the change hadnt come into effect. But it was 
clear that Ms B didnt know what the rate would be or when it would change. So I think it was 
clear from her communication that she hadnt received the April email.
Nationwide responded on 25 June 2020. Its letter provided an outline of the changes. But Ms 
B didnt know what they were, despite asking for details, until that date. So, by the time she 
found out, there was less than a week left before the changes took effect. Ms B therefore 
had very little notice of the changes, even though Nationwide knew on 16 May 2020 that she 
hadnt received the notification mailing.
As I have said, Nationwide has now confirmed that the April 2020 mailing was sent to Ms B 
by email. But the final response letter of 25 June 2020 said We did contact you about the 
changes, Im sorry if a letter wasnt received, we send all our post via Royal Mail in the hope 
itll be delivered in good faith. And Nationwides follow-up letter dated 9 July said I do 
apologise if you didnt receive our communication about the change in interest rates, but as I 
have explained, Nationwide send all its letters via Royal mail postal service. All letters are 
issued in good faith on the day that they are dated. If youre having any issues receiving 
these letters, we would ask you to raise these concerns with your local delivery service.
Both these letters indicated that the mailing had been sent to Ms B by post, not email. But it 
seems that wasnt correct, and it caused confusion. Ms B had explained her vulnerabilities to 
Nationwide in her message of 16 May 2020. Its unfortunate that incorrect information was 
provided in response. And its not clear why a copy of the original notification wasnt re-sent 
to Ms B, when it was apparent from her first contact that she hadnt received it. I think that 
should have happened.
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I think Nationwide should pay some compensation to Ms B to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused. But, in making this decision, I 
also recognise that Nationwide was entitled to change the interest rate here and I dont find it 
to be Nationwides fault that the original email of April 2020 didnt reach Ms B. In the 
circumstances here, I think compensation of £50 is a fair amount.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay 
compensation of £50.00 to Ms B.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 Katy Kidd
Ombudsman