DRN-2324574
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Acorn Insurance and Financial Services Limited unfairly cancelled 
his car insurance policy on behalf of the insurer. Mr W was stopped by police for driving 
while uninsured and his car was seized.
What happened
Mr W bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Acorn Insurance in April 2019. Acorn 
Insurance dealt with the administration of the policy on behalf of the insurer, including the 
cancellation. The cover Mr W bought excluded commuting to and from a place of work.
Mr W was paying for the policy by way of monthly instalments under a finance agreement. 
He understood his agreement was that he didnt need to pay for the final two months of the 
policy year. 
On 27 March 2020 Acorn arranged for Mr Ws policy to be cancelled due to non-payment of 
the March premium, after giving notice of 14 days to Mr W. 
Mr W said Acorn had told him in a phone call that he didnt owe the final payment due in 
March 2020. He said he didnt receive notice of cancellation, so didnt know he was driving 
while uninsured. Mr W said his car was crushed after the police seized it. He wanted Acorn 
to compensate him by paying him the value of his car, which he said was £5,000. Mr W is 
very unhappy that he has to declare the cancellation to future insurers. He said he lost his 
job as he was no longer able to use his car to go to work.
In May 2020 Acorn told Mr W it had acted correctly as it made Mr W aware that the premium 
was due when it gave him 14 days notice of cancellation on 11 March 2020. It said after 
cancellation, it offered Mr W a short term policy so that he could arrange for his car to be 
released. But it said Mr W didnt pay the premium when due. When he made the payment on 
30 April 2020, Acorn called him to discuss the payment on the same day. Mr W said his car 
was being crushed, so it was too late to arrange its release. So Acorn refunded the payment 
to Mr W. 
In a follow up email on 29 May 2020, Acorn said it acknowledged incorrectly telling Mr W in a 
call on 4 March 2020 that he didnt owe the final payment. But after this call, it correctly sent 
a cancellation notice as the premium was correctly owed. So as a result, Acorn said it had 
still acted correctly by cancelling the policy due to non-payment. 
Our investigator thought that although Acorn had given Mr W incorrect information, it had 
updated Mr W of the correct position in the cancellation notice afterwards. So he thought 
Acorn had given Mr W reasonable notice to act and prevent his policy from being cancelled. 
Mr W didnt agree. Hes unhappy that the investigator didnt listen to a recording of the call 
where he was given incorrect information. Our investigator explained it wasnt necessary for 
him to listen to the call as he agreed with Mr W as to what took place. But that this didnt 
change his view, given the notice that was sent afterwards.
Mr W remained unhappy and wants an ombudsman to decide. In the meantime the 
investigator obtained a recording of the key call and other calls from Acorn. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr W bought the policy, the repayment agreement meant the final payment would be 
due on 26 February 2020, with a renewal date of 24 April 2020. But Mr W changed the 
collection dates twice during the year, to the 1st and then 7th of the following month. Updated 
payment schedules were sent to Mr W, so Im satisfied that he was aware the final payment 
under the policy was due on 7 March 2020. 
Acorn told us that on reviewing a call between its agent in their renewals team and Mr W on 
4 March 2020, Mr W was incorrectly told no further payments were due under his policy. 
Ive carefully considered the impact of Acorns error in providing Mr W with incorrect 
information here. I know Mr W feels strongly that this is evidence to support upholding his 
complaint. As he says he didnt receive the cancellation notification emails, he believes 
Acorn unfairly cancelled his policy.
Had the phone call on 4 March 2020 been the last communication between Mr W and Acorn 
or the finance company before his policy was cancelled, I would have agreed with Mr W that 
Acorn had acted unreasonably. But in this case, Acorn has provided a copy of the 
cancellation notice sent by email to Mr W on 11 March 2020. So this was after he spoke to 
Acorn on 4 March 2020. Although Mr Ws preferred communication with Acorn was by post  
due to the pandemic and staff working from home  Acorn contacted customers by email 
when possible. I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr W says he didnt receive any emails warning him that his policy would be cancelled. The 
email address on the copy letter is the same address as the one Mr W gave to Acorn  and 
us - to communicate with him. So I cant safely conclude that the reason why Mr W didnt 
receive the emails was due to an error by Acorn or the finance company. 
The cancellation notice dated 11 March 2020 was sent by the finance company and they 
explained that the monthly instalment hadnt been paid. The notice read that Mr W needed to 
make the payment within the next 14 days to prevent his policy from being cancelled. The 
letter said if Mr W didnt make payment, he would no longer be insured after 25 March 2020. 
So I think it was clearly explained to Mr W as to what steps he needed to take to prevent his 
policy from being cancelled. And this notice  along with a final notice confirming 
cancellation would happen from 25 March 2020 unless Mr W made payment that day  were 
both sent after the phone call on 4 March 2020. So while I think Acorn made a mistake on 4 
March 2020, I think it corrected the information on 11 March 2020. And I think  from the 
payment arrangements made beforehand, that Mr W correctly owed a final monthly 
instalment on 7 March 2020. 
This means I think Mr Ws policy was correctly cancelled and Im not asking Acorn to reverse 
it.
Mr W sent a number of emails to Acorn from 14 April 2020 to discuss the cancellation of his 
policy and the fact that his car had been seized by the police. 
Acorn says an agent spoke with Mr W on 21 April 2020. It doesnt have a recording of that 
call. I understand Mr W believes Acorn may be withholding information. But it has provided 
other calls. So in its absence, Ive considered the chronology and other evidence available to decide what I think most likely happened. Acorn says the agent offered Mr W a short term 
policy for the equivalent sum of the final monthly instalment as a gesture, so that Mr W could 
arrange collection of his car from police impound. This seems to be supported by the 
payment Mr W made and the follow up call on 30 April 2020 which Ive listened to between 
Acorn and Mr W.
Mr W has provided a copy of an email exchange between him and the agent on 30 April 
2020. Mr W wrote that hed paid the premium today as requested. The agent replied saying 
an agent will call Mr W back. 
In the call (provided), the agent asked Mr W if hed been able to collect his car from police 
impound. Mr W said he hadnt. He explained that he didnt think he owed the £163 hed paid 
to Acorn that day. He said that the police were intending to crush his car, so he thinks its too 
late. He said hed bought a van as he needed transport to go to work and back. So he said 
he didnt want to have to wait ages for the police to release his car. Mr W asked if the 
amount hed paid that day could be used toward a new policy for his replacement vehicle 
instead and he needed to forget about the car seized by the police, for now. 
In the call Mr W said he wanted paperwork from Acorn because he believes he didnt have 
to pay anything in March and so hes essentially made an extra payment. Mr W said he 
didnt want a record of an insurance cancellation against him as he needed a car for work. 
He concluded that he wasnt concerned about the (impounded) car , but wanted his 
insurance to carry on. Mr W said he intended to sell his car when he got it back from the 
police. 
The agent wasnt sure about the paperwork Mr W referred to and so he said hed refer back 
to another agent. 
Mr W told us that when he spoke to the agent after paying for temporary insurance, he was 
told he couldnt have a temporary policy. I havent found that to be the case after listening to 
the call. Mr W told the agent the policy was no longer needed as his car was being crushed 
and it was too late. He said that it wasnt the insurance companys fault, but he was unhappy 
with the way the police was handling the matter.
Mr Ws level of cover didnt include commuting. So in any event, I cant consider the impact 
of Mr W not being able to use his car to travel to and from work, as he didnt include this 
level of cover when he bought the policy.
On 29 May 2020 Acorn responded to Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had 
correctly cancelled Mr Ws policy. 
From the call on 30 April 2020, I think Mr W expected Acorn to provide him with a letter 
confirming the cancellation had occurred in error  and this was the paperwork he intended 
to use to make arrangements with the police.
However, I think Acorn correctly cancelled Mr Ws policy due to non- payment. Although it 
made an error in a call on 4 March 2020, immediately before Mr W was transferred to the 
renewals team, another agent had confirmed the final payment was due in March 2020. And 
I think Acorn and the finance company gave Mr W clear and reasonable notice on 11 March 
2020 and 25 March 2020 that the payment was due before cancelling his policy. 
I understand how disappointed Mr W is with Acorn. And I appreciate that the impact of the 
cancellation has caused Mr W considerable stress and upset. But overall I think Acorn 
followed the cancellation process correctly. And so I think it treated Mr W fairly and as it 
would any other customer in his position. So this means Im not asking it to remove the 
cancellation  or reimburse Mr W for his losses.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman