DRN-2905065
The complaint
This complaint is about two secured loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in 2001 and 2003. Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 and 2003 Mr and Mrs F took out PPI at the same time as taking out a secured loan 
(the 2003 loan repaid the earlier 2001 loan.) Both sales were carried out by phone.
Both policies provided cover for Mrs F in the event she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 24 months per claim for 
accident and sickness and 12 months for unemployment. The 2001 policy cost around £28 a 
month and the 2003 policy cost a little under £25.
At the time of the sale Mrs F (as the sole policyholder) was employed and she said she was 
entitled to twelve months sick pay. She also said she could have used her redundancy pay 
as well as jointly held savings to make the repayments on the loans if she was unable to 
work. Finally Mrs F said she had no health problems at the time of both sales.
Because Mr F wasnt covered by the policies, Ive not set out his detailed circumstances 
here.
Nationwides records show the second loan account ended in 2008.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Nationwides offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs F paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mr and Mrs F disagree with the adjudicators findings, the complaint comes to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
did Mr and Mrs F have a choice about PPI? 
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out on both occasions.
Both sales were carried out by phone and Nationwide has provided copies of both credit 
agreements sent to Mr and Mrs F after the calls for signing. Looking at these I can see that 
the cost of PPI was set out in a separate box and was described as Optional Credit 
Insurance Because of the way the agreements were set out, I dont think Mr and Mrs F 
would have been under the impression they had to have PPI.
Weve also seen an example call script from around the time of the second loan and PPI 
sale in 2003 and this shows that a consumer would reasonably have understood they had a 
choice about taking out PPI. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me that something very 
different happened in Mr and Mrs Fs case.
So while Mr and Mrs F say the policies were pushed as being a condition of the lending, Ive 
not seen enough to persuade me that this is what most likely happened. Based on the 
evidence I have set out above, I think Mr and Mrs F chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
did Nationwide advise Mr and Mrs to take out PPI?
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. Mr and Mrs F say that it did.
Having considered the available evidence including what we know about Nationwides sales 
process at the times, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that Mr and Mrs F were advised 
to take out PPI in 2001 or 2003. This means Nationwide didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right for Mr and Mrs F  but it did have to give them enough clear and timely information 
about the policies so they could decide for themselves if they were right for them.
the information  
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F understood the cost of the polices  they were clearly set out in 
the credit agreements. But I accept its possible the overall information Nationwide gave Mr 
and Mrs F about each policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I 
think they likely chose to take them out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And based on Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of each sale, it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover and she wasn't affected by 
the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those for unusual employment 
circumstances or existing medical conditions - so it seems like it would have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs F if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs F off taking out the policies. 
So Nationwide doesnt have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F all they paid for PPI.commission
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
conclusion
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said - including what they said in response 
to the adjudicators assessment of their complaint. But these points dont change my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs F are concerned that they would never have been able to claim because of the 
level of their employee benefits. But this wasnt the case. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to and regardless of any sick pay or redundancy payment Mrs F was entitled to  a 
claim would not have been means tested by the insurer.
Mr and Mrs F have also highlighted the extent of their existing means suggesting the policies 
werent needed. But Mr and Mrs Fs detailed circumstances were not considered by 
Nationwide because neither sale was advised as I set out earlier. It was for Mr and Mrs F to 
decide for themselves if they considered the policies were worthwhile and made financial 
sense. And while Ive said Nationwide might not have been clear about all of the significant 
features and limitations of cover (for example Mr and Mrs F might not have fully understood 
the limits of any one claim - 12 months for unemployment and 24 months for accident or 
sickness) I think the cost was made clear each time. I also think that Mr and Mrs Fs 
expectations about what the policies would provide  i.e. an amount to meet their monthly 
loan payment  werent too dissimilar from what the policy actually provided. 
So taking everything into account, in the circumstances I think Mr and Mrs F could have 
reasonably worked out for themselves whether the cost and benefit proposition offered by 
the policy worked for them each time and decided whether to go ahead or not. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs mis-sale complaint  so Nationwide 
Building Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so theres nothing more Nationwide Building Society need to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman