DRN-3727786
The complaint
Miss W complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided her a loan during a time that 
she was having financial difficulties and having to take out other payday loans to settle 
existing loans. Miss W says she couldnt afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
What happened
Miss W was advanced one home collected loan on 9 May 2022. Miss W borrowed £400 to 
be repaid over 35 weeks at the rate of £20 per week. Miss W has had some problems 
repaying her loan and as of 2 September 2022, £600 still remains due. 
Following Miss Ws complaint, Morses wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold 
the complaint. Miss W then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought Morses had carried out a 
proportionate check before granting the loan and these checks showed it that Miss W could 
afford the repayments. He did say, that if further loans had been granted then Morses may 
have needed to have done more, but as only one loan was advanced, he was satisfied Miss 
Ws complaint couldnt be upheld.  
Miss W didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and Ive summarised her responses 
below;
Miss W didnt think the complaint had been fairly assessed because at the time she 
had multiple outstanding payday loans. 
Morses has continued to add interest, fees and charges even though it was aware of 
her difficult financial situation.
Miss W cant afford the repayment towards this loan.
Miss W says she is being punished for the poor practices of Morses.  
Miss W says that Morses has recorded this account as a catalogue account on her 
credit file  which isnt correct. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ws 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
For her loan, Morses asked Miss W to declare her weekly income and her weekly 
expenditure. Miss W declared her weekly income was £539 and she declared weekly 
expenditure of £280. This expenditure has been recorded for rent, council tax, utilities, travel, 
credit commitments (which includes, credit card(s), loan(s) and other) as well as food.
Based solely on the information Miss W declared to Morses, it was reasonable for Morses to 
have concluded Miss W would be able to afford her weekly repayment of £20.
Morses has also said for this loan, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. It is worth saying here that although Morses 
carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a 
specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Morses received may not have entirely 
reflected the information Miss W may be able to view on the credit report that she can obtain 
and has sent to us. There could be for several reasons for this, such as Morses only asking 
for certain pieces of information such as the number of active credit accounts. But what 
Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it 
received  if necessary.  This means I havent considered the credit report which Miss W has provided. This is 
because, Morses carried out its own credit search and received the results. In that situation I 
think its entirely reasonable to see what Morses was told and saw before approving the loan, 
rather than what Miss W is now able to provide. Therefore, Im only considered in this case, 
the results of the credit search which we know Morses saw. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses, Im satisfied it was aware of some 
adverse information.  It knew that Miss W had four defaults recorded on her credit file of 
which three had been settled. But the most recent of these defaults had been recorded 
almost three years before this loan was approved. In my view, this isnt enough, on its own 
to uphold the complaint. I say because the defaults shows that in the past Miss W had 
experienced some financial difficulties but there wasnt any obvious signs that she was 
experiencing difficulties in the lead up to the loan being approved. 
Miss W also says that she had a number of outstanding payday loans at the time. Ive 
thought about this while looking at the credit check results provided by Morses. At the time 
Morses knew she had £5,717 of outstanding debt spread across 12 active credit accounts. 
The credit results also indicated that Miss Ws monthly repayments towards that debt was 
around £121, this does seem on the low side, but Miss W declared to Morses her monthly 
credit commitments were around £300 per month  which seems more reasonable.  
Morses was also told that Miss W hadnt used any form of home credit before and had only 
ever used three short term loan accounts - with one of those accounts being outstanding. 
So, Morses was on notice that Miss W had one short term loan account that needed 
repaying (which was opened two months prior to the loan). One payday loan account visible 
on a credit file, isnt enough to make me think Morses needed to do further checks.  
Morses also knew Miss W had opened one new account in the last six months and that new 
debt was only £148, so it doesnt seem, based on what Morses was told that Miss W was 
opening lots of new credit accounts, which could be a sign of someone struggling to repay 
existing loans or was reliant on payday loans.  
While there are negative indicators in Miss Ws credit check such as the defaults overall 
there doesnt seem to me, enough to show Miss W was reliant on other forms of credit and / 
or payday loans. Of course, the number of outstanding loans Morses was told about may not 
be correct but it was entitled to rely on the information it was given at the time the credit 
check was carried out. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship and there was also nothing else in 
the information Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to believe that it needed to go further with 
its checks  such as verifying the information Miss W had provided. In addition, there wasnt 
anything else to suggest the loan was unsustainable for her.
This means that while Miss W has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with copies 
of her bank statements, I dont think given what Morses knew at the time that it wouldve 
been proportionate for it to checked or reviewed her statements because there was nothing 
to prompt it to do so in the information it gathered.  
I appreciate Miss Ws concerns about the interest on the loan, and the fact that interest is 
still being added. But it is my understanding that loans issued by Morses dont quite work in 
the same was compared to a traditional loan. 
My understanding is that on the day the loan is advanced the full interest is also added to the 
balance as well. This means, for example Morses doesnt charge late fees, or additional 
interest for late payments. The cost of the credit is set at the start  and the statement of account provided by Morses shows no additional fees and interest being added to the 
balance. Miss W doesnt owe any more beyond what she was contracted to pay. So, there 
isnt any interest to freeze as such because no additional fees / charges are being added.
Given what Miss W has told the Financial Ombudsman Service it is likely some sort of 
repayment plan may be needed to help her repay the balance, but she wont be charged 
extra interest (or late fees) as a result of needing one.
Ive also reviewed the contact notes provided by Morses and the text messages that have 
been sent in by Miss W. Initially, while payments were late, when Morses contacted Miss W 
a reason was provided  such as an unexpected bill or not having access to a debit card. 
However, Morses ought to now be aware of Miss Ws financial position, and I think it would 
be fair for both parties to discuss a way forward  now a decision has been made on the 
affordability of the loan. 
Finally, Ive looked at the credit file Miss W but only to see what Morses has record. Ive 
done this because Miss W has said this Morses loan is being recorded as a catalogue 
account on her credit file. Ive located the entry for Morses, and I can see this loan record is 
being recorded as Home Lender. Which I consider to be an accurate description of the type 
of product that Morses provides. 
An outstanding balance does remain due to Morses and I would remind Morses of its 
obligation to treat Miss W fairly and with forbearance. 
Miss W has provided evidence of recent health problems and has said that due to other 
loans and the cost of living she cant afford to repay what she owes Morses. These are 
circumstances which Morses will need to take into account while working with Miss W. But I 
leave it to Miss W and Morses to discuss a fair way forward.  
So, taking everything into account Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about her loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman