DRN-3497456
The complaint
Mr R complains, on behalf of the estate of the late Ms R, about how National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) dealt with Ms Rs Index Linked Savings Certificates following her 
death. 
What happened
Ms R held a number of savings accounts and investments with NS&I. In 2020 she sadly died 
and Mr R was appointed one of the executors of Ms Rs estate, along with five others. He 
wrote to NS&I to request payment of Ms Rs Fixed Interest Savings Certificates and 
Premium Bonds. And in response NS&I also cashed out some Index Linked Savings 
Certificates Ms R held with it, that hadnt yet reached maturity. 
Mr R raised the error with NS&I and it said it would be able to reinstate the certificates if the 
cheques were returned. However it subsequently said this wouldnt be possible in Ms Rs 
name. Instead it said it could reinstate the certificates in one of the executors names and 
backdate this to the date they were encashed. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this. He said there were six executors and wanted the certificates to 
either be split across all six names or put back into the name of Ms R. He made a complaint.
NS&I upheld his complaint as it agreed it had incorrectly encashed the certificates and given 
incorrect information about being able to reinstate them. It offered £150 compensation to 
make up for the errors. However it said it wouldnt be able to reinstate the certificates in the 
name of Ms R and could only put them in the name of one of the executors.
Mr R was unhappy with this response as he said NS&I hadnt been able to show him where 
in its terms and conditions it said these requests werent possible. He brought the complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said that it was reasonable NS&I cant list every eventuality in its terms and conditions but 
this doesnt mean that anything not listed is possible. And she thought it had offered a 
reasonable solution that would mean Mr R, and the other executors of the estate, didnt lose 
out financially so she didnt think NS&I should do any more.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, its first for me to decide if the business in question has got 
something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should do to put things right in order 
to put its customer back in the position it would have been in if it hadnt 
Here, NS&I has accepted it got something wrong. It misunderstood Mr Rs original request 
and encashed three saving certificates, when he wished to leave the accounts in Ms Rs 
name. So Ive considered whether its done enough to put things right.
I understand its Mr Rs wish that the certificates are either put back into Ms Rs name or split 
them between the six executors of the estate. NS&I has confirmed that this isnt something it 
is able to do. And it isnt the role of this service to force a business to change its processes. 
So I cant say that this is unreasonable. 
However we would expect that Mr R and the other executors of the estate to be caused no 
financial detriment due to its error. NS&I has offered to reinstate the certificates and 
backdate them to the date they were encashed. This means that when they reach maturity 
they can be cashed out at the same value as they would have been if NS&I hadnt done so  
early. And, at this point, the money could be divided between the estate, as would happen if 
they had remained in Ms Rs name as intended. This means the estate would be in the same 
position it would have been if the error hadnt occurred. Further, NS&I has offered Ms Rs 
estate £150 compensation to make up for the error it made and any inconvenience this has 
caused. So I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution and its done enough to put things 
right.
Mr R has said that NS&I hasnt been able to provide anything from its terms or staff 
guidance that says his requests wouldnt be possible. So doesnt believe he is being treated 
fairly. However I dont agree this is unreasonable. It isnt possible for financial businesses to 
provide an exhaustive list of what it can and cant do in relation to its products. So just 
because its terms dont explicitly say it wouldnt be able to reinstate an account in the name 
of someone who is deceased, doesnt mean it is able to do so. So this doesnt persuade me 
that NS&I have acted unreasonably here.
Based on this, Im satisfied that while NS&I has made an error, its offered a reasonable 
solution to put Ms Rs estate back in the position it would have been in had it not. So I think 
its done enough to resolve the matter fairly and reasonably and I wont ask it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman