DRN-3390454
The complaint
Mr B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb (UK) Limited has caused 
him to lose money by carrying out a transaction twice.
What happened
Mr B has a share dealing account with IWeb. On 4 August 2021 Mr B placed a trade at 
10:52am to purchase 700 shares in Company S. Mr B said he was presented with an error 
message telling him the service was unavailable. Mr B said he saw his cash balance hadnt 
reduced so proceeded to place the trade again at 10:53am. He then discovered both trades 
had gone through.
Mr B phoned IWeb and asked it to rectify the issue. He said he was told to hold on to the 
shares until the price increased and then to sell, but Mr B says he felt this was too risky and 
asked IWeb to sell the surplus shares. It offered to do so, commission free, and when this 
was done Mr B had lost £82.34 due to a difference in share price. Mr B wanted this back.
IWeb said it hadnt made an error. It said its terms say that when a customer isnt certain a 
trade has gone through, they must phone to confirm the position before proceeding with 
placing the trade again. As Mr B didnt phone IWeb before making the trade again, it doesnt 
feel its liable for his losses.
Our Investigator felt that IWeb should compensate Mr B for his losses. She explained that 
whilst the terms are clear, it wasnt unreasonable for Mr B to have placed a trade when hed 
checked his cash balance hadnt decreased. She felt it was reasonable for him to have relied 
on the error message and believe the trade hadnt been made. Our Investigator felt IWeb 
should also pay Mr B £50 for the trouble and upset it caused him.
IWeb disagreed. It said that its terms are clear in what Mr B shouldve done when there is 
uncertainty around a trade. As such, he breached the customer agreement. It said that its 
audit log suggests Mr B didnt check his pending orders and seems to have not navigated 
away from the screen to make a trade. So it didnt think Mr B had done enough to check 
whether his initial trade had gone through. It says its terms limit its liability for these issues to 
asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The customer agreement terms, that IWeb are relying on, say:
If, at any point, the flow of information between us on the online service is interrupted (for 
example, your computer or mobile device crashes, you lose network connection or you 
receive an error message), and you are not certain whether your instructions have been 
accepted or not, do not try to enter your instructions again.
It goes on to say that customers should try to log on to the online service again and check 
their account details. If they remain uncertain they should phone to confirm the position.
IWeb says this limits its liability for situations such as Mr Bs. However, Im not sure its fair to 
apply these terms here. Mr B was making a time sensitive trade. His device hadnt crashed 
and the error message said the service wasnt available. Whilst I can see the terms provide 
for error messages, I dont think the message Mr B saw was ambiguous. Neither IWeb or Mr 
B has provided a copy of the error message but its accepted it said the service wasnt 
available. As such, I dont think its unreasonable for Mr B to have assumed his trade hadnt 
been placed.
Mr B has told us that he checked his cash balance hadnt reduced before placing the next 
trade. IWeb produced an audit log which it says shows Mr B didnt leave the dealing page. It 
acknowledged the audit log was difficult to read and it wasnt possible to see what Mr B saw 
at the time. But from the screenshot it has provided of the dealing page, it has the amount 
available to invest on that page. So, I think its likely Mr B could see that this hadnt 
changed after the error had occurred. Our investigator queried the log entries which had the 
word error in them to get some clarification about what caused the problem. But IWeb 
responded by reasserting its position that as Mr B breached the agreement by not phoning 
before placing the trade again, it wasnt liable for his loss. It didnt explain the log entries 
except to say that Mr B hadnt navigated away from the dealing page.
The terms are clear about what a customer should do when they arent certain whether the 
instructions have been accepted or not. But Mr B saw a message to say the service was 
unavailable and saw his balance on the dealing page hadnt reduced. I dont think that its 
unreasonable for him to believe his transaction hadnt gone through and have attempted the 
transaction again without phoning given hes told us his balance hadnt reduced.
As such, I think its reasonable for IWeb to cover Mr Bs losses in this event for the error 
suggesting the transaction hadnt gone through due to the unavailable service. I also think 
that the shock of the transaction having gone through despite the error message suggesting 
it was unavailable wouldve caused Mr B some distress, as well as inconvenience in having 
to rectify the situation.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb (UK) Limited must do the following:
- Pay Mr B the money he lost at having to sell the shares he bought due to the error  
hes specified this as £82.34.
- Pay interest on this amount at 8% simple per annum from 4 August 2021 to the date 
of settlement
- Pay Mr B £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
If Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb (UK) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb (UK) Limited must 
follow the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman