DRN-2473375
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has
handled a claim under his home insurance policy after his house was subject to an escape
of water.
What happened
In December 2016, an escape of water occurred from a hot water pipe in the floor/ceiling
void above the ground floor bathroom in Mr Cs home. He made a claim under his policy
which RSA accepted. However, in trying to prepare the property for reinstatement, RSAs
contractor unfortunately over-dried the property and this caused significantly more damage
than had the original escape of water.
Mr C became unhappy with the way the claim had been handled. He complained to RSA. It
issued a final response letter on 12 July 2017 accepting that it had been at fault in various
ways and offering £800 compensation.
Mr C didnt accept this offer. He referred his complaint to us. In June 2018, the ombudsman
issued a final decision upholding the complaint and awarding Mr C a further £200
compensation.
Meanwhile, Mr C continued to be unhappy at the way RSA was handling the claim. In
January 2019, he made a further complaint to it in which he detailed various problems hed
experienced with it and its contractors. He pointed out that hed had to live away from his
property for eighteen months while repairs had been carried out and although hed now been
back in his home for over six months there were still outstanding issues. He considered that
if the claim had been handled correctly from the start, it should have been completed within
three months. He asked for £50,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed
been caused, along with a payment of £1,628 to reimburse him for council tax and water
utility bills hed paid in respect of his property while he was living away from his home.
RSA issued another final response letter on 20 March 2019 in which it addressed the various
concerns raised by Mr C, except those which it considered had already been addressed by it
and this service in his earlier complaint. It noted that some of the issues had now been
resolved and that progress was being made to resolve those which were outstanding. It said
that it had met the full cost of Mr Cs alternative accommodation during the period the
property was uninhabitable and, since he would normally have had to meet the council tax
and water bills, it didnt agree that it should reimburse him these costs. However, it accepted
that he had been provided with a poor service for which it offered him £1,500 compensation.
Mr C was unhappy at RSAs response. He considered it had not fully addressed and/or had
trivialised many of the concerns he had raised. He referred his complaint to us. In addition to
the financial compensation to which he thought he should be entitled, he asked that RSA
provide him with a ten year warranty for the repair works it had carried out as he considered
it was RSAs contractors who had caused the vast majority of the damage.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
Let me clarify the scope of this complaint. RSA issued a final response letter on 
12 July 2017 dealing with Mr Cs complaint about matters up to that date. He referred that 
complaint to us and it was subject to an ombudsmans final decision. I am not going to re-
visit those matters. This decision is therefore in respect of events between 12 July 2017 and 
20 March 2019 which is when RSA issued its final response letter on this complaint.
The escape of water which gave rise to the claim occurred in December 2016. Shortly after
the incident occurred, RSAs loss adjuster visited the property to assess the damage. The
loss adjuster drew up a plan of how it anticipated the claim would be handled. According to
this plan, the repair work would be completed by the end of March 2017 which was
approximately three and a half months following the incident.
I recognise that this was a preliminary plan and that claims can often take longer to resolve
than expected, through no fault of the insurer. For example, the damage may be more
extensive than was initially thought or the repair work may prove to be more complicated due
to the specific features of the property.
In light of the above, I cant be sure how quickly Mr Cs claim may have been resolved if
RSA had made no mistakes, in particular if it had not over-dried the property. However, even
allowing for unforeseen difficulties which may have been outside RSAs control, it seems
reasonable to say that the repairs should have been completed and the claim concluded
within seven months  in other words, by the time that RSA issued its final response letter of
July 2017. This means that any inconvenience which Mr C has suffered because of the claim
since that time is purely down to RSA; it cannot be put down to the original escape of water
incident.
Mr C has gone into detail about a number of matters where he feels RSA and its contractors
were at fault. I have taken all his comments into account though Im not going to address all
those matters individually.
Im satisfied that, except where Ive highlighted below, RSA has now satisfactorily resolved
those issues where Mr C has suffered loss or damage. These include, for example, in 
respect of his mattress, picture frames, carpets and curtains. However, I recognise that
dealing with these issues would have caused Mr C some stress and inconvenience, for
example having to briefly live without curtains on the windows.
Mr C was forced to live in hotel accommodation from July 2017 (I am not taking into account
any earlier period because it was covered by the previous ombudsman decision) until 
June 2018. This is an eleven month period. I recognise that Mr C wasnt having to pay for 
this accommodation but I nonetheless consider it would have been a considerable
inconvenience for him. He has also pointed out that on several occasions, including over the
2017 Christmas and New Year period, he had to briefly move to another hotel due to
overbooking and I consider that these instances would have added to his inconvenience.
When Mr C did move back into his property, there remained various snagging issues, some
of which were still dragging on when RSA issued its final response letter in March 2019. For
example, there was an area of the loft where the insulation hadnt been replaced and which
Mr C said made it more difficult to keep his house warm. I consider that these issues would
have continued to cause inconvenience to Mr C, albeit this was likely to be less than that he
experienced during the period he was forced to live away from the property.
Mr C has also highlighted numerous examples of poor communication and sometimesrudeness on the part of RSAs staff and contractors. I consider this would have caused him
some frustration and upset. Mr C has expressed concern that RSAs response has simply
been to offer him compensation rather than take appropriate action in respect of the people
concerned. I should point out that our role is to resolve the complaint between Mr C and
RSA which, in this case, is determining the appropriate level of compensation. The issue of
how RSA should manage its staff and contractors is a matter for RSA to decide.
There is some dispute over whether the property was subject to a proper clean before Mr C
moved back in. Mr C says that three people arrived to carry this out on 5 June 2018 but left
without doing so because of confusion over what was required. The loss adjusters notes
indicate that Mr C told the people there was no point in doing the clean at that time because
there was still outstanding work. RSA says the clean was carried out during the next few
days but there is no mention of this in the loss adjusters file. However, by the same token
I can see no indication that Mr C made any complaint about the cleanliness of the property
when he moved in and he didnt incur any expense by appointing his own cleaner. While it
might be the case that the property wasnt professionally cleaned by outside contractors, Ive
no reasonable grounds for saying it was left in an unacceptable state. I dont consider that
Mr C has shown there was a clear failing by RSA which warrants compensation.
After taking into account all the above matters, particularly the fact that Mr C was forced to
vacate his home and live in a hotel for a period of eleven months entirely because of RSAs
failings, I am minded to conclude that the proposed sum of £1,500 is not enough
compensation for the trouble and upset suffered by Mr C. I consider that a sum of £2,500 is
more appropriate.
With regard to the damaged sofa, it is difficult to know whether this damage occurred while it
was in storage. However, the repair technician apparently agreed that the damaged spring
was consistent with something being stored or laying on that spot for a prolonged period. On
balance, I consider that RSA should accept that its contractor caused this damage. And
because this is a negligence claim rather than a claim under the insurance policy, I think
RSA should pay the full cost of replacing not only the damaged sofa but also the matching
sofa which was not damaged in storage.
With regard to the council tax and water bills, I see no reason why RSA should reimburse
Mr C for these. He would normally have incurred these costs and he wasnt paying duplicate
bills while living in hotel accommodation so he hasnt suffered any financial loss. I would
have expected RSA to pay for any extra electricity and gas costs as a result of its
contractors using these utilities at Mr Cs property while he was living elsewhere but this
doesnt mean it should pay his council tax and water bills also.
Finally, I dont consider that RSA is obliged to offer a ten year warranty on the repair work.
However, as explained by the ombudsman who dealt with Mr Cs earlier complaint, RSA has
to ensure that work is done to an appropriate standard and represents a lasting repair. If
work fails, and Mr C thinks it shouldve lasted longer, he can therefore go back to RSA and
ask that it put things right regardless of whether this is within any guarantee period which
has been offered.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mr C made further comments which I summarise as follows:
He gave examples of incompetence on the part of RSAs contractors which he felt had 
contributed to the delays.
He reiterated that in his view RSA should cover the cost of his council tax and water bills during the period he was not living at his property.
He gave further details of the damage which had been caused to his sofa.
He disputed that he told the three people on 5 June 2018 that there was no point in 
cleaning his property at that time. He said no clean was ever carried out despite this 
being promised by the loss adjuster and that when he moved back in he had to clean the 
house himself with the help of a friend.
He felt that throughout the period of the claim he had been treated very poorly by RSA 
and its contractors which had caused him great distress and upset.
RSA did not offer any further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Cs examples of what he perceives as incompetence on the part of RSAs 
contractors and which caused the claim to be delayed. However, I have already said that 
I consider RSA is entirely responsible for all the inconvenience which Mr C experienced 
during the time period which this complaint covers. To that extent, the particular errors which 
caused delays dont matter because I have accepted that RSA is responsible for any delay 
and associated inconvenience, and have awarded compensation to Mr C accordingly.
I have already explained that I would have expected RSA to pay for any extra electricity and 
gas costs as a result of its contractors using these utilities at Mr Cs property while he was 
living elsewhere but this doesnt mean it should pay his council tax and water bills also. 
These are costs he would normally have incurred and so he hasnt suffered any loss for 
which he needs to be compensated. Mr C hasnt shown that his water bill increased as a 
result of the contractors use of this utility.  
I note Mr Cs explanation of the damage to his sofa and how he believes this was caused. 
However, RSA has already agreed to replace the sofa and in my provisional decision I also 
said it should meet the full cost of replacing the undamaged matching sofa. Im satisfied that 
this fairly resolves Mr Cs complaint concerning the sofa. 
Mr C disputes the loss adjusters record of what happened when three people turned up to 
clean the property on 5 June 2018. It is still not clear to me exactly what happened or 
whether the property was subject to a clean before Mr C moved back in. I note that Mr C 
says he ended up having to clean the property himself with the help of a friend. I accept that 
Mr C decided to do this cleaning but Im not persuaded that my proposed overall award of 
compensation needs to be adjusted because of this.
I note Mr Cs comments about the distress and upset caused to him by RSAs poor handling 
of the claim. I acknowledged in my provisional decision that this would have been a difficult 
period for him and that any inconvenience he suffered was entirely the fault of RSA. 
I considered that its offer of £1,500 compensation wasnt enough and it should increase this 
by a further £1,000.  
After considering Mr Cs comments in response to my provisional decision, and given that 
RSA has offered no comment, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. I still 
consider that £2,500 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset which Mr C has been 
caused and that RSA should additionally pay the full cost of replacing Mr Cs undamaged matching sofa.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr C a further £1,000 compensation, 
bringing the total payment to £2,500. I also require it to pay the full cost of a replacement 
matching sofa even though this matching sofa wasnt damaged by its contractor.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman