DRN-3368911
The complaint
Mr W complains about the cash settlement amount offered to him by Covea Insurance plc 
(Covea) following a claim he made on his household insurance.
What happened
In November 2015, a third-party damaged Mr Ws front garden wall. Mr W paid for the wall to 
be replaced and tried unsuccessfully to recover his costs from the third party. After this, in 
October 2019, Mr W made a claim for the damage on his household insurance. Covea 
initially rejected the claim but then accepted it in March 2020.
Covea made Mr W a cash offer to settle his claim but it wasnt enough to cover what Mr W 
paid to replace his wall. Mr W says he needed to ask Covea a number of times for 
information to help him understand the settlement amount because the costing document 
Covea sent him was so technical as to be unintelligible. When Covea responded, Mr W 
didnt think itd given him the information hed requested. 
Mr W sent Covea photos of the damaged wall and its replacement. He sent it reports from 
his builder and from an estate agent which he said confirmed the wall needed to be replaced 
rather than repaired. He told Covea it should pay him £3,036, which is what itd cost him to 
replace the wall.
In June 2020, Covea issued its Final Response Letter (FRL) to Mr Ws complaint. Covea 
said Mr Ws builders report confirmed the wall needed to be rebuilt because of damp and 
frost damage, which Covea said wouldve occurred gradually and so was excluded from 
cover. It said its cash offer of £1,651.58, minus Mr Ws policy excess, was based on what it 
would cost Covea to repair the damage to the wall caused only by the incident. The FRL 
said as well that because less than 50% of the wall had been damaged by the third-party, 
Coveas cash offer - which was more than 50% of Mr Ws costs - was fair. 
Mr W was unhappy with Coveas final response. He told Covea some of the assumptions itd 
used in its FRL were invalid. He said he was unhappy with the delay thered been in sending 
him the information that hed asked for which included a copy of his policy documentation -  
and that Covea should settle his claim for between £2,451.62 and £2,640.53
Covea referred the matter to its expert who said the wall couldve been repaired rather than 
replaced. He said the photos showed the brick work had only dislodged and that mortar had 
split cleanly way from the bricks, so the bricks couldve been reused with any shortfall made 
up from reclaimed or new bricks. Coveas expert said new foundations were not required to 
facilitate the repair and that Coveas offer represented more than 50% of the cost of work the 
Mr W carried out, which was fair. But Covea agreed to waive Mr Ws £200 policy excess as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mr W disagreed with this assessment. He said that three builders had said the whole wall 
needed to be replaced because bricks couldnt be salvaged and said thered have been an 
unacceptable contrast if only the damaged bricks had been replaced.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. He said Covea hadnt provided adequate information on 
the salvaging of the bricks or the proportion of bricks that were damaged. He said hed told 
Covea when he made the claim that it wouldnt be able to see the damage, but Covea had 
accepted the claim anyway. He said even if the old bricks could have been salvaged and 
new ones interleaved, the walls appearance wouldnt be acceptable because the bricks and 
mortar were weathered and more than 80 years old. He said Coveas cash offer should be 
£2343.79, so Coveas offer plus half the difference between what Mr W paid for the wall to 
be replaced (£3036) and Coveas offer (£1651.38). Mr W told us he felt the amount included 
a fair deduction for wear and tear and for the undamaged bricks.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint and said Covea should pay Mr Ws costs in full 
because an insurance policy is designed to put a customer back in the position theyd have 
been in had the incident not occurred. Our investigator said, if the third party hadnt 
damaged Mr Ws wall, its likely itd still be standing.
Mr W accepted our investigators view but Covea disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It noted that Mr W had prejudiced his claim by replacing the wall without its consent 
and that if Mr W had sought its consent, it wouldve been able to explain to him what would 
be covered. It said itd had to rely only on images provided by Mr W after the event. And that 
Mr Ws argument that Covea failed to provide credible evidence to support its decision was 
due to Mr W and not any failings on Coveas part.
My provisional decision 
After Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our 
investigator. Because the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both 
parties a further chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. I 
explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Ive reviewed Mr Ws policy wording. It says under the What you must not do sub-heading, 
Dispose of any damaged items until we have had the chance to inspect them. In the If you 
need to make a claim section it says to Phone the number .as soon as possible to report 
the loss or damage. They will tell you how to proceed with your claim and, For non-urgent 
repairs or replacements please follow the instructions we give you. We may ask you to get 
estimates or want to see the damage ourselves before agreeing to any work.
These terms and conditions are not uncommon and are designed to involve an insurer in a 
claim at the earliest opportunity so it can gather the information it feels is necessary to 
assess the damage, decide how it needs to be remedied and see whether any policy 
exclusions  such as damage occurring gradually or caused by wear and tear - apply. 
The above terms are expressed clearly in Mr Ws policy wording and its reasonable to think 
Mr W wouldve known about them and understood them before he replaced his garden wall. 
But Mr W contacted Covea after hed replaced the wall, so Covea wasnt given the 
opportunity to gather the information it may have wanted to about the claim.
After reviewing Mr Ws photos, Coveas expert disagreed that Mr Ws wall needed to be 
replaced. And Mr Ws builders report noted damage caused by frost and damp, which would 
have occurred gradually. Because of these things, its reasonable that Covea would most 
likely have wanted to gather further information and evidence as part of its assessment of Mr 
Ws claim. And this may even have included a site visit to see the damage for itself. But 
because Mr W made his claim after the wall had been replaced and the damage disposed 
of, Covea wasnt given the opportunity to do this.Mr W says personal circumstances and his attempts to recover his costs from the third party 
delayed him from making his claim for around four years. But despite Mr Ws personal 
circumstances, he was able to arrange for the wall to be replaced. And I cant say its 
Coveas fault that Mr W replaced the wall and disposed of the damage before he told Covea 
he wanted to make a claim.
Mr W appears to say that Covea accepted his claim knowing he only had photos of the 
damage and a builders report and so it should pay him his costs. But insurers often accept 
claims and either decline them or offer only a contribution towards the restoration of the 
damage once theyve reviewed the evidence and assessed them. So I dont think its fair to 
say that by accepting Mr Ws claim, Covea also agreed to pay Mr W what it cost him to 
replace the wall, with or without the deduction for wear and tear that Mr W feels is 
acceptable.
Mr W says Covea hasnt provided any evidence demonstrating that the bricks could be 
salvaged. But Covea wasnt given the opportunity to gather its own evidence. And neither 
was it given the opportunity to verify Mr Ws builders testimony that the bricks couldnt be 
salvaged before the damage was disposed of. So I dont think its fair to say that Covea 
needs to provide more evidence to show the bricks werent salvageable. Also Mr Ws photos 
seem to show that mortar has split away from the bricks, so I dont think its unreasonable for 
Coveas expert to conclude that the bricks could be cleaned and salvaged. And Ive not seen 
any evidence from an expert as qualified as Coveas saying differently.
Mr Ws builders report says all the lower course faces had blown and that there was 
damage to the wall which wouldve occurred gradually. Gradual damage isnt covered by Mr 
Ws policy. And by replacing the wall, Mr W was left with a wall in a better condition than the 
one he had before the incident.
So for all the reasons above, it wouldnt be fair for me to require Covea to reimburse Mr Ws 
costs in full and in line with our investigators view. Or to require Covea to pay Mr W his 
costs less the deduction he feels is reasonable for wear and tear.
Covea offered Mr W a cash settlement of £1,651.58, which I think is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ws policy wording is clear that fees incurred, which havent been agreed with Covea in 
advance, arent covered because it says, under the What is covered sub-heading 
associated costs which we agree to in advance..but not fees which you incur and we 
have not agreed in advance. Mr W didnt get Coveas agreement on the costs of replacing 
his wall, but Covea still offered to pay him £1,651.58.
Its not in dispute the incident damaged Mr Ws wall. But there was also other damage 
present that was excluded from cover. Its difficult to know with certainty what damage the 
incident wouldve caused to a wall with no pre-existing damage. But its possible it may not 
have been as bad as it was.
So I think Coveas offer of £1651.58, based on what Covea says it would cost to repair the 
wall, is fair and reasonable. Especially when:
Covea wasnt given the opportunity to investigate the claim as I think it wouldve liked 
to; 
the wall showed signs of damage that was excluded from cover; and
the photos appear to support Coveas experts conclusion that the bricks could be 
salvaged and the wall repaired.Covea agreed to waive Mr Ws £200 policy excess as a goodwill gesture and I think this is 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Mr W says he suffered.
Mr W says Coveas claims handling process lacks independence because its expert was 
involved in his claim at all stages and so had effectively reviewed his own decisions. Mr W 
also mentioned Covea recovering costs from the third party and that Covea had made a 
series of unsatisfactory judgements relating to the initial rejection of the claim. Im unable to 
comment on whether Covea should try to recover costs from the third party because this is a 
matter for Coveas own commercial judgement. And based on the evidence Ive seen and 
given that Mr W made the claim after hed replaced the wall, I think Covea has acted fairly 
and reasonably.
In conclusion, I intend not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Covea has already paid Mr W 
£1,651.58 and hasnt deducted Mr Ws excess from this amount. So I dont intend to require 
Covea to do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional findings. He provided further comments and new 
evidence he said demonstrated the wall needed to be replaced rather than repaired. Covea 
agreed with my provisional findings and its only comments related to the new evidence Mr W 
provided. 
Mr W provided a second builders quote dated 25 May 2019. Mr W also provided a report 
from a structural engineer dated 1 March 2022. He said he deliberately didnt give the 
engineer any details of the incident or show him the photos or his first builders report. The 
report says, Heather brick should not be used from salvage, and that bricks should be 
inspected to determine whether the bricks can be salvaged after damage from impact. It 
also says that if a pier is filled with concrete this will present an increased difficulty in 
salvaging the bricks. 
I invited Covea to comment on Mr Ws engineers report. It didnt change its stance. It said 
that if the bricks were not salvageable, it wouldve repaired the wall with alternative bricks 
and any decrease in the market value to Mr Ws property as a result wouldnt be covered by 
his policys terms. Covea also pointed out again that the wall showed evidence of gradual 
damage which isnt covered by Mr Ws policy terms and for which Covea is entitled to make 
a deduction for. 
Mr W also pointed to an email from Covea he says shows that photographs alone cannot be 
relied on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Mr W responded that he was unaware of the policy terms mentioned in my provisional 
decision when he made the claim. He said hed not retained a copy of his insurance policy 
documentation because hed changed insurers. My provisional decision said that the policy 
terms were expressed clearly. And from Mr Ws response to my provisional decision it 
seems Mr W received his policy documentation. So Im not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional finding that its reasonable to expect Mr W to have known about and understood his policys terms before he replaced his garden wall and made his claim. And I cant say its 
Coveas fault if he wasnt. 
Mr Ws second builders quote dated 25 May 2019 sets out the cost of rebuilding the wall but 
doesnt say why the wall needed to be replaced rather than repaired. Mr Ws engineers 
report doesnt appear to say heather bricks cant be salvaged, but rather that it can be 
difficult to do so. The engineer also says its not possible to tell if the bricks could be 
salvaged from the photos.  So its also reasonable to think that its not possible to tell from 
the photos that the bricks couldnt be salvaged either. The engineer also says bricks should 
be inspected to determine if they can be salvaged, but the timing of the claims notification 
prevented Covea  through no fault of its own - from carrying out its own inspection. 
Mr W pointed to an email from Covea he says supports his surveyors statement that 
photographs alone cannot be relied on. But the email from Covea Mr W appears to point to 
says that the photos dont prove the damage was caused by an impact and that the wall 
could have just as easily fallen over because of old age. Coveas email then goes on to say 
that this is why Covea wouldve inspected the damage had it not been prevented from doing 
so by the works being been completed prior to Mr W notifying his claim. 
So despite the new evidence Mr W provided, it still remains that the wall was repaired before 
Covea could inspect the damage. And this was because the claim was notified contrary to 
Mr Ws policy terms. It wouldnt be reasonable to say any of this is Coveas fault. And so it 
wouldnt be fair  especially when Mr Ws surveyors report isnt conclusive that the bricks 
couldnt be salvaged - for me to require Covea to pay more towards Mr Ws claim that it has 
done already. 
Mr W said in his response he had no choice but to rebuild the wall because of the opinions 
hed received from builders. But these opinions were given to Mr W and acted on before 
Covea were told about the claim. So I cant say its Coveas fault that Mr W accepted and 
acted on his builders opinions. 
Mr W said Covea accepted his claim knowing the wall had already been rebuilt and so 
should be more willing to accept the findings of his builders on the spot inspection. But 
Covea wasnt given the opportunity to carry out its own on the spot inspection. Or verify the 
testimony of Mr Ws first builder about the salvageability of the bricks. So I dont think its fair 
to say that because Covea accepted Mr Ws claim Covea should also be more willing to 
accept his builders testimony.  Mr W also said that Covea couldve rejected his claim 
because it knew it wouldnt be able to carry out an inspection. But if Covea hadnt agreed to 
assess Mr Ws claim at all, hed have received nothing at all towards his costs. So I cant say 
Covea was being unreasonable here.
Mr Ws response said that the complaint ought to be assessed on the available evidence, 
not on what might or should have been. But the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy are 
clear that damage should not be disposed of before notifying a claim. And if the claim had 
been notified in line with these terms, the available evidence would more likely than not 
include Coveas own observations of the damage. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require 
Covea to accept that the wall needed to be replaced and pay more than its offered towards 
Mr Ws costs already, when the claim wasnt notified in line with Mr Ws policys terms and 
Covea couldnt see the damage for itself.  
Mr Ws response said that the gradually occurring damage was limited to the lower courses 
of the wall, which were undamaged by the impact. And that an end post still had a long and 
remaining life. But gradual damage isnt covered by Mr Ws policy. And when Mr W replaced 
the wall, he fixed damage not covered by the terms of his policy and was left with a wall in a 
better condition than the one he had before the incident. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require Covea to increase its cash offer and so pay for damage that isnt covered by the 
terms of Mr Ws policy.
Mr W said the dominant factor preventing the bricks from being salvaged was that their frogs 
were filled with mortar which couldnt be removed without damaging them and so wear and 
tear isnt relevant to the claim. Ive already commented on why wear and tear is relevant. 
And through no fault of its own, Covea had no way of verifying for itself that the bricks could 
not be reused. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require Covea to accept that the bricks couldnt 
be reused and pay more than it already has to Mr W. 
Mr Ws response said Covea have not produced any evidence in support of their rejection of 
the builders opinion.that bricks couldnt be salvaged. They have merely offered opinions
based on photographs. Covea could have searched their files for comparable claims with
similar damage where the outcome  based on evidence  was that the bricks were
salvageable. Id already said in my provisional decision that, because of timing of the 
claims notification, I didnt think it is fair to say Covea needs to provide more evidence than 
it has to show the bricks werent salvageable. Looking back through previous claims would 
most likely take a significant amount of time compared with Covea being able to inspect the 
damage for itself had the claim been notified in line with Mr Ws policys terms. So Im not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional finding that its unfair for Covea to provide more 
evidence. 
Mr W said hed pass the right to pursue the third party back to Covea if it paid him costs in 
full. Id already said in my provisional decision that Im unable to comment on whether or not 
Covea should pursue the third party because this is a commercial decision for Covea. 
So in conclusion, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. Covea has already paid Mr W £1,651.58 towards the cost of rebuilding his 
wall and hasnt deducted Mr Ws excess from this amount. I think this is fair and reasonable 
given that the claim wasnt notified in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, 
meaning Covea couldnt see the damage for itself. So I dont require Covea to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman