DRN-4172180
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Santander UK Plc defaulted her account. 
What happened
In July 2022, Santander wrote to Miss N because the balance of her account was over the 
£700 agreed overdraft limit. Miss N didnt contact Santander in response to that letter and 
she didnt make a payment to bring the balance of her account within the agreed limit. 
Santander sent further letters to Miss N in August 2022. But again, Miss N didnt respond 
and didnt make any payment towards the account. So, in September 2022, Santander 
withdrew Miss Ns overdraft facility. This meant the full overdraw balance needed to be 
repaid. Santander sent further letters to Miss N about this in September and October 2022.
On 10 October 2022, Miss N contacted Santander and promised to pay off the overdraft 
balance in full when she got paid at the end of the month. But Miss N didnt make any 
payment towards the account at the end of October, and she didnt respond to the letters 
that Santander continued to send to her about her account balance. So, in December 2022, 
Santander sent a default notice to Miss N. And, in February 2023 when Miss N didnt 
respond to that notice or make a payment towards the account, they defaulted her account.
Miss N wasnt happy about this, especially as the Santander agent whom she spoke with 
said that if she didnt clear the overdrawn balance on her account that no action would be 
taken. Miss N also noted that shed moved house and so hadnt received any of the letters 
that Santander had sent her, including the default notice. So, she raised a complaint. 
Santander responded and explained that they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by 
following the process that they had which had resulted in the defaulting of the account. Miss 
N wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss N 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has said that the Santander agent she spoke with in October 2022 told her that there 
would be no adverse consequence for her if she didnt repay the overdrawn balance of her 
account. Ive listened to a recording of this call, and at no point was Miss N told that there 
would be no action taken against her, or no adverse consequences for her, if she didnt pay 
off the overdrawn balance. 
There was some confusion at one point during the call as to whether interest was still being 
charged on the account or not. But Santanders agent did explain to Miss N that her current 
balance was £759.71, and that her account balance at the end of the month  when Miss N 
confirmed that she would be pay off the account balance in full  would be £770.17, 
following the next accrual of interest. And the £770.17 figure given to Miss N was the correct 
balance of the account at the end of October 2022.
But Miss N didnt make the payment of £770.17 by the end of October 2022 as shed 
promised. Indeed, she didnt make any payment towards the account before it was defaulted 
by Santander in February 2023. And Miss N didnt speak with Santander again following the 
October 2022 call until March 2023, which was five months later and after the account had 
been defaulted by Santander the previous month.
On the October call, it was confirmed to Miss N that her overdraft facility had been withdrawn 
and that the full balance of the account was due. And, given that Miss N subsequently made 
no payment to Santander and didnt contact them about the overdrawn account, Im satisfied 
that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to follow the account arrears process they did 
that culminated in the issuance of a default notice in December 2022 and the defaulting of 
the account in February 2023. 
Miss N has explained that she had moved house and hadnt updated her address with 
Santander, meaning that she wasnt receiving the letters that Santander were sending her 
about the account. But it was Miss Ns responsibility as the account holder to have updated 
her address with Santander or in the absence of letters to have monitored the status of her 
account via other channels while they were available to her. 
And while Santanders agent on the October 2022 call didnt press Miss N for further details 
of her new address when Miss N mentioned that shed moved house on that call, Miss N 
didnt ask for her address to be updated herself. And, as explained, she also didnt update 
her address with Santander at any time during the many months that her account was in an 
unauthorised overdraft position.
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here. Miss N didnt keep the balance of her account within the agreed overdraft limit 
and she didnt monitor the ongoing account status or update her address with Santander as 
per her responsibilities as an account holder. Most importantly, Miss H didnt make any 
payments to reduce the balance of her account from June 2022, when she made a payment 
of £45, until February 2023, when the account was fairly defaulted by Santander. 
It follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take 
any further action. I hope that Miss N will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman