DRN-3578264
The complaint
Mr E complains that ReAssure Limited provided him with incorrect information about the 
charges that he would need to pay on the investments he held within his pension plan. And 
he further complains that delays in resolving his initial complaint meant that his pension 
savings were not transferred to another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr E held pension savings with ReAssure. Initially that pension plan had been 
opened with another firm. However responsibility for the plan later changed to 
ReAssure  for ease I will simply refer to the business as ReAssure throughout this 
decision.
Mr E says that he first discussed the charges that would be payable on his pension 
investments with ReAssure in 2016. And he says he had further discussions with the 
firm about the charges in 2019. He says that on each occasion ReAssure told him 
that there would be no charges levied on his pension investments. But that 
information was incorrect. And in 2020 ReAssure confirmed to Mr E that he should 
have been made aware that a 1% Annual Management Charge (AMC) applied.
Mr E says that, had he been correctly informed about the charges, he would have 
moved all his pension savings to another provider with whom he already held other 
pension monies. And once he became aware of the AMC he asked ReAssure to 
transfer his pension savings. But due to some delays in dealing with Mr Es complaint 
about the charges the transfer didnt take place as quickly as it might have done.
When ReAssure first looked at Mr Es complaint it paid him a total of £800 for the 
trouble and upset hed been caused. Mr E says that payment was in fact a partial 
recompense of the additional charges hed paid. But ReAssure later concluded that 
Mr E hadnt lost out as a result of the delays to the transfer. Unhappy with that 
response Mr E brought his complaint to this Service.
 
While we were considering the complaint Mr E had further discussions with 
ReAssure. As a result of those discussions, in June 2021, Mr E accepted an offer 
from the business in full and final settlement of his complaint. And ReAssure paid 
Mr E a further £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hed faced when making a subject 
access request.
I will first touch on the compensation that ReAssure has paid to Mr E in relation to his 
subject access request. Those problems do not form part of this complaint and so 
I will not discuss them further here. I only mention that compensation as it did form 
part of the agreement that Mr E reached with ReAssure in June 2021.
Mr Es pension investments attracted an AMC of 1%. ReAssure accepts that when it 
discussed with Mr E the charges he would pay on his pension savings in 2019 it 
failed to identify the AMC that he would need to pay. And Mr E says that had those 
charges been made clear he would have moved his pension savings to another 
provider where the charges were lower.
But Mr E says the misinformation about the charges started much earlier  in 2016. 
He says that at that time he had other calls with ReAssure where he was given 
similar information about there being no charges. ReAssure doesnt have any record 
of those calls. But of course that doesnt mean they didnt take place. Mr E has 
provided plausible testimony of his recollections.
ReAssure has provided us with copies of some statements that were sent to Mr E in 
October 2015 and October 2016. Both those statements explicitly state that an AMC 
of 1% would be charged on his pension investments. And ReAssure has also 
provided us with an email that Mr E sent in 2013. That email confirmed Mr E was 
aware of the 1% AMC and said that he was considering transferring his pension 
savings to another provider who only charged 0.5%.
 
So it is clear that Mr E was, or at the very least should have been, aware of the AMC 
in 2015 and 2016. Of course it is entirely possible that his phone conversation with 
ReAssure post-dated that correspondence. But I think he might reasonably have 
sought further clarification if the information hed been given by phone so clearly 
contradicted his earlier understanding, and the details contained on his statements.
There is evidence that ReAssure provided incorrect information to Mr E by telephone 
in 2019. It is less clear, but not implausible, that similar incorrect information was 
provided in 2016. But, as I will now go on to explain, I dont think I need to reach a 
firm decision as to the point at which ReAssures error first occurred.
Ive looked carefully at the email correspondence between Mr E and ReAssure that 
took place more than a year after he had first made his complaint. It seems that, at 
that time, ReAssure agreed to have another look at what had previously happened, 
and whether it needed to do anything further to put things right.
Following a phone conversation Mr E sent an email to ReAssure. In that email he set 
out his understanding that the £800 he had already been paid was in respect of the 
charges he had incurred following the incorrect information ReAssure had given him. 
And he then also set out the losses he thought he had incurred as a result of the 
delayed transfer to the new provider.
I think what Mr E then said next is important, and I repeat that section of his email in 
full, and with his emphasis, below;
Like you, I am keen to get this matter resolved, as I have already indicated, 
the investment in time and energy I have had to make.
Hence, can you please consider a payment of £3,247.46 plus the £250 for the 
SAR element. I believe that this is fair, and even though I am of the belief that 
the £800 already paid does not meet the charges imposed, or that any 
goodwill will be included in the overall figures, I would be prepared to 
consider the matter fully closed on all fronts.ReAssure thanked Mr E for the feedback hed provided. And it confirmed that in the 
spirit of reaching a conclusion and to reflect our appreciation for the learning 
opportunities you have articulated it was willing to offer him a total of £3,497.46 in 
full and final settlement.
Mr E sent ReAssure an email accepting that payment in full and final settlement. He 
said that he wanted to put a close to this matter.
It is clear to me that the payment Mr E accepted, in full and final settlement of his 
complaint, related to both the aspects of the complaint I have detailed above  the 
information hed been given about the charges, and the delay to the transfer of his 
pension savings. I dont think that it would be either fair or reasonable for me to direct 
ReAssure to pay anything more to Mr E. Essentially by accepting its offer he agreed 
with ReAssure that nothing more needed to be done in relation to putting matters 
right.
So in summary, although ReAssure gave Mr E incorrect information about the plan 
charges in 2019, and potentially before, I think the compensation it has already paid 
him is fair. And I think the same applies to any delays that Mr E experienced in the 
transfer of his pension savings. I dont currently think ReAssure needs to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ReAssure has said that it has nothing further to add. Mr E has provided 
me with some additional written comments, and we have had a lengthy telephone 
conversation to discuss his view of the complaint. Although I am only summarising here what 
Mr E has said, and what we discussed by phone, I want to reassure him that I have carefully 
considered everything he raised.
Mr E provided much more detail on the background to his complaint. He explained why he 
thought it had been reasonable to accept the information ReAssure had given him by 
telephone in 2016 about there being no charges payable on his pension investments. He 
reiterated that, had he been given correct information, hed have moved his pension savings 
to another provider. So he thought that, at the very least, ReAssure should refund the 
charges he had paid on his pension savings.
But much of Mr Es concern related to what had happened when he did move his pension 
savings to the new provider, and the delays that ReAssure caused. He says that at every 
stage ReAssure tried to negotiate down any compensation it might have to pay, and that 
someone with less understanding of the situation might have accepted an unfair lower offer.
Mr E accepts that he told ReAssure that the settlement it had made would be sufficient for 
him to consider the matter closed. He does however note that he suggested to ReAssure it 
might want to consider a payment for his trouble and upset  and that request was ignored. 
But he says that I should consider his acceptance of the compensation in the light of the long 
and protracted battle he felt he had fought to get ReAssure to take responsibility for its 
actions. Effectively he says that he accepted the offer under duress  by that time he had 
been worn down by ReAssures handling of the complaint and simply wanted the matter to 
go away.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought carefully about the additional background information that Mr E has provided, 
and Id like to thank him for his time and patience in explaining what was clearly a very 
frustrating and difficult situation for him. But Im sorry to tell him that our conversation hasnt 
caused me to change my mind on his complaint.
There is no doubt that Mr E feels very strongly about how ReAssure has treated him during 
its handling of his complaint. His testimony about what happened in 2016, was extremely 
persuasive. And given what happened in 2019 when he was given similar, and incorrect, 
information about the charges payable on his pension investments, I would tend to find his 
recollections entirely plausible.
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, that isnt the crux of what I need to decide on 
this complaint. Mr E accepted an offer from ReAssure in full and final settlement of all his 
points of complaint. That led me to a conclusion that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask 
ReAssure to do anything more. Asking ReAssure to pay further compensation would 
discourage the early settlement of complaints, and perhaps result in less favourable 
outcomes elsewhere.
I have thought in some depth about whether I should consider Mr E to have been in some 
way coerced into accepting the offer ReAssure made. There is no doubt that Mr E feels he 
had reached the end of his tolerance in dealing with the complaint. And to a degree it is 
disappointing that it took his efforts to help ReAssure understand why the delays to the 
transfer had caused him to lose out. 
But, I have to be mindful that the offer Mr E ultimately accepted was one that he had 
proposed in the first place. I wouldnt think it unreasonable to suggest that ReAssure, 
similarly keen to resolve the complaint, accepted an offer from Mr E that it might not normally 
have thought was fair. Ultimately I havent been persuaded, either by the written evidence or 
my phone call with Mr E, that the situation had become so protracted that Mr E had no other 
option but to agree to the settlement.
So, in summary, although I understand Mr Es dissatisfaction with the way ReAssure treated 
him in relation to the charges on his pension investments, and the delays to the transfer of 
his pension savings, I think the compensation it has already paid to him is fair. So I dont 
think ReAssure needs to do anything more in relation to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman