DRN-3115908
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt prevent her account from being 
compromised by a fraudster.
  
What happened
Miss B had two accounts with Santander. Both accounts were used for saving, with one only 
used a couple of times since it was opened several years ago and the other one receiving a 
monthly standing order paid in.
In February 2020 someone called Santander pretending to be Miss B. They passed the 
security questions they were asked and proceeded to set up online banking on Miss Bs 
accounts  which hadnt been in place previously. They also opened four new accounts, 
ordered a debit card on Miss Bs existing current account as well as a card on each of the 
new accounts. The same person changed the contact email and phone number on Miss Bs 
profile but was told they couldnt change the mailing address without visiting a branch with 
identification, so the mailing address was left as Miss Bs genuine address.
Following these changes, Miss Bs accounts were drained of their balances.
In March 2020 someone called Santander saying fraud was being carried out on Miss Bs 
account by someone they knew, and theyd found a number of cards in Miss Bs name at a 
property. Santander blocked the cards, but didnt contact Miss B.
Shortly after this on 25 March 2020, Miss B received a letter regarding a suspicious payment 
made out of her account of around £2,000. Miss B got in touch with Santander, as it wasnt a 
transaction she recognised, and became aware of the fraudulent activity on her accounts.
Miss B says Santander told her they would investigate her fraud claim, but she wasnt 
guaranteed a refund. And every day for the next two weeks she had to call or speak to 
someone at Santander about the fraud claim. Miss B says she was often subjected to long 
wait times due to reduced staff because of the pandemic. Also that she ended up having to 
take two days off work, which came out of her leave entitlement and that it was extremely 
distressing for her, all at an already stressful time due to the pandemic.
On 27 March 2020, Santander confirmed to Miss B that she would be refunded in full and 
theyd write to the credit agencies to have her credit file amended.
Santander responded to Miss B after theyd finished their investigation. They admitted that 
there were errors in how they handled the call with the fraudster and offered £300 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience Miss B experienced as a result.
Miss B says that while she was refunded in full for the funds taken out of her accounts, she 
has received poor customer service from Santander and doesnt feel the £300 adequately 
addresses what she has been through. 
Miss B highlighted the following points:
Santander has admitted they made an error in how they handled the call from the 
fraudster, so their fraud systems failed and they allowed her accounts to be 
compromised. 
Their fraud detection system wasnt fit for purpose as the transactions made on her 
account by the fraudster were so unusual and out of character that they shouldve 
flagged with Santander as suspicious - before they did. 
A letter was sent to Miss B saying how much she was being refunded which was only 
part of the funds she lost due to the fraud  which was a mistake.
There were various administration errors made by Santander.
She was told she needed to get online banking for security reasons. But there were 
issues with the letters they sent out which meant she didnt have access to her 
accounts for a further two weeks and couldnt see if the refunds had been paid.
She had to take two days off work, which reduced the entitlement she had available.
Miss B says she spent 10 hours on hold or speaking with Santander in relation to the 
situation and shed like compensation for time spent as well as distress and inconvenience 
factored into a settlement payment. Miss B added that she is experiencing an ongoing 
impact on her financial life due to the markers on her credit file which indicate she was a 
victim of fraud.
As Miss B wasnt happy with Santanders response, she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint and didnt uphold it, saying the £300 already 
offered by Santander was in line with what we wouldve recommended and fairly addressed 
the level of service she received. 
Miss B disagreed, so the case was passed to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss B that Ive carefully read and considered everything shes told us 
including her response to the investigators opinion. Having done so I agree with the 
outcome the investigator reached and Ill explain why. In doing so, I may not address each 
individual point that Miss B raised  but that doesnt mean I havent considered them. 
I think its important to start by echoing what the investigator told Miss B. Its not within our 
remit to look at the policies, procedures or systems that Santander has in place, that role lies 
with the regulator - The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We also cant fine, penalise or 
punish a business. I can only look at what happened in this situation and where something 
has gone wrong, what Santander have done or should do to put things right. 
Miss Bs account was compromised on 2 March 2020. Santander say they became aware of 
the fraud on 25 March 2020 and refunded Miss B two days later on 27 March 2020.Having reviewed the activity on her account, I agree with Miss B that the sudden change in 
activity on her account, combined with the size and frequency of some of the payments 
shouldve flagged as suspicious with Santander. Usually at the point transactions flag as 
suspicious wed expect Santander to contact Miss B. However, as the fraudster had 
changed the contact phone number and email address on Miss Bs account to their contact 
information  its unlikely that Santander getting in touch earlier wouldve uncovered the 
scam. Also, Im not persuaded that Santander identifying the fraud at an earlier point 
wouldve reduced the distress that Miss B experienced, as most of her distress was caused 
by someone getting access to her accounts in the first place.
But I accept that Miss Bs stress wouldve been added to when she received a letter that 
incorrectly said she wasnt getting a full refund. Also, the delay she experienced in being 
able to set up her online banking, which meant she couldnt check her account to make sure 
the refunds from Santander had been processed.  And that Miss B spent two weeks trying to 
resolve this with Santander, which involved her taking two days off work which reduced her 
leave entitlement. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Santander couldve handled things better and couldve reduced 
the distress that Miss B experienced. But I also have to look at what theyve done to try and 
put things right.
Santander fully refunded Miss B for the funds the fraudster removed from her accounts and 
in a timely manner. So, from what Ive seen, Miss B hasnt suffered a financial loss in that 
regard. Santander have put her back in the position she wouldve been in if the funds hadnt 
been removed. Also, as Miss B didnt use these accounts on a regular basis, I cant see that 
she was negatively impacted by not having access to her funds. I say this as she wasnt 
relying on the funds in her Santander accounts to pay her bills or meet her day to day 
financial commitments. Both of these accounts were used as savings accounts, including her 
current account.
Also, Santander have been upfront in acknowledging there was an error in how they handled 
the call from the fraudster. And they made an offer to Miss B to address the poor service she 
received, in an attempt to rectify the situation for Miss B.
Having considered everything carefully, I think Santanders offer of £300 is reasonable. 
Taking into account the administrative errors, the error they made in handling the initial call 
with the fraudster, the steps they took to put things right and how quickly they did it, and the 
overall level of customer service Miss B experienced. I appreciate that Miss B will disagree 
as she feels that a higher award is due in the circumstances, but Im not persuaded that it is. 
Miss B has raised an issue with the markers on her credit file, which indicate that shes been 
the victim of fraud. However, this is an accurate reflection of the situation and these markers 
are designed to protect Miss B in case further fraud is attempted. Her information was 
compromised, and the fraudster had access to her post, as they retrieved/intercepted the 
new Santander debit cards theyd ordered on her accounts. On that basis I cant fairly 
suggest that the payment from Santander should be higher due to any impact of Miss Bs 
credit file reflecting she was a victim of fraud.
While Santander had already offered to pay Miss B £300 - she didnt accept it. Santander 
should now make the payment to Miss B.Putting things right
To put things right Santander UK Plc should pay Miss B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience she has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Santander UK Plc.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ombudsman