DRN-3941441
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim he 
made on his Landlords Legal Protection policy. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr B rented a property to joint tenants. After their relationship ended one of the 
tenants wanted to remain at the property. A new tenancy was agreed in her sole name in 
October 2018. 
Mr B contacted DAS in May 2022 as the tenant had stopped paying the rent. He wanted to 
claim on his policy for assistance with repossession and rent arrears. DAS considered the 
claim and agreed cover for legal expenses to assist with the repossession. However, it 
turned down the rent arrears claim. It said cover under this part of the policy was subject to a 
satisfactory reference being obtained. It thought that would include an affordability check. 
That hadnt been obtained. If it had been it would have shown the tenants income wasnt 
sufficient to cover the full rent.  
Our investigator agreed it would be reasonable to expect a reference to include an 
affordability check. And that hadnt been obtained in relation to the tenants ability to cover 
the full rent. He thought DAS had fairly turned down the claim. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said:
Satisfactory references were obtained at the point the tenant and her then partner moved 
into the property. The policy didnt say these became void after a period of time. 
He hadnt obtained further reference after the tenant split up with her partner but had 
made a financially prudent decision to agree the tenancy based on his agents 
recommendation, the fact her family lived nearby, references had previously been 
obtained and she had a good payment history.
The policy didnt say a tenant must be referenced on their ability to pay the rent in full. 
Nor did it say a reference must include an affordability check at all. He didnt accept a 
reasonable person looking at the policy would think a satisfactory reference included an 
affordability check.
Hed met the policy requirements as they related to referencing and DAS were 
attempting to apply a condition the policy didnt contain. He couldnt have breached such 
a condition. And the policy didnt specify any action he needed to take if there was a 
change in risk.
He didnt agree the tenant wouldnt have been able to afford the rent when looking at her 
income and the amount she would need to pay. The rent had been paid from the start of 
the tenancy and on an ongoing basis after she took sole responsibility for this.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
I appreciate why this matter is important to Mr B and Ive read all of the detailed submissions 
hes made. But I dont think its practical to respond to every point hes raised. Instead Ive 
sought to focus on what seem to me to be the key issues; those which would impact on the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Ive looked first at the terms and condition of Mr Bs policy. This does provide cover for rent 
arrears. But thats provided you have obtained a satisfactory reference* for each tenant and 
each guarantor from a licensed referencing service before the tenancy started. 
The policy goes on to say The reference must include written references from a previous 
managing agent or landlord; an employer (or any other financial source); and a credit history 
check (including the Enforcement of Judgements Office, County Court Judgement and 
bankruptcy).
Ive thought about how this applies here. I think the term makes clear the provision of tenant 
default cover is subject to a satisfactory reference being obtained and cover wont be 
provided where that hasnt taken place. I can see Mr B did obtain a reference on his tenant 
at the start of the tenancy in 2016 from what I understand was a licensed referencing 
service. But its not in dispute he didnt obtain a further reference when the new tenancy 
agreement was taken out in October 2018. 
Mr B says theres nothing in the policy to say a reference becomes void after a certain period 
of time. But the policy does contain a general condition for a policyholder to try and prevent 
anything happening that may cause a claim. In this case there was a gap of over two years 
from the start of the original tenancy until the new one was taken out. There had also been a 
significant change because the tenancy was now in sole rather than joint names. 
I think that represents a material change in circumstances and it would have been 
reasonable for Mr B to have sought to mitigate that risk (and the potential for a claim to be 
made) by obtaining a new reference that met the requirements set out in the policy. But he 
didnt do that. 
Mr B says thats because his agent recommended the tenant, her family lived nearby, 
satisfactory references had previously been obtained and she had a good payment history. 
However, her previous history was as a joint tenant. I dont think that could be relied on as 
an indicator of her ability to meet the rent on her own. In any event these issues relate to the 
risk Mr B was prepared to take on as landlord. The fact he was prepared to do so doesnt 
meant thats a risk DAS should be required to accept without the policy terms as they relate 
to referencing being met. 
I can see that discussion of this has focussed on the affordability requirement. Im not sure 
thats the only issue here because it doesnt appear any referencing was carried out 
immediately prior to the tenancy being agreed in October 2018. But, in relation to 
affordability, I agree the policy terms dont specifically refer to this either within the term or 
the subsequent description. And, although DAS suggested in correspondence with Mr B this was what the or any other financial source section of the wording meant, I think its clear 
that relates to an employer reference as it comes within that part of the term. 
But while the policy sets out what a reference must contain it doesnt say thats an 
exhaustive list. And it makes clear that a reference must be satisfactory. I dont agree that 
wouldnt cover affordability. I think a satisfactory reference would reasonably include 
consideration of whether the tenant could afford the rent given thats fundamental to their 
ability to maintain the tenancy. That does appear to have formed part of the check Mr B 
obtained prior to the tenancy first being taken out in 2016 but neither that or the other terms 
as they relate to referencing were met prior to the new tenancy being agreed in 2018. 
Mr B suggests the doctrine of contra proferentem should apply meaning that any ambiguity 
in the contract should be interpreted in his favour. However, that has a more limited role in 
relation to commercial contracts (which this is as it relates to Mr B in his role as landlord). In 
any event I think the relevant term is written in reasonably clear and intelligible language and 
Ive explained why DAS acted reasonably in interpreting it as they did. So I dont think its 
necessary in any case to apply the doctrine of contra proferentem. I think the term is capable 
of being understood without needing to do that.
Ive gone on to consider whether its fair of DAS to apply that term in this case. It might not 
be if Mr B could show the absence of a reference check (including an affordability 
assessment) hadnt increased the risk to DAS of a successful claim being made on the 
policy. Mr B has argued that if a check had been done it would have shown the tenant could 
afford the rent. But I dont think thats right. His calculation doesnt appear to take into 
account tax the tenant would have paid on their salary. 
In any case a generally accepted formula for calculating rental affordability is an annual 
income of 30 times the monthly rent or 2.5 times the yearly rent. That means the tenant 
would only have passed an affordability check if the rent had been less than £513 a month. 
In fact it was over £700. I appreciate the tenant does appear to have been able to make 
those payments for a period of time but I havent seen evidence of additional income or other 
support that enabled her to do so (and could have impacted any affordability assessment). 
So, on the basis of the information that was available to DAS, I dont think it acted unfairly in 
turning down the claim Mr B made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman