DRN-3208265
The complaint
Mr J says The Five Lamps Organisation lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J took out a loan for £300, repayable over 24 weeks, on 7 December 2018. The weekly 
repayment was £14.70 and the total repayable was £352.80.
Mr J says the loan was issued without accurate affordability checks.
Our investigator said Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She found Five Lamps checks 
showed Mr J was already struggling with his finances and would be unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay this loan.
Five Lamps disagreed. It said Mr Js financial issues were historic and its credit check 
showed he was maintaining his current credit accounts with barely any issues. 
Five Lamps asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Five Lamps lent to Mr J required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Five Lamps had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr J. In other words, it wasnt enough for Five Lamps to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Five Lamps did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr J. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Five Lamps complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Js loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Five Lamps make a fair lending decision?
- did Five Lamps act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Five Lamps asked for some information from Mr J to understand his disposable 
income before it approved the loan. It asked for his monthly income and for a payslip to 
verify it. It asked about his living costs and checked Mr Js credit file to understand his 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these checks combined Five 
Lamps concluded that Mr J had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case, but I am not
persuaded Five Lamps reacted appropriately to the information it gathered to make its 
lending decision. Ill explain why.
The credit check Five Lamps completed showed Mr J had three unsettled defaults from 
2016. Whilst these could be seen as historic I think the entries are relevant to Mr Js recent 
financial situation as he was only making nominal payments to reduce the balances on these 
accounts and the debts remained. He then had a more recent satisfied default from May 
2018, a loan and a mail order account that had been in arrears for several months and a 
mail order account with a recent missed payment  in addition to a loan account that was in 
arrears but in dispute. So it seems Mr J was not managing to meet all his existing credit 
commitments.
The report shows Mr J had £8,186 of unsecured debt. He had opened eight new accounts in 
the last six months and had fallen delinquent on six accounts in the last 12 months. I note he 
had used and settled two payday loans in September 2018. So I disagree with Five Lamps 
analysis that Mr J was managing his finances with no significant issues. I think there were 
indicators that his finances were under pressure and that he was struggling to manage his 
money. So Five Lamps ought to have realised there was a high risk this loan would not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr J. 
To meet its regulatory obligations it had to consider this, not just the monthly pounds and 
pence affordability. This is set out in the regulators Consumer Credit sourcebook, CONC in 
section 5.2A.12(R):
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
It follows I think Five Lamps was wrong to lend to Mr J.
I havent found any evidence Five Lamps acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in any 
other way. I am aware Mr J was unhappy with how the lender managed his complaint. As 
this is not a regulated activity that falls under our jurisdiction, and as he was satisfied with 
the facts used in the investigators assessment, I have not looked into this further. 
 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
Five Lamps should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr J made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Js loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Five Lamps should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Five Lamps 
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Five Lamps to deduct tax from this interest. Five Lamps should 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint. The Five Lamps Organisation must put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman