DRN-3344400
The complaint
Mr K says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K took out two instalment loans from 118 118 Money. A summary of his borrowing
follows. Both loans have been settled, loan 1 by loan 2.
Mr K says the loans were unaffordable and should never have been given.
Our adjudicator found that 118 118 Moneys checks were not proportionate given what it saw
on the credit checks it completed. She said it should have gone on to complete a fuller
financial review. However, as Mr K was unable to provide copies of his bank statements
from the months prior to the time of each application she could not know what better checks
would most likely have shown the lender. And so she was unable to uphold Mr Ks
complaint.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans review. He said his credit reports show he was struggling
financially. He asked why his failure to provide bank statements now impacts the outcome
given 118 118 Money didnt asked for them at the time  its clear its checks were not good
enough.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and planned to uphold Mr Ks
complaint in part. So I issued a provisional decision  an extract follows and forms part of 
this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comment or new information by 29 March 
2022. Mr K and 118 118 Money responded before this deadline allowing me to reach a final 
decision now. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr K before it approved the
loans. It asked for details of his monthly income and his monthly expenditure. It says it
checked these against reasonable average figures  but it hasnt made clear if this meant it
amended what Mr K had declared. It asked about his residential status and whether he had
dependents. It asked about the purpose of the loans which was other for loan 1 and
unknown for loan 2. It also checked Mr Ks credit file to understand his credit history and
current commitments. From these checks combined 118 118 Money concluded Mr K had
enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loans.
I dont think these checks were proportionate for loan 1. Based on the information it initially
gathered I think 118 118 Money should have carried out a fuller financial review before
agreeing to lend. And whilst they werent proportionate for loan 2 either, I think even based
on the information gathered 118 118 Money did not make a fair lending decision for loan 2.
Ill explain why.
Loan 1
118 118 Money knew from the credit check that Mr K already had around £26,700 in
unsecured debt across 12 accounts. Whilst he was up-to-date on all his repayments, I think
the lender ought to have better checked increasing his debt would be sustainable. The
lenders calculations show Mr K had disposable income of £937 so he may have been able
to manage that level of debt without any detriment  but its calculation was not based on
verified actuals. In these circumstances, I think it ought to have taken steps to validate
Mr Ks declared income and to understand his actual monthly expenditure.
This means I need to look at what better checks would most likely have shown the lender.
Unfortunately, I currently have no way to do this. Mr K has not provided bank statements to
date, explaining he no longer has the current account he used in 2018. But the bank may still
be able to provide copies of the statements. He asks why we need them given 118 118
Money failed to check them at the time  but this is the reason why. They allow me to see
what better checks would most likely have shown the lender and so conclude whether, or
not, it made a fair lending decision. Mr K argues his credit report shows he was struggling 
but the only adverse information was historic: two credit card defaults in 2013 that had been
settled by 2015. So I dont agree the lender should have automatically declined his
application at this stage, rather it should have carried out further checks.
I will of course review any further information Mr K can provide, but currently I cant fairly
conclude 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr K.
Loan 2
Mr K applied for a top-up loan seven months later. He received £1,200 and the balance was
used to repay loan 1. This time the credit check 118 118 Money completed showed Mr Ks
total unsecured debt level had marginally increased to £26,995. But more critically, it showed
he had taken out a credit card, three loans and opened a mail order account in the last
seven months. I think this ought to have suggested to 118 118 Money that Mr Ks finances
were most likely under pressure and he did not have the level of disposable income it had
calculated. And even without further checks I think it ought to have declined Mr Ks
application given it would have been his seventh new line of credit in as many months.
I think it was most likely he was trapped in a cycle of borrowing to repay other debts, and
therefore the loan would not be sustainably affordable. I anticipate 118 118 Money might
argue that this cannot be known for certain without sight of Mr Ks bank statements. But I
have made this finding based on the balance of probabilities, in other words what I think is
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. This was Mr Ks
second loan with 118 118 Money in a short period of time and I think it unfairly extended and
prolonged his reliance on high-cost credit.
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr K.
I have not seen any evidence that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr K in some other way.
I then set out what 118 118 Money would have to do to put things right if I went on to uphold 
the complaint in part.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
Mr K and 118 118 Money both replied to my provisional decision, accepting the findings and 
outcome. It follows I have no reason to comment further and I find 118 118 Money was 
wrong to give loan 2 to Mr K for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr K to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan (loan 2) that
shouldnt have been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things
right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and treat all the payments Mr K
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ks second loan account results in him having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in relation to loan 2. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 
118 Money, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman