DRN-3375048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about poor service, errors and delays with their re-mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They ask for compensation for their time, stress and worry.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Barclays which had been on an interest only payments 
basis for some years. The term expired in April 2019 with an unpaid balance. Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to re-mortgage with Barclays. They started this process in March 2019. The re-
mortgage didnt complete until late 2020. During this time, Mr and Mrs S say they had to re-
send information on many occasions. They spoke to three advisers, none of whom they 
consider were properly trained. They say they didnt receive letters and emails Barclays said 
it had sent and its service and communication was poor. After the re-mortgage completed, 
Barclays didnt tell them they needed to make the first payment manually, resulting in 
arrears.
Our investigator said the application hadnt been straightforward due to Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances. While Barclays made errors and caused some delays, the compensation it 
offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said they didnt receive letters and emails that Barclays 
claimed it had sent (and which could have been fabricated). They say Barclays withheld 
information such as call recordings when they did a data subject access request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say I cant reach a fair decision without the information they say Barclays has 
withheld. I should say here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. Having reviewed the available evidence, I think I can reach a fair decision.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage term expired in April 2019 with an unpaid balance. They contacted 
Barclays about re-mortgaging. Barclays records show it ran decisions in principle in March 
2019, September 2019 and September 2020 which declined the application. In each case 
there were several reasons, such as that Mr and Mrs S would be past retirement age at 
maturity, adverse credit history and lack of affordability. A successful application submitted in 
late 2019/early 2020 expired while Barclays solicitors were dealing with a charging order on 
the property title. 
An application in November 2020 was successful and the re-mortgage completed in late 
2020. 
Mr and Mrs S are understandably frustrated by the time this took. I can see from Barclays 
notes that they were in regular contact with Barclays about the mortgage and to provide 
information about their circumstances. They say they didnt receive letters and emails, and 
they werent kept up to date with how the matter was progressing. The mortgage term had 
expired and Mr and Mrs S needed to find a way to repay it. This would have been a stressful 
period for them.
I dont think I can fairly find that the re-mortgage should have completed sooner. Barclays 
had concerns about affordability and Mr and Mrs Ss adverse credit history which needed to 
be looked into. Barclays needed information about Mr and Mrs Ss income after they retire. A 
successful application in early 2020 was held up by legal problems related to a charge on Mr 
and Mrs Ss property title. The application expired and had to be restarted later in 2020. 
However, Barclays accepts that it didnt provide a good service to Mr and Mrs S during this 
time.
Barclays also accepts that it didnt give Mr and Mrs S clear information that they needed to 
make the first payment manually after the re-mortgage completed. As a result, the payment 
was missed. Barclays confirmed this didnt affect Mr and Mrs Ss credit file, although it said 
they will need to make up the missed payment. 
Barclays also apologised for delays in responding to Mr and Mrs Ss data subject access 
request and for telephoning at times when Mr and Mrs S had told it they are out at work. 
Barclays paid £200 and offered another £400 compensation for the upset caused. 
Barclays provided copies of letters and emails it says it sent to Mr and Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S 
say they didnt receive these letters and emails or have the telephone conversations that 
Barclays claims they did. They consider this to be fraud and that these documents could be 
easily fabricated. They say Barclays took too long to respond to their subject access request 
and has withheld information.
Barclays did respond  albeit after some delay  to Mr and Mrs Ss subject access request. I 
think that any concerns Mr and Mrs S have about this would be better addressed to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Barclays dealt with their complaints. I should explain 
here that complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity. That means we cant look into Mr 
and Mrs Ss complaints about how Barclays dealt with their complaint, unless this impacted 
on sorting out the underlying problem (the re-mortgage). I dont think that was the case here 
as the complaints were raised after the re-mortgage completed. 
I appreciate that the process of re-mortgaging was stressful and drawn out. Barclays poor 
communication and service would have added to this. Even when the re-mortgage 
completed Barclays made further errors. However, I think a large part of the time taken and 
stress would have been due to Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances. They had a mortgage that 
had expired with an unpaid balance and their circumstances caused difficulties with re-
mortgaging. I think for the additional upset caused by Barclays errors compensation of £600 
is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £400 to Mr and Mrs S, as it offered to 
do, in addition to the £200 it has already paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman