DRN-2576658
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) included the name of his 
late father on the surrender forms of two policies he had to complete. Having already told 
Aviva of his fathers passing he feels Aviva should have removed his fathers name and 
signature box before issuing the forms to him.
What happened
Mr Cs father passed away in December 2019 and Mr C notified Aviva of this in early 2020. 
He also requested the surrender forms required for cash in two policies his father had held 
with Aviva.
The surrender forms included Mr Cs father name as the policy holder as well as a signature 
box for his signature. Mr C was unhappy with this and felt the forms should have been 
amended to remove this part before being sent out to him.
In response to the complaint Aviva explained the surrender forms were pre-printed and 
therefore couldnt be amended. It did however agree that it could have been more sensitive 
when explaining this to Mr C over the telephone prior to him making the complaint. It also 
acknowledged that it could have explained this in a cover letter to Mr C as well as explaining 
the signature box should be ignored. In recognition of this, Aviva paid Mr C £50 and also 
agreed to pay the funds to Mr C by Clearing House Automated Payment System (CHAPS) 
payment rather than the usual Bankers Automated Clearing Services (BACS) payment in 
order to speed up the receipt.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service where it was assessed by 
an investigator. She felt the amount Aviva had paid to Mr C be increased to a total of £100. 
She felt this was required because Aviva had been told on two occasions about the passing 
of Mr Cs father and also because she didnt feel Aviva had been sympathetic enough in 
dealing with Mr C during his difficult time.
Aviva didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the compensation of £50 it 
had paid was sufficient.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
I appreciate that Aviva couldnt have amended the forms when Mr C contacted it to 
surrender the policies. But I do think it could have done more to mitigate the effect of seeing 
his fathers name on the forms by explaining to him that the forms were pre-printed and 
apologising for any potential distress before the forms were sent out. That way Mr C would 
have been able to prepare himself for the details the forms included. I dont think this would 
have been too onerous for Aviva to do and would have shown it was treating it customers in 
an empathic manner.
In addition, having also listened to the telephone calls between Mr C and Aviva I also think 
there could have been more recognition of Mr Cs situation and the fact he had recently 
suffered a loss. Its important for any customer of a business to be treated as an individual 
and I dont think this happened in this situation.
Its also worth making the point that while I appreciate this may be now something Aviva has 
looked to amend; I think this is something that should have been addressed by Aviva a lot 
earlier than Mr C raising it. There must be many other customers of Aviva in the same 
situation as Mr C who have received these surrender forms where the deceaseds details 
have been included and undoubtedly this would be quite distressing for them. 
Putting things right
Overall, therefore, I think the circumstances of this complaint warrant an increase in the 
compensation offered to £100 in total. I think the distress caused to Mr C could have been 
easily avoided and dealt with a lot earlier than it has been.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to pay Mr C the amount noted above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman