DRN-3472707
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) took too long in 
processing a current account switch over to them.
As this complaint relates to a joint account, Im required to write to both account holders, 
however the content of my decision refers to the complaint raised by Mr C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a current account with a third-party bank. The third-party bank were 
closing all their accounts they held with their customers on 31 August 2021. So, Mr and Mrs 
C applied for a current account around mid-August 2021 with Nationwide to switch over to. 
This current account switch was backed by the Current Account Switch Guarantee which 
Mr and Mrs C say was designed to let you switch from one bank or building society to 
another within seven working days.
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide didnt adhere to these requirements and believes they took too 
long to request ID from themselves, which resulted in their switch not completing prior to 31 
August 2021. Mr and Mrs C also say that they were assured by Nationwide that the switch 
would be completed by the deadline when they visited its branch.
Mr and Mrs C say they were told during a webchat conversation with Nationwide that they 
were having some technical issues with its account switches which had caused the delay. 
Nationwide say that Mr and Mrs C were given incorrect information during the webchat and 
also apologised for any guarantees made by staff at their branch.
Nationwide made a goodwill payment of £50 as an apology for the level of service Mr and 
Mrs C received. They also offered to look into any financial loss incurred as a result of any 
scheduled payments arranged from 1 September 2021, if Mr and Mrs C could provide 
evidence of this. Nationwide then offered a further £100 for the service they provided to Mr 
and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C complained to our service and felt compensation of an additional £200 would 
be fairer for the impact the delay in switching had caused them.
Our investigator said that he didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything further. He found 
that Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly when processing Mr and Mrs Cs account switch and 
that the compensation Nationwide gave for their poor service was in line with his 
expectations.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and didnt feel the investigator took into account the stress caused 
and the impact the delay in switching current accounts had on Mr C. Mr and Mrs C feel the 
difficulty and stress of contacting organisations was further exacerbated as they had to 
contact many people when they were still working from home.
As Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
When considering this complaint, I looked into what Nationwide did and thought about 
whether they had acted fairly and reasonably when they responded to Mr and Mrs C.
The Current Account Switch Service was introduced to allow customers to move or switch 
banks easily. Generally, a customer would approach their new preferred bank and apply for 
an account, as well as providing details of the account they wanted to switch from and the 
date they wanted to move their account across. A customer would need to allow seven 
working days for the switch to take place. The new account provider will then switch all 
payments and the balance of the old account over to them.
The switch service is covered by the Current Account Switch Guarantee, where any issues 
which cause a delay or other errors or charges as a result of the switch, will be refunded to 
the consumer by the new bank or building society.
It is worth noting that Nationwide have only signed up to the service, along with other 
participating UK banks and building societies to help their customers switch accounts to and 
from them. The service is managed and overseen by another third-party.
I have noted on the current account switch website, under a FAQ section, it explains that 
account opening and account switching are not part of the same process and are separate. 
It explains that a new bank or building society has to carry out know your customer security 
checks as part of their account opening process. And that once these are completed, the 
date of the switch can be set, as long as it is at least seven working days from this point.
Nationwide has provided internal system notes that show they received a current account 
application switch from Mr and Mrs C on 15 August 2021 and their account was 
subsequently opened on 25 August 2021. It also shows Nationwide requested the funds to 
be switched from the third-party account on 2 September 2021. Nationwide say they 
wouldnt request for the switch with the third-party bank until the new account was opened, 
and therefore dont believe there were any delays and had attempted to complete the switch 
within the timeframes.
Mr and Mrs C believes Nationwide should have contacted them sooner to request ID from 
themselves.
I have thought carefully about what both parties have said and looked into how long it took 
Nationwide to get in touch with their customer to obtain the security information they needed. 
I dont think the time it took Nationwide to contact Mr and Mrs C to be unreasonable in this 
instance. And having reviewed the conditions of the account switch service, I dont think 
Nationwide has acted unreasonably or unfairly. I say this because, it is clear that the account 
switching service is a separate process to the account opening process  and that additional 
security checks would need to take place in order to open an account with a bank or building 
society. I can also see that Nationwide did request the account switch within seven working 
days of the account opening.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say that they had to spend some time contacting specific 
companies and organisations about upcoming payments. But I cant fairly say that Nationwide are at fault here as I mentioned above, I dont believe Nationwide have acted 
outside of their terms.
Nationwide offered to look into any financial loss incurred as a result of any scheduled 
payments arranged from 1 September 2021, if Mr and Mrs C could provide evidence of this. 
While I appreciate Mr C feels that it would be a lot of effort to provide this evidence, I dont 
think Nationwide needed to make this gesture, given I dont believe they had done anything 
wrong in this instance.
Nationwide credited Mr and Mrs C with £150 in total for the level of service provided to them. 
Nationwide acknowledged the communication they provided was poor and at times they 
gave incorrect information. They also agreed that they didnt manage Mr and Mrs Cs 
expectations well when dealing with their complaint. Mr and Mrs C feel compensation of 
around an additional £200 would be fairer amount.
Considering the length of time Nationwide took to respond to Mr and Mrs C and put things 
right for them and apologise for the incorrect information they say they provided, I think their 
offer was fair. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman