DRN-3654801
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) gave to him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr S employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The BSPS trustees provided scheme members with an important update in August 2017. 
They said that the members employer had made an expected payment into the BSPS of 
£550 million, as part of its agreement with The Pension Regulator and that was likely to 
result in an improvement to transfer values. The confirmation that the employer had made 
the payment referred to was announced on 11 September 2017.
On 18 September 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent Mr S information about his 
entitlement under the BSPS. That included that his DB fund had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £295,144.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. I 
haven't been provided with a copy of the pack sent to Mr S. But I'm aware those gave 
scheme members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
Mr S chose to opt into the BSPS2 prior to approaching Acumen for advice.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
Mr S remained concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for 
the security of his pension. He contacted a financial adviser who referred him to Acumen for 
advice in December 2017. 
Mr S met with Acumen in late December 2017. It conducted a fact-find with him and an 
assessment of his attitude to risk. At that time Mr S was 43 years old, married with two 
children under 13. Both he and his wife were working and his wife was also paying into a DB 
scheme pension. They owned their own home subject to a mortgage that was due to be paid 
in full in 2018. They had £26,000 in savings.. 
After obtaining a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) Acumen met with Mr S again on 
12 January 2018. It produced a suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It advised Mr S to transfer his DB funds into a named personal pension. 
Amongst other things it noted that Mr S was considering retiring at age 58  although that 
could change in the future. It said that, after discussing it with him, it had assessed his 
attitude to risk to be medium. It said the growth rates required (the critical yields) to match 
the benefits from the DB scheme were unlikely to be achievable. So from an investment 
perspective a transfer was likely not feasible. But it said Mr S desire to live on a lower 
income, in order to have flexible access to his funds and greater death benefits were of a 
higher priority to him.
Mr S signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer that day. 
Mr S complained, via the Financial Ombudsman Service, that Acumens advice was not 
suitable for him. We passed that complaint on to Acumen in February 2022. Mr S later 
contacted us and said Acumen hadn't replied to his complaint. We asked Acumen for its file. 
When it sent us that it included a draft reply to Mr S complaint dated in April 2022. Mr S told 
us he hadn't ever received that. Amongst other things the draft reply said Acumen had 
fulfilled its regulatory requirements. It took reasonable steps to satisfy itself that its advice to 
transfer was suitable. It couldnt recommend Mr S join the BSPS2 as it wasnt established 
and there was no certainty it would be. It added that the PPF was widely (and correctly) 
considered to be an undesirable outcome. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr S complaint. The Investigator didnt think Acumen's 
advice was suitable for Mr S. He recommended Mr S complaint be upheld. He said Acumen 
should establish if Mr S had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if 
so pay him compensation, including £300 to address his distress and inconvenience.
Acumen didnt reply to the investigators findings. So, because things couldnt be resolved 
informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumens actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave. I've summarised my 
findings below.
When doing so I've been mindful that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
says in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Acumen should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate it was in Mr S best interests. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
My findings 
When it gave its advice Acumen said that transferring to a personal pension was unlikely to 
achieve the relevant critical yields in order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. And 
Acumen noted that from an investment perspective the transfer wasnt feasible. In other 
words Acumen recognised that transferring would most likely mean Mr S would be worse off 
in retirement by doing so. But I dont think it did enough to make this clear to Mr S nor did it 
give him enough information with which to make an informed decision.
Acumen said that the critical yield to match the BSPS benefits at age 65 was 6.9% and 4.7% 
if his pension moved to the PPF. Acumen didnt provide critical yields if Mr S decided to take 
the maximum tax free cash (TFC) lump sum and a reduced pension. Similarly it didnt 
provide any critical yield figures if Mr S took early retirement. 
Further, Acumen compared the benefits from the BSPS against the personal pension. But 
continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr S. By that time the details 
of the BSPS2 were available. So I think Acumen should have provided a comparison of 
benefits from the personal pension against those from the BSPS2. Had it done so, given 
what I know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 
would have provided from age 65 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
That said, the critical yields at age 58 were likely to have been higher still. Thats because 
the funds would have been invested for a shorter time before Mr S accessed them and so 
had less time to grow. Those funds would also then have needed to support Mr S for a 
longer period in retirement. That means the investments would have needed higher returns 
to match the guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme from an earlier age. So, in order to 
allow Mr S to make an informed decision I think Acumen should have provided Mr S with figures about his entitlements from both the BSPS2 and the PPF at age 58 together with the 
critical yields required to match them. But it didn't do that. 
Further, as I've said, Acumen recognised that the critical yields were unlikely to be matched 
at age 65. So, by taking early retirement at age 58, the gap between the critical yield 
required and the likely growth rate were most likely to have increased further, meaning Mr S 
would likely be even worse off by transferring to a personal pension and taking early 
retirement.
By way of example, prior to October 2017 the Financial Ombudsman Service published 
future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely 
to grow at in the future. They provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. In Mr S case the discount rate 
for retirement at age 65  still over 21 years away  was 4.5%. That is below the rate 
required to match either the BSPS or PPF benefits. And that discount rate falls to 4.2% for 
early retirement at age 58. So, given the critical yield at an early retirement age would have 
most likely been higher than at age 65, they would probably be even less achievable at age 
58 than they were at age 65.
I've noted that Acumen used a cashflow analysis tool  what it called a retirement modeller 
 to show how Mr S personal pension fund could sustain him in retirement. Acumen said its 
model showed that the fund would last Mr S until he was 97 years old. But there are a 
number of unexplained anomalies with the model. For example it assumes Mr S will take a 
net income of £15,000 a year and Mr S income requirement would increase by just 1% a 
year. At the time of its advice, financial models typically used an inflation rate of 2.5% a year. 
But Acumen hasn't explained why it believed Mr S would only require his income to increase 
by a fraction (two fifths) of that to keep pace with inflation. So, in effect, in its model, Mr S 
would be becoming increasingly worse off each year. 
Also the model shows Mr S taking three TFC sums of £30,000 at ages 58, 62 and 65. But it 
provided no explanation for why it believed Mr S would take those TFC amounts at those 
times. Theres nothing anywhere else on file to support that Mr S might want to take those 
sum or why he wouldn't, like most consumers, want to take the full 25% TFC lump sum that 
the personal pension fund would entitle him to when he took his retirement benefits. 
However, representing taking the TFC sums as it had would allow for the model to show a 
more sustainable income over a longer period, than Mr S taking the TFC in one lump sum. 
So, it appears to me that Acumen has shown the figures in the manner that it has in order to 
support its findings, rather than to represent Mr S likely position in retirement.
Further and most notably the model is based on a regular investment return of 6.2% a year. 
That seems very high for someone like Mr S with a medium attitude to risk. As I've said 
above the discount rate for retirement at age 58 was 4.2%, well below the growth rate in 
Acumen's model. Also the regulators middle projection rate at the time was 5%. So its 
anything but clear why Acumen chose to use an inflated growth rate of 6.2%, that doesn't 
appear representative of any industry standard, for a medium risk investor. It follows that I 
dont find Acumen's model reliable. And, instead of making it clear to Mr S that he would 
likely be worse off in retirement by transferring, it gave the impression that his income 
security was less likely to be compromised. I don't think that was fair. 
So, given that transferring would most likely see Mr S worse off in retirement, for this reason 
alone, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer.Acumen's justified the transfer saying, in part, that it allowed Mr S to retire early and to 
access his funds flexibly. But Mr S didnt need to give up the guaranteed benefits of his DB 
scheme in order to achieve those things. 
Mr S was clearly considering early retirement, although the comment that his plans might 
change in the future indicate that those wishes weren't concrete. So they were likely to 
change as his early retirement age approached. But in any event, if Mr S had insisted on 
early retirement then both the BSPS2 and the PPF would allow him to do that. Although his 
benefits under those schemes would have been subject to actuarial reductions to reflect the 
fact that the pension would need to sustain him over a longer period. But, there's no 
evidence Acumen made this clear to Mr S. And, as I've already said, it didnt give him details 
of his entitlements from the schemes if he took early retirement nor what the critical yields 
were to match those benefits. So I dont think Acumen gave him all the information he 
needed in order to make an informed decision.
Also, Acumen said that Mr S was prepared to accept a lower income in retirement in order to 
give him flexible access to his benefits in the manner he chose. Its true to say that Mr S 
couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his DB funds as he could from a 
personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those early, if hed wanted a TFC 
lump sum, then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular 
income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down 
funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect to 
him, Im not persuaded that Mr S had any concrete need to vary his income throughout 
retirement. But, if he believed he did there was no requirement for him to give up the 
safeguarded benefits from the DB scheme in order to have some flexible access to 
retirement funds. 
Acumen had noted that Mr S and his employer had begun contributing to a recently set up 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. There are conflicting figures on file but it seems 
that Mr S and his employer were together contributing around 16% of Mr S salary to that 
pension. That was around £5,530 a year. He could have anticipated continuing to contribute 
to that pension (or a similar one if he were to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of 
his working life. So by the time Mr S reached early retirement age, his DC pension should 
have built a sizeable pot. Indeed without allowing for Mr S increasing his contributions, his 
salary growing, or any return on the investment, by age 58 he could have a pot in the DC 
pension of around £78,500, by age 65 that could have increased to around £115,000.
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr S with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr S could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr S 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new DC pension, would have likely given 
him the flexibility to retire early - if that was what he ultimately decided.
In addition if Acumen had advised Mr S to join the BSPS2 and he decided he needed 
greater flexibility than the scheme provided, then he could have chosen to transfer from that 
scheme nearer to his retirement age. That was still over 14 years away. And I think this was 
something he could have explored closer to his intended retirement age, it wasnt a decision 
he needed to make straightaway.
I've noted Acumen said in its draft reply to Mr S complaint (which he didnt receive), that at 
the time of the advice it couldn't recommend a transfer to the BSPS2 because there was no 
certainty it would come into existence. I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. 
But details of the scheme had been provided and the time to choose exercise had concluded 
when Acumen gave its advice. And all the communications from the scheme trustees were 
very optimistic that the BSPS2 operating conditions would be met. So, I think Acumen should have factored the benefits available through the BSPS2 into its analysis. But it didn't 
do so.
Acumen also said the death benefits available from the personal pension were of a higher 
priority to Mr S than his income in retirement. That might have been the case. But Acumen 
was tasked with advising Mr S about what was best for his retirement. And the existing 
scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension and dependents benefits, that 
could have been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
If following the transfer to a personal pension Mr S had died immediately then the CETV sum 
would have been paid to his wife as a death benefit. I understand that would most likely have 
appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But, in reality, the sum remaining on death 
following a transfer was always likely to be different. How much would remain in the fund on 
Mr S death depended on a number of factors. And there may not have been a large sum left 
in Mr S personal pension if he lived a long life, the investments performed poorly or if he 
took large sums from the fund early in his retirement. In any event, Acumen should not have 
encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr S had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for the same 
employer. But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his job, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Acumen 
should have instead explored life insurance. I appreciate life insurance can be expensive. 
So, the starting point ought to have been for Acumen to ask Mr S how much he would ideally 
like to leave to his family, and this could have been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis. But there's little evidence it did so
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. Also I dont think insurance was properly explored 
as an alternative. And ultimately Acumen should not have encouraged Mr S to prioritise the 
potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
I've also noted that, as well as saying that BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed, Acumen said the PPF 
was considered to be an undesirable outcome. I understand that Mr S may have 
legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension and the 
prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Acumens role to objectively address those 
concerns. As I've already said, at the time, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established. But even if not, the PPF would still provide Mr S with guaranteed income and 
the option of accessing TFC. Mr S was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. 
So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr S best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr S would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the 
DB scheme. 
For the above reasons I think Acumen's advice to Mr S to transfer out of the DB scheme and 
into a personal pension was unsuitable for him as it was not in his best interests. So, I think 
Acumen should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
 Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely remained in the DB scheme and maintained his choice to join the BSPS2 if 
Acumen had given suitable advice. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Acumen based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
personal pension offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could 
be augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Acumen may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr S 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr S likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also, as I think that learning that he might have unnecessarily put his pension funds at risk 
was a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr S, I think Acumen should also pay him 
£300 to address that.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman