DRN-3933394
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) account closure 
processes.
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs P wanted to close her credit card and personal reserve accounts with 
M&S. M&S needed to send nil balance statements to Mrs P before the accounts could be 
closed. On 23 June 2021, M&S sent the outstanding credit balances to Mrs P - £39.43 on 
the credit card, £56.95 on the personal reserve. The closing statements were sent to Mrs P 
on 11 July 2021 (credit card) and 9 July 2021 (personal reserve).
Mrs P complained. She couldnt see why a closing statement had to be sent  she said the 
balances were credit so couldnt see why that was necessary. After the accounts were 
closed, Mrs P received some marketing literature from M&S  in November 2022.
M&S said that the closing balances were sent to Mrs P on 23 June 2021  when she 
emailed them. And the closing statements were sent on 11 July 2021 (credit card) and 9 July 
2021 (personal reserve). After that, her accounts would be closed. They said no further 
marketing literature would be sent to Mrs P  but it may take up to three months to change 
that as some promotions were prepared in advance. 
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said M&S acted reasonably in terms of 
the need for closing statements. But he said that for Mrs P to continue to receive marketing 
literature so soon after the accounts were closed wasnt reasonable. For that, he said M&S 
should pay compensation of £75.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said her data had been misused by M&S. She said the 
compensation wasnt enough. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. So  it 
has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mrs Ps comments to our investigator. So at the outset let me say what our role is 
here. This service exists to resolve individual disputes between customers and financial 
businesses. We arent the regulator of M&S  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So  here, its for M&S to 
make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its business. But we do say if a 
customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably  based on the individual 
circumstances of their complaint. We do this based on the facts of the case as we see them, 
having taken evidence from both parties. We dont take sides  we are not a consumer 
group.
Mrs Ps original complaint was that she had to wait for closing statements to be sent to her 
before her two accounts could be closed. Ive looked at the operating procedures for both 
the credit card and personal reserve accounts. They say that M&S process is to issue a 
closing statement showing a nil balance  before closing an account. This is to ensure that 
there isnt any outstanding interest or charges to be applied before closing the accounts. I 
know that Mrs P challenged our investigator about whether he had seen the processes for 
the personal reserve  I confirm I have done. 
In Mrs Ps case, I can see that the credit balances were sent to her on 23 June 2021  but 
due to M&S processes, the closing statements were then sent on 9 July 2021 and 11 July 
2021. And the accounts couldnt be closed until then. I appreciate that Mrs P feels this was 
inconvenient. I can see she wanted to end her relationship with M&S as soon as she could  
but I dont think it was unreasonable that she had to wait for just over two weeks for closing 
statements and for the accounts to be closed. 
During our investigation - M&S sent some marketing literature to Mrs P. This was long after 
her accounts were closed. This was despite that M&S had said in their final response that it 
would stop. We looked into this with M&S and they apologised  it was down to human error 
as the database hadnt been properly updated. Our investigator said M&S should pay 
compensation of £75. Mrs P says it should be more  but I dont agree. I havent seen any 
evidence of how M&S error affected her in a way that might justify a higher amount of 
compensation. Mrs P has said she had contacted the Information Commissioners Office and 
complained further to M&S about this  and shes entitled to do that. But as far as her 
complaint to this service is concerned, Mrs Ps complaint on this point is closed by this final 
decision.
I can see Mrs P was frustrated by what happened with her request close her accounts with 
M&S, and I accept she will be disappointed by my decision, but I am agreeing that M&S pay 
compensation of £75 to her  in respect of the marketing mailing sent in error. But M&S 
acted reasonably in terms of their closure of her credit card and personal reserve accounts.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must:
Pay compensation of £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman