DRN-2885052
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Santander UK Plc because it hasnt refunded transactions to gambling 
websites which hes says he didnt auhtorise.
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties. And prior to issuing this final decision 
Ive discussed the circumstances with Mr C directly. And so I dont intend to set out a 
detailed background here.
Mr C raised a dispute with the bank regarding card payments to two different 
gambling websites. The transactions flagged by him were made between 
15 June 2020 and 30 June 2020 with website 1 and 8 July 2020 with website 2.
There was a misunderstanding about what chargeback reason should be used for 
the dispute. Mr C and Santander began discussing this issue on 8 July 2020.
There were then a series of things Mr C was unhappy about. These included the time 
it was taking to process his claim and missing disclaimer forms. 
The bank paid Mr C a total of £180 for errors it had made over the course of his 
dispute.
Santander ultimately didnt refund Mr Cs dispute. It said he hadnt received the 
properly completed forms back once it had fully established the details of his dispute.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service as he thought hed done all he needed to 
and believed he was still due a refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already explained to Mr C that I wouldnt be upholding his complaint. One of the main 
reasons for this is that I believe hes been disingenuous when bringing the dispute to us and 
I dont believe hes come to us with clean hands.
I say as much because, once the complaint came to us, Mr Cs description of the dispute 
changed significantly compared to what he told the bank. Hes said to us that the 
transactions that are the subject of this complaint were unauthorised; he says he didnt make 
them at all. He also says that is what hes told to the bank all along. But the evidence does 
not support that position.
The bank has been able to supply a lot of notes from different conversations it had with 
Mr C. Nowhere within the notes is fraud mentioned. Theres no discussion about 
unauthorised transactions. 
Instead, I can see the dispute was originally raised as goods and services not received, 
which Mr C disagreed with. He told the bank it ought to have been raised as incorrect 
amounts taken.   
Theres further evidence of how Mr C described his dispute in the form of the first disclaimer 
that Mr C completed and submitted to the bank. Hes clearly selected on the form, which 
asks to confirm the reasons for the dispute, refund not processed' and 'goods and services 
not received'. There was an option on the form to set out any reason for the dispute that 
wasnt listed. And so Mr C could have clearly set out that he was disputing ever having made 
or authorised the transactions. But he didnt do so.
Going back to the banks notes, I can see theres a record of a conversation with Mr C on 
10 July 2020. Ive copied an excerpt from those notes below:
I can clearly see from these notes that Mr C has discussed self-exclusion from the gambling 
sites with the bank. That would seem to fit more neatly with his earlier reasons for disputing 
the payments. It also fits with some of the evidence Mr C has provided where he discusses 
matters with one of the gabling sites. The person that writes to Mr C says that the payments 
he had made ought to have been stopped and refunded. That would seem to tie up with a 
self-exclusion too.
Despite this evidence Mr C has told us he had no idea what self-exclusion was or what it 
meant. Our investigator asked him about the subject and he claimed to know nothing about 
it. But the evidence Ive seen strongly points to that not being the case.
Mr C also spoke with the bank on 11 August 2020. In this call he claimed the bank had made 
another mistake in raising the dispute with regard to payments with website 1. He told the 
bank it wasnt supposed to have disputed payments made in June 2020; it was supposed to 
have raised the dispute on payments made in July 2020. 
Its unclear why Mr C would have signed a disclaimer that clearly stated transactions for 
June and not July. Clearly that wouldnt have been right. And it would also mean that Mr C 
was saying by this time that the payments in June 2020 were in fact authorised and nothing 
had gone wrong with them. But that he was now saying something had gone wrong with the 
payments in July 2020. It would seem strange for him to have had genuine transactions to 
the gambling site one week and then disputed transactions the next.  
Mr C has provided evidence of contact with one of the gambling sites. I can see hes used a 
live chat function to discuss possible accounts held in his name and he looks to be seeking 
some account history. And whilst I agree with Mr C when he says it shows that the gambling 
site cant find a record of successful deposits to some specific accounts, what it does show 
is that he was aware of at least two different usernames for that website. That indicates to 
me that he knew he had multiple accounts with the gambling site. And from that I believe its 
more likely than not he knew about other accounts and the activity on them.
I have asked Mr C about all of the above issues to see if he can offer a reasonable 
explanation. But hes not been able to do so. 
Overall I find that Mr C has changed his version of events significantly and contradicted 
himself too many times for his evidence to be considered reliable. Further to that, hes given 
no explanation for how someone else might have obtained all of his personal information 
and card details to make the disputed payments without his authority. And its true that Mr C 
does use gambling sites regularly. And so, with all of that in mind, Im persuaded its more 
likely than not Mr C did know about the payments hes disputed and that he did auhtorise 
them.
That means, even if I thought Santander had made an error with the dispute process (which 
Im not persuaded it did), it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to say Mr C should now 
be refunded. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman