DRN-2813389
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable and that the interest rate was too high.
What happened
Mrs B says she shouldnt have been allowed to open the Vanquis credit card account as it 
ought to have been clear she was in financial difficulties. She says she had a poor credit 
record and would like the interest she has paid refunded. She also says the interest rate was 
too high. Mrs B says the events she complains about took place in March 2018 and that she 
lost her job.
Vanquis says Mrs B agreed to the account terms and conditions about the interest rate when 
the account was opened. It says Mrs B managed her account appropriately until she told it 
about financial difficulties in November 2017. Vanquis says it carried out appropriate checks 
on the application and on later credit limit increases. It says Mrs B declared an income of 
£45,000 when the account was opened in 2015 and had no defaults or other adverse 
information recorded on her credit file.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought Mrs B 
had agreed to the interest rate and that Vanquis carried out appropriate credit checks. The 
investigator thought it likely Mrs B losing her job led to the financial difficulties and that 
Vanquis had tried to assist her.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and in summary she says shouldnt have been lent to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mrs B, when she opened the account, would have agreed to Vanquiss 
terms and conditions about the interest rate. So, whilst I appreciate Mrs B says the interest 
rate was too high, Im satisfied that she agreed to it and following a Supreme Court case we 
cant find that an interest rate is too high and so unfair.
I have looked at the information Mrs B gave Vanquis when the account was opened in 2015 
and can see that she declared an income of £45,000 and that Vanquis carried out 
appropriate checks on that application. Lenders should carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on lending applications and those checks will of course vary depending 
on the type and amount of the lending. Im satisfied Mrs B applied for a credit facility and 
was given a relatively modest credit limit of £500. So, I dont think Vanquis made a mistake 
by approving the application and think it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. I 
also think it correctly took into account that Mrs B didnt have adverse information on her 
credit file such as a County Court Judgement and the most recent default was some time 
before the account was opened.
I have also looked at Mrs Bs account statements to decide if the credit limit increases were 
appropriate and if Vanquis carried out appropriate checks. Im satisfied Vanquis did carry out 
such checks and was entitled to consider how Mrs B managed her account. I can see she 
made required payments and, on the whole, managed her account appropriately.
I think that Mrs Bs financial position deteriorated when she lost her job and it was at that 
point that she was unable to manage her Vanquis account. I cant fairly hold Vanquis 
responsible for that and dont think it could have anticipated that when the account was 
opened or when it approved the credit limit increases. I think Vanquis tried to assist Mrs B at 
that point and acted positively and sympathetically. I appreciate Mrs B doesnt complain 
about that or those actions.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs Bs financial position was significantly impacted by the loss of 
her job and that the original lending and credit limit increases were affordable based on the 
circumstances at the time. For those reasons I cant fairly order Vanquis refund any interest 
or charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman