DRN-1933985
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in September 2003 when Ms B applied for a credit card. Ms B says Capital One (Europe) 
plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Ms B applied for a credit card over the phone in 2003. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit card payments. The policy cost £0.79 per £100 of the balance on 
Ms Bs credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Ms B was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld because he thought Ms B 
wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Ms B disagrees. She says it wasnt explained properly that the policy was optional and it 
wasnt suitable because in the following months she became a student and wouldnt have 
been able to claim on the policy.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From what we know about how Capital One sold PPI over the phone and the call script the 
sales advisor wouldve been following at the time, I think Ms B wouldve understood the 
policy was optional. And I think Ms B wouldve had PPI applied to her account because she 
chose to take it when asked if she wanted the policy rather than anything else  although I 
can understand why he cant remember this.
From what Ive seen of the call script I dont think Capital One advised Ms B to take PPI. 
What this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Ms B, it just gave her 
information about PPI (it was up to Ms B to assess her circumstances and decide if the 
product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Capital One did give all the information Ms B needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what 
we know about Capital One policies:
Although Ms B has told us following the sale her circumstances changed and she 
wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy  at the time of the sale she was eligible 
for the PPI. It was her responsibility to inform Capital One of any change in 
circumstances that mayve made the policy no longer suitable for her needs.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Ms B says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
she could use to make her credit card payments if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay 
and savings and for potentially longer. So I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put her off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms B and she could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it. 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms B on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman