DRN-4350801
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds Bank (Lloyds) debited the wrong 
account when she requested a cash withdrawal. This caused her current account to go 
overdrawn. 
What happened
Miss K went into a branch of Lloyds to withdraw £1,000 in December 2022. She asked for 
this cash withdrawal to be debited from her saving account, but the money was instead 
withdrawn from her current account. This caused the current account to go overdrawn. Miss 
K appears to have realised this two days later and transferred £1,000 from her savings 
account to her current account. 
In June 2023, Miss K contacted our service to complain. As Lloyds hadnt been made aware 
of the complaint previously, we let Lloyds know and explained it now needed to provide a 
response to Miss K. On 10 July 2023, Lloyds issued its final response. In this it accepted a 
human error had occurred when the funds were debited from the wrong account. It said it 
could see Miss K had rectified the situation with her transfer two days later. Lloyds 
apologised and paid Miss K £30 for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Miss K asked our service to consider the matter further. She 
said she was still being charged interest on the overdraft. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and said that because of Lloyds error in debiting the current 
account, Miss K had been charged a total of £1.18 in interest. The investigator said the £30 
Lloyds had paid covered the interest charge and was fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Miss K didnt agree and wanted the case escalated. Therefore, the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K appears to believe here that as a result of the £1,000 being debited from her current 
account, and then her transferring £1,000, she is down by more than the £1,000 she initially 
requested. Having looked at the statements Id like to reassure Miss K that this isnt the 
case.
 
It isnt disputed here that Lloyds took the £1,000 cash withdrawal from the wrong account. 
But Miss K did receive £1,000 in cash at that time and obviously her balance shouldve also 
reduced by that amount. 
Miss Ks saving account balance prior to her withdrawal request was £4,001.90. The current 
account balance at the same time was £449.45. Therefore, had Lloyds debited the saving 
account instead of the current account her balance wouldve been £3,001.90 and the current 
account wouldve remained unchanged at £449.45. 
However, due to human error this didnt happen and unfortunately it was her current account 
that was debited and placed in an overdrawn position. Im pleased to see Miss K realised the 
error and transferred £1,000 from her saving to the current account. As a result, her savings 
balance was correctly then being reflected as £3,001.90. This is exactly what it wouldve 
been had the savings account been correctly debited instead of the current account two 
days previously. 
After the transfer, Miss Ks current account balance went back up by a £1,000 and back into 
credit. So, this money hasnt been lost and Miss K is down by just the £1,000 she always 
wanted and received in cash. 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that because of its error in debiting the current 
account Miss K was charged £1.18 in interest. I appreciate this situation caused Miss K a 
degree of distress and inconvenience and it no doubt wouldve been a shock to find out her 
current account was overdrawn. But by making the transfer two days later, Im satisfied Miss 
K was then in the position she shouldve always been in had the error not been made.
 
Given this, Im satisfied the total of £30 Lloyds has paid Miss K covers the interest charges 
applied and is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience that was caused by the 
error.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds Bank has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds Bank should pay £30 to Miss K, if 
it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman