DRN-3936914
The complaint
Miss C complains about a decision by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (who Ill call 
Shop Direct) to reject a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Shop Direct, but I dont think these goods have been of satisfactory 
quality. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It explains that goods should be 
of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price, and all the other relevant circumstances. It also explains 
that when we think about whether goods are of satisfactory quality, we should consider 
whether theyve been durable.
I dont think the sofa Miss C bought has been durable. Whilst Miss C bought the outdoor 
furniture in January 2022, I accept that its unlikely she would have been using them until 
later in the year when the weather was warm enough to sit out. Miss C says the arm 
snapped off the sofa in September 2022 when her son leant on it to stand up.
The suppliers engineer didnt think there was evidence the sofa was of unsatisfactory 
quality. It was his opinion that the sofa had been subject to misuse. Im not persuaded thats 
the case here. I dont think a reasonable person would consider this sofa to be suitably 
durable as the arm has fallen off within only a few months of use. I think a reasonable 
person would expect to be able to put their bodyweight on an arm in order to stand up, and 
Im not persuaded there is evidence in the engineers report that excessive force has been 
used as I cant see any other signs of damage such as splintering or dents. The arm has 
simply sheared at the joints.
Shop Direct have explained that theyve sold a lot of these sofas and havent experienced 
problems with them that would suggest any manufacturing defect with the arms. Theyve 
also explained that customer reviews have been positive and there have been no reports of 
arms falling off. Whilst that may be the case, Im required to consider each complaint on its 
individual merits and for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think this particular sofa 
has proven suitably durable.
So, I dont think the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair the goods, so I think 
Shop Direct should do that. Theyll also need to refund the costs of any inspections Miss C 
has had to pay for as she wouldnt have had to pay for them if the goods were of satisfactory 
quality. They should add interest to the refund as Miss C has been deprived of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited to:
Repair the sofa at no cost to Miss C.
Refund any inspection costs Miss C has incurred and add 8% simple interest per 
year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman