DRN-3420297
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to protect her from losing
£15,000 to a scam.
What happened
In 2019 Ms B made two payments from her HSBC account for tax services to be provided by
who I shall in this decision call Mr M.
Date Transaction type Amount (£)
7 March 2019 Mobile banking 10,000
25 April 2019 Mobile banking 5,000
Total 15,000
Ms B says she was introduced to Mr M through a contact; that the payments were for Mr M
to represent her and liaise with HMRC; she understood Mr M and his companies were
certified to carry out the offered services; but he then didnt carry out the services, and he
disappeared  and is now uncontactable.
Ms B contacted HSBC in 2020 to report the matter. HSBC was unable to recover Ms B funds
and it didnt otherwise offer to reimburse her. Ms B also, during this time, became unhappy
with HSBCs failure to update her on its investigation when she thought it should have.
HSBC paid Ms B a total of £100 for the customer service issues, but ultimately didnt
reimburse or recover Ms Bs £15,000. Remaining unhappy, Ms B referred her complaint
about HSBC to us. As we were unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been
passed to me for a decision.
I sent Ms B and HSBC my provisional decision on 16 March 2022 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. Now the parties have had an opportunity to consider this 
and respond, I am ready to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the same reasons as I 
explained in my provisional decision. Ive explained the reasons for my decision again below, 
with some further comment were appropriate to address the points Ms B made in response 
to my provisional decision. 
It is common ground that Ms B authorised the scam payments in question here. Ms B didnt,
of course, intend to lose this money to a scam, but under the Payment Services Regulations
and the terms and conditions of the account Ms B is presumed liable for the loss in the first
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Bearing this in mind, and given Ms Bs HSBC accounts previous activity, I think the £10,000
payment instruction on 7 March 2019 ought to have appeared unusual and uncharacteristic
to HSBC  a large payment to a new payee. To meet its obligations to protect Ms B from
financial harm, I think HSBC reasonably ought to have spoken to Ms B about the payment
instruction, to check everything was in order, before it processed the payment.
During this call with Ms B  had HSBC made it  HSBC reasonably ought to have asked Ms
B who the payment was for and for the basic surrounding context, and to have then
proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud
or scam. I think had this happened, Ms B would most likely have explained to HSBC what
she has since told us: that the payment was for Mr M, or his company, for tax services, and
that she had been put in touch with him through a contact.
I wouldnt necessarily expect HSBC to have left it there and to put the payment through
based on this information alone. However, I think that even if HSBC had asked some follow
up questions and advised Ms B of general caution due to possible fraud and scams  and
even if the matter had been looked into further by Ms B or HSBC before the payment was
processed  everything would most likely have ultimately appeared fine, and Ms B most
likely would have decided to proceed with the payment anyway.
I say this because Ms B was under the impression Mr M was certified to carry out the
requested services. And like our investigator, I am inclined to believe this would have
remained the case. Both relevant companies Mr M was associated with were registered on
Companies House and would appear to have undertaken tax consultancy, and Mr M had
reportedly previously worked for HMRC. I dont think there was any information available at
the time that wouldve reasonably caused suspicion of any sort of scam.
I understand that in response to my provisional decision Ms B has said that just because Mr 
Ms companies were registered on Companies House, this doesnt mean he wasnt running 
a scam  and I agree with this. Ms B has also said that Mr Ms companies are currently 
under investigation by a third party, which shes been asked to assist with, and shes sent us 
documentation supporting this. However, I dont doubt that Ms B was scammed here. Its 
just, as Ive explained, I am not persuaded there was any information available at the time 
that wouldve reasonably caused suspicion of any sort of scam. 
Ms B has indicated  and has reiterated this point in her response to my provisional decision 
 that if HSBC had told her that her payment was to be made to Mr Ms
personal account (rather than a business account), this could have made her reconsider.
However, at the time of the payment, the relevant regulations  the Payment ServicesRegulations 2017  set out that payments are sent according to the unique identifiers
(typically the account number and sort code). This means the payment was correctly
processed if it went to the account number and sort code instructed by Ms B. There was no 
regulatory requirement for HSBC to check the beneficiary name. Nor do I have any reason to
believe HSBC would have had access to information about whose account Ms B was
paying, since the beneficiary account was not held with HSBC. Further, even if, for the sake
of argument, I presumed HSBC did have this information (and I am not saying that it did), I
am not persuaded this would have made a difference. As Ive said, I dont think there was
any information available at the time that wouldve reasonably caused suspicion of any sort
of scam. And I think that even if Ms B had been extremely cautious and questioned with Mr
M why he was requesting payment to his personal account, its most likely that he would
have given a plausible reason why this was preferable and Ms B, given the lack of any other
reason not to, would most likely have found this to be plausible enough.
It follows that even if I thought HSBC should have spoken to Ms B about her second
payment of £5,000 on 25 April 2019 (and Im not saying I think it should have, because this
payment was smaller and wasnt to a new payee), I think for the same reasons it wouldnt
have made a difference.
With regards to recovery, I am satisfied from the information Ive seen that by the time Ms B
reported the issue with the payments to HSBC, the money had already been removed from
the beneficiary account  so HSBC would have been unable to recover it. I am also satisfied
the £100 HSBC paid Ms B for the customer service issues is fair and reasonable.
This means that I dont uphold this complaint. I am, of course, sorry Ms B has lost such a 
significant amount of money. And I accept she has most likely been the victim of a cruel and 
callous scam. But being a victim in this way doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from 
HSBC. Nor can I decide this case based on how other victims may or may not have been 
fortunate enough to recover their money  I have to decide this case based on its own 
individual merits. It would only be fair for me to tell HSBC to reimburse Ms B if I thought it 
either caused the loss or hindered recovery. And as I dont think it did  for reasons 
explained above  I cant fairly tell HSBC to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman