DRN-3892694
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc irresponsibly approved a loan application which was 
not affordable
What happened
Mr A says he took out a Santander loan in March 2021 for about £7,000 on behalf of another 
person. He says Santander shouldnt have lent to him as the application was for a car loan, 
but he didnt drive. Mr A says appropriate checks were not carried out and he was not 
working at the time of the application but a student. He would like the interest refunded and 
the loan written off. Mr A says the loan was for £7,000 which would have been excessive for 
a first car and that he hadnt passed his driving test.
Santander says it carried out appropriate checks on the application. It says Mr A told it he 
was in employment earning just under £2,000 a month and that he had limited outgoings. 
Santander says there was no adverse information on Mr As credit file and its calculations 
showed that the loan was affordable.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
appropriate checks initially were carried out but thought Santander should have checked the 
income position. The investigator thought further checks would have shown the loan was 
unaffordable and recommended Santander should refund interest.
Santander doesnt accept that view and says Mr A has published information online that 
says he was working at the time. It says it isnt responsible for what Mr A did with the money 
and questions why he provided, what he now says was incorrect information in 
circumstances where he signed the application form stating the information was correct.
Mr A says he started an internship in March 2021.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and thought that Santander carried out 
appropriate checks on Mr As loan application.
I explained that Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any loan 
or credit application and ensure that any lending can be appropriately repaid. Those checks 
will of course vary depending on the type and amount of the lending. This was not for 
example a mortgage application but a loan for about £7,000. So, I wouldnt have expected 
Santanders checks to have been as detailed compared to that type of lending, but of course 
appropriate checks must be carried out.
I looked carefully at Mr As application and the checks Santander carried out. I could see Mr 
A told Santander he was working and gave information about the loan purpose. I 
appreciated Mr A says he couldnt drive and that he gave the money to a family friend, but I 
couldnt see how Santander could have known that or known about Mr As driving status. I 
didnt think its for Santander to question how much Mr A ought to have been spending on a 
car.
I was satisfied that the checks Santander carried out showed Mr A had no adverse 
information on his credit file and no existing loan or credit card accounts. And that Mr A held 
a Santander bank account for some years before the loan application. I could see from Mr 
As bank account statements that his bank account was well run with a balance of over 
£1,000 in the days before the loan application. So, I was satisfied that appropriate checks 
were carried out on Mr As application and that on the face of it his repayments would have 
been affordable. I could also see from Mr As account that there were relatively large credits 
of over £2,000 made into it. It may have been they were from student loans, but I couldnt 
see how Santander would have been aware of the true financial picture unless Mr A 
explained what the credits related to. I didnt think it clear why Mr A provided what he now 
says was incorrect information or why he says Santander ought to have been aware of the 
true position.
I appreciated Mr A says what he declared in the application was not correct and that he was 
a student. I looked at the document Mr A has published about himself which is available 
online. I was satisfied that document says Mr A was in employment at the time of the loan 
and provides details of all of the jobs Mr A has held. I could also see that there was a credit 
in Mr As bank account of nearly £3,000 from an organisation that Mr A said he was working 
for or carrying out an internship at. And that Mr As bank account continued to have a credit 
balance in the months following the loan application. So, whilst I accepted there may have 
been an exaggeration in Mr As published previous job history, the question for me to decide 
was if Santander ought reasonably to have realised that and carried out further checks.
I was satisfied this was a loan for well under £10,000 from Mr A who didnt have any adverse 
information on his credit file. I was also satisfied that Santander was reasonably entitled to 
consider Mr As account management which showed no signs of financial difficulties and his 
positive account balance. I didnt think there anything to suggest the loan was unaffordable 
or that Santander could reasonably have known Mr A had provided inflated income details. I 
could also see that the loan has continued to be repaid which suggests it was affordable. I 
said if Mr A thinks he has been the victim of fraud, then he will need to complain to the 
Police about such matters.
Overall, I was satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out on Mr As loan 
application and there were no signs of unaffordability that Santander ought reasonably to 
have been aware of. I appreciated Santander says Mr A could provide his tax information 
about his income. But I didnt consider that necessary unless Mr A considers that a letter 
from His Majestys Revenue and Customs confirming his total income for the tax years 
2020/2021 and 2021/22 would be of assistance.
Mr A doesnt accept my provisional decision and says he would like Santander to change the 
loan structure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the exact same reasons. If Mr A wishes to alter the terms of his loan, then 
he will need to speak to Santander about that.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman