DRN-2764033
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that two term assurances policies sold by Lloyds Bank PLC to protect 
borrowing were mis-sold. They say they werent told the cover was optional and complain 
that when the borrowing was repaid Lloyds didnt cancel the cover.
What happened
In 2003, Mr and Mrs J met with Lloyds and reviewed their existing life cover. Lloyds 
recommended that Mr and Mrs J replace an existing policy that protected their business 
borrowing as it would be cheaper. The new policy would still cover the outstanding borrowing 
over the remaining term. The policy was to be assigned to the lender. 
Two years later, Mr and Mrs J took out additional business borrowing. Lloyds recommended 
Mr and Mrs J protect the new borrowing using life and critical illness policies on each of their 
lives. Mr J applied and was accepted for life and critical illness cover for the amount and 
term of the new borrowing. Mrs Js application was deferred for six months and was never 
put in place.
In 2010, Mr and Mrs J consolidated and increased their borrowing, but didnt take any further 
protection. This new borrowing was repaid in full in 2015.
Mr and Mrs J continued to pay the premiums on the two policies until 2018. 
Mr and Mrs J complained to Lloyds that the policies they sold in 2003 and 2005 were mis-
sold. They said Lloyds had told them the policies were compulsory and were required so 
they could borrow. And that Lloyds hadnt considered their existing cover and assets 
wouldve provided enough protection. They said they felt pressured into taking out the 
policies. Mr and Mrs J further complained that when they refinanced in 2010, Lloyds didnt 
review the policies and they werent fit for purpose. And that when they paid off the loan in 
2015, Lloyds shouldve cancelled the policies theyd sold.
Lloyds said they didnt uphold the complaint. They believed the policies protected specific 
borrowing and that the other protection policies held by Mr and Mrs J were for family and 
inheritance protection. Lloyds said the other policies werent appropriate to protect the 
borrowing but the policies they sold were. They said it was Mr and Mrs Js responsibility to 
cancel the policies when they were no longer required.
As Mr and Mrs J werent happy with the response from Lloyds they brought their complaint 
to our service and are represented by a third-party. One of our investigators looked into 
things and thought the policies hadnt been mis-sold by Lloyds. Our investigator thought that 
Mr and Mrs J couldve cancelled the policies as they werent compulsory and thought Lloyds 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs J representative didnt accept what our investigator said and asked that an 
ombudsman decides the complaint. Its been passed to me to consider. Mr and Mrs J asked 
me to consider Lloyds put them under great pressure to take out the 2005 policy when their 
banking relationship manager arrived with an unannounced colleague who was an insurance 
adviser. They believe they told their banking relationship manager the policies should be 
stopped when the loans were repaid in 2015, but the premiums were still collected for 
several more years. Mr and Mrs J feel that their other assets would have protected any 
outstanding loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as our 
investigator I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why Ive made this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs J have told me they believe their main complaint relates to the sale of the policy 
in 2005. I consider it may be useful to understand what happened before this sale as it will 
provide some valuable background.
Sale of 2003 policy
In 2003, Mr and Mrs J had existing business borrowing theyd taken out in 1998. Lloyds met 
with them in 2003 and the financial review document Ive seen identified a need to replace 
the existing policy with a new one as the cost of life cover was now cheaper. Lloyds 
recommended a new mortgage protection policy for the outstanding balance on the loan, 
and for the remaining term. This was the only need agreed at this review. The review noted 
the existing policy, which was a requirement of the bank lending, would be cancelled when 
the new cover was in place.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js comment that they had assets and other cover to protect 
their borrowing, but Im satisfied the policy Lloyds sold was suitable. It provided the level of 
cover required to replace the existing cover and it was cheaper. This was the basis for it 
being taken. Ive seen there were individual term assurance policies in place for Mr and Mrs 
J, and a Whole of Life policy in joint names. I wouldnt consider a Whole of Life policy 
suitable to cover a business loan as the level of cover can change, the premium can be 
affected by investment performance and there is no fixed term. In any event, I can also see 
the Whole of Life policy was taken to provide mitigation against inheritance tax (IHT). The 
level term cover policies in place specifically provided family protection, and I wouldnt 
consider these suitable to protect a business loan arranged on a capital and interest 
repayment basis. 
The suitability letter dated 30 January 2003 says that the new policy was to be assigned to 
the bank. This policy was replacing an existing policy that was a requirement of the existing 
bank lending. I therefore consider Mr and Mrs J would reasonably have been aware that this 
policy was a requirement of the existing loan.
Sale of 2005 policy
In respect of the 2005 policy, which Mr and Mrs J say is their main complaint, Ive 
considered what Lloyds took into account before they recommended this policy. The 
financial review document completed at the time recorded the existing Whole of Life policy 
(for IHT), the existing policy Lloyds sold in 2003, and the two existing level term policies. The 
review document also recorded separate new business borrowing over 17 years of £45,000.
For the same reasons I have given above I dont consider it wouldve been suitable advice to 
use a Whole of Life policy, or the level term assurance policies to provide protection for the 
new borrowing. The suitability letter Lloyds sent in 2005 recommended life and critical illness cover for Mr 
and Mrs J of £45,000 for 17 years, which was the need agreed. I consider the mortgage 
protection policies recommended here were suitable to protect the new borrowing. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js comments they felt pressured in to buying the policies as 
their banking relationship manager brought along an insurance adviser unannounced. And 
that they were told if they didnt take out the cover the loan may not have been forthcoming. 
Ive also considered the comments from Lloyds that Mr and Mrs J were provided with a 
suitability letter and decided to only take out cover on Mr J. And that the insurance adviser 
told them in the suitability letter the policy from 2005 could be written in trust. Lloyds say this 
suggests Mr and Mrs J were aware the policy wasnt compulsory.
Its difficult for me to be sure what happened more than 15 years ago, especially when both 
parties have provided different accounts. So, Ive decided to consider what is likely to have 
happened when this policy was recommended.
The need for life and critical illness cover to protect the new borrowing was detailed in the 
financial review and the summary of discussions letter Lloyds sent to Mr and Mrs J. Unlike 
the earlier 2003 recommendation, theres no reference to the policies being compulsory, or 
that they must be taken to obtain the loan. And, the suitability letter said the policy could be 
written under trust, which adds some weight that these policies werent compulsory.
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs J the 2005 
policies were a condition of the lending and there is no evidence they were. I can understand 
Mr and Mrs J may have felt some pressure to take the policies recommended. They werent 
expecting an insurance adviser to accompany their banking relationship manager, but that 
doesnt mean these policies were mis-sold. It seems to me the insurance advisor identified 
and agreed a need for the life and critical illness cover with Mr and Mrs J. The policies 
recommended were suitable to protect the loan in case of death or critical illness. The policy 
for Mrs J was postponed for six-months and ultimately this was never put on risk. This adds 
weight to my view its more likely these policies werent needed for the loan to be approved. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js view that their disposable assets were enough to clear their 
borrowings. Assets such as stock and machinery can be difficult to sell quickly and taking 
such action would likely have a significant effect on the business. So, I dont consider that 
any of the policies Lloyds put in place to protect the borrowings of Mr and Mrs J were mis-
sold as they met the agreed needs to pay-off the loans without the need to liquidate assets.
Cancelling the 2003 and 2005 policies
Mr and Mrs J say that they refinanced in 2010, and Lloyds have confirmed there was a 
consolidation loan taken at this time, but no further life cover was considered. Mr and Mrs J 
were left with the cover the policies taken out in 2003 and 2005 provided. It seems unlikely 
to me that this new borrowing required policies to be taken as there is no testimony or 
evidence to suggest this was the case.
In their response to the thoughts of our investigator, Mr and Mrs J say they asked for the 
policies to be stopped in late 2015 when they paid off the loan theyd taken in 2010. The 
existing policies continued until Mr and Mrs J cancelled them in March 2018.
Mr and Mrs Js say they recall telling their banking relationship manager to cancel the 
policies in 2015 when they paid off their loans. They also say they believed the policies 
wouldve been cancelled automatically when the loan was paid-off in 2015. Ive considered these comments and Ive taken into account the policy contact records provided by Lloyds 
show there were no instructions to cancel the policies until 2018. 
By 2015, it seems likely Mr and Mrs J wouldve been aware these policies werent 
compulsory or assigned to the borrowing. This is because the borrowing they took out in 
2010 doesnt appear to have involved any discussion about life cover. So, I dont consider 
the responsibility to cancel the policies falls on Lloyds here, and I see no reason why the 
policies would automatically be cancelled. Mr and Mrs J didnt ask Lloyds to review their 
protection at the time the new loan was taken out in 2010, and its not a requirement for 
Lloyds to review the loan protection if they arent asked to. 
When Mr and Mrs J paid off the loan in 2015, I consider it was their responsibility to ensure 
the policies were cancelled. I understand they recall telling their banking relationship 
manager at the bank they no longer needed or wanted the policies, but at the time these 
werent assigned or a condition of the borrowing. The records provided by Lloyds show no 
contact in relation to the polices from inception until 2018 when they were cancelled by Mr 
and Mrs J. 
Taking all the above into account, I consider it more likely Mr and Mrs J assumed the 
policies would be cancelled automatically and didnt realise the payments were still being 
collected for three years. I dont consider Lloyds are responsible for this and I dont think 
they did anything wrong here, and I wouldve expected them to pay out any valid claim 
during this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman