DRN-2921083
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his travel insurance claim. My 
references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mr D has travel insurance through his bank account, Aviva is the insurer. In February 2020 
Mr D booked his ticket to travel for a few days in May 2020 to a European country using the 
Eurotunnel. He planned to stay with a friend.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel so Mr D cancelled his ticket in April 2020. The travel provider told him the 
ticket was non-refundable. But as gesture of goodwill it offered him a credit voucher of the 
same value as his cancelled ticket towards an alternative ticket to be used by 4 May 2021 
with a further 12 months to amend once hed made a booking.
Mr D didnt want the voucher. He claimed on his travel insurance for the cost of his ticket. 
Aviva declined the claim. The policy only covers non-recoverable costs. It said as the travel 
provider offered to reimburse the cost with a rebooking or credit note there was no cover.
Mr D complained to us saying as he wasnt in a position to take the trip at a later date the 
voucher had no value to him. He wants Aviva to pay the claim and compensation of £25 for 
his time spent on the complaint.
Our investigator thought Aviva fairly declined the claim.
Mr D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the purpose of his trip had 
been to visit a friend who had now returned to the UK and he had no other reason to make 
the trip.
Before I made a decision I asked Mr D to send us the voucher so I could read the terms. Our 
investigator then contacted the travel provider to ask if it would extend the vouchers expiry 
date, given the travel restrictions at that time, and whether the voucher was redeemable just 
for a ticket to the same destination of Mr Ds cancelled trip or any destination.
The travel provider told us it had sent Mr D a new voucher in May 2021 valid for 12 months 
on the same terms as the old voucher. The travel provider explained that meant if Mr D 
waited until the last day the voucher was valid to book a ticket he could then extend it for a 
further 12 months, so potentially he could use the voucher to travel until May 2023. The 
travel provider also told us the Eurotunnel ticket operated by Mr D taking his car by train 
from Folkestone to Calais and he was then able to drive anywhere he wanted to.
Our investigator sent the information we received from the travel provider to Mr D and asked
for his comments by a specific date. Mr D didnt respond.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
The policy covers non recoverable travel costs if Mr D cancels a trip due to FCO advice 
against all but essential travel. But the policy specifically excludes costs recoverable from 
the travel provider.
The travel providers offer of a voucher in 2020 meant that in effect Mr D had recovered the 
train costs from the provider, in the form of a voucher. So I think Aviva fairly declined the 
claim in 2020. The travel provider has now extended the voucher to May 2022.
Ive considered the reasons Mr D gave as to why he thinks its unreasonable for Aviva to 
expect him to accept the voucher. But I dont think the terms of the voucher are so restrictive 
that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mr D to accept the voucher in the 
circumstances.
The travel provider has reissued a new voucher to use as credit towards buying a ticket. At 
the time of making my decision there are some travel restrictions in place. But Ive detailed 
above the travel providers explanation about how Mr D could use the voucher to travel until 
May 2023 so Mr D has nearly two more years to travel using this voucher. Mr D may not 
want to book a trip to the destination of the cancelled trip now that his friend is no longer 
there. But the travel provider says that once Mr D has used the Eurotunnel ticket to Calais 
there is no restriction on his destination.
I cant fairly say the voucher terms are so restrictive that the voucher has no value to Mr D, 
which is what he suggests.
Im satisfied that its fair for Aviva to expect that it in the circumstances Mr D should 
reasonably accept the voucher. Aviva can fairly decline the claim.
Aviva doesnt need to pay Mr D compensation for the time he took to make this complaint. 
I generally dont award compensation for the time a consumer spends in making a complaint 
to a business and/or us and theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Aviva or Mr D responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold the 
complaint. Aviva fairly declined the claim and doesnt need to pay Mr D any compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman