DRN-3637752
The complaint
Mr V complains about the service he received from Trading 212 UK Limited when taking up 
a rights issue.
What happened
In September 2021 Trading 212 sent Mr V an email about a rights issue for a business I will 
call E. Mr V clicked on the link in the email which fully subscribed him to the rights issue. 
This wasnt what Mr V was expecting as he thought he would be given the opportunity to 
review the information before actually subscribing, so he complained to Trading 212.
Trading 212 said they believe the wording on the email was clear, fair and not misleading so 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr V remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators 
considered what happened and was satisfied that Trading 212 were clear in their 
communications and hadnt acted unfairly or made any errors. Mr V disagreed so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr V that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
aspects of the complaint which reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point as Im satisfied that I 
understand the crux of the complaint which is that Mr V says Trading 212 failed to inform him 
of the ramifications of clicking the link in the email. 
To start Ive looked at the email Trading 212 sent to Mr V. This shows the amount of E stock 
Mr V held as well as the amount of preferential stock he was entitled to buy, and the total 
price for the offering. The email then goes on to say:
To subscribe to the rights issue in full simply click here. Please make sure you have 
sufficient funds to place the order.
Having looked at the email as a whole, and in particular the sentences above, Im satisfied 
Trading 212 made clear that clicking on the link in the email would subscribe Mr V to the 
rights issue in full. 
However it turns out that the email wasnt the only communication Trading 212 sent about 
the rights issue. A notification with slightly different wording was displayed when customers 
logged into the Trading 212 website. Mr V says that had the information in that notification 
been communicated by email he wouldve been more fully informed about the actions he 
was going to undertake. 
Looking at the information in the notification I can see why Mr V says he wouldve wanted 
this information in the email as it gave a differently worded explanation about what would 
happen. But I dont think this means the email sent my Trading 212 was unclear. I think the 
email is clear as a standalone communication, regardless of the notification which Mr V says 
Trading 212 didnt send him. 
Trading 212 offer an execution only service meaning they dont provide investment advice. 
Customers can however contact Trading 212 to clarify information if they are unsure about 
any information they have been provided with.
Mr V says that the way in which the rights issue for E operated was different to other rights 
issues in a few different ways. This might be the case, however its not the role of this 
service to tell businesses what policies and procedures they can put in place. 
I think the email about the rights issue sent by Trading 212 is the most important issue here. 
Mr V says he expected a different course of action when he clicked on the link in the email 
due to past experiences. However Im happy the email provided clear information about the 
rights issue and wasnt misleading.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Trading 212 acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr V and the rights issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman