DRN-3688944
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) inappropriately shared their data.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P had a joint current account with Lloyds.
In early 2022 Mrs and Mr P were engaging with a debt charity and had given it consent to 
obtain information about them to assist with the support being given. However, they later 
decided they no longer wished to engage with the debt charity and the evidence indicates 
that they contacted Lloyds to confirm they didnt want it to send any information to the debt 
charity on 15 February 2022.
Mrs and Mr P found out the debt charity had later received their bank statements from 
Lloyds despite their request for this information not to be shared. Mrs and Mr P said that as a 
result of Lloydss mistake Mr P ended up having a breakdown and required a lengthy stay in 
hospital followed by further care which cost him approximately £5000. They complained to 
Lloyds and asked it to compensate them as well as pay for the cost of Mr Ps treatment.
Lloyds looked into things and whilst it had no record it had sent the statements, it accepted 
that it may well have done and upheld the complaint. It apologised for the error and paid 
Mrs and Mr P £20 compensation. It also offered to cover call costs if Mrs and Mr P sent it 
evidence of these.
Mrs and Mr P remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our Service. They felt Lloyds 
should cover the costs incurred by Mr Ps private medical treatment.
Our Investigator looked into things and initially didnt uphold the complaint  this was based 
on the fact there was no evidence Lloyds had actually shared the statements.
In response Mrs and Mr P said they could provide such evidence and it was confirmed that 
Lloyds had sent the statements to the debt charity on 16 February 2022.
As part of his review of the complaint, our Investigator also asked Mrs and Mr P about why 
the disclosure of this information had had such an impact on Mr P. He noted that Mrs and 
Mr P were already engaging with the debt charity and therefore it would already have had an 
awareness of their financial circumstances. Mrs and Mr P said that following the disclosure 
of these statements by Lloyds, they started receiving debt letters and were told about bailiffs 
- they felt this action was triggered by Lloydss wrongdoing.
Based on this, the Investigator told both parties they were now upholding the complaint and 
agreed Lloyds had made an error. However, they didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything 
further because they didnt think there was a link between the debt collection/bailiffs and 
Lloydss mistake.
Mrs and Mr P disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I spoke to the debt charity who confirmed that Mrs and Mr P had entered into an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) at that time with their creditors. An IVA is a legally binding 
agreement which can avoid bankruptcy. The bank statements were requested by the IVA 
supervisor, who worked at the debt charity, as part of their annual review of Mrs and Mr Ps 
financial circumstances. This review was a requirement under the terms of the IVA and the 
debt charity confirmed that under the IVA agreement, they had the power to request 
information they needed regardless of whether this was something Mrs and Mr P agreed to.
The debt charity said that following receipt of the bank statements they noticed 
discrepancies between what Mrs and Mr P had told them and the financial information 
shown. This discrepancy was then shared with the creditors as evidence of a breach of the 
IVA and the IVA was ended. Debt collection activity then resumed.
Based on the available evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different outcome to the 
Investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Lloyds and Mrs and Mr P so they both 
had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. In brief, I said that it 
was reasonable of Lloyds to have shared the statements in the circumstances.
Neither party made any further comment, so Im now in a position to make a final decision on 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to read about the very difficult circumstances that both Mrs and Mr P have 
found themselves in over recent years and I would like to take the opportunity to wish them 
both the best moving forward.
But having carefully considered the evidence, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong.
The evidence indicates Lloyds did share the statements with the debt charity after it was told 
not to. However, these documents were requested by an insolvency practitioner at the debt 
charity who had a responsibility to investigate Mrs and Mr Ps financial circumstances as part 
of their role as the IVA supervisor.
So regardless of whether Mrs and Mr P wanted the debt charity to receive these statements 
at this stage, the IVA supervisor had the power to request and obtain this information without 
their further consent  as Mrs and Mr P had already provided consent when agreeing to the 
terms of the IVA.
This means that even if Mrs and Mr P told Lloyds they didnt want this information shared, I 
dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably by providing this information as it did so to someone 
who had the power and authority to request the information regardless.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jade CunninghamOmbudsman