DRN-3973703
The complaint
Mrs O complains that she received unsuitable investment advice from St. Jamess Place 
Wealth Management Plc (SJP).
In particular Mrs O says:
- the SJP adviser did not explain that he was not an independent financial adviser (IFA);
- the adviser did not provide her with copies of the information he recorded about her 
personal and financial circumstances, or with information about the fees and charges for the 
investments he recommended;
- the advice to move her stocks and shares ISA to SJP meant she incurred an initial charge 
for little, if any, benefit;
- she was not made aware of the initial charges on the unit trust investment she was advised 
to take out; and 
- she was told that the unit trust investment would generate an income of around £12,000 
per year.
What happened
I understand that Mrs O was introduced to her SJP adviser in 2009, and the adviser started 
providing Mrs O with ongoing financial advice in 2015. 
In April 2015, Mrs O was advised to invest £7,000 from deposit based savings she held, into 
a stocks and shares ISA with SJP. In 2016, Mrs W was then advised to transfer funds to her 
SJP ISA, from an existing stocks and shares ISA she held with another provider. The value 
of the ISA funds transferred to SJP was around £12,000.
In 2017, Mrs O received advice on investing around £180,000 from an inheritance she had 
received. £20,000 was invested in her stocks and shares ISA with SJP. The remaining funds 
were invested in an SJP Unit Trust Feeder.
 At the time the initial advice was given in 2015, the adviser recorded that Mrs O was 52 
years old and was married with two adult children. She and her husband owned their home 
outright and had no outstanding debts or large planned expenses for the foreseeable future. 
 Mrs O was working part time and her husband was in full time employment. Information 
recorded by the adviser at that time, indicated that Mrs and Mr O had a monthly surplus of 
income over expenditure of around £700. As well as deposit based savings Mrs O held 
pension savings and the stocks and shares ISA she subsequently transferred to SJP.
Mrs Os attitude to investment risk was assessed as medium and the adviser described this 
to mean:
You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. 
You are comfortable with most of your capital being invested in equities and property, some 
of it overseas. You realise that there may be significant falls in the value of your investments, 
and that accepting this risk gives you the potential to achieve better long-term returns.
In mid-2021, Mrs O complained to SJP about the investment advice she had received from 
its adviser. 
SJP did not uphold Mrs Os complaint. It said, in summary, that it felt the advice its adviser 
had provided had been suitable for Mrs Os personal and financial circumstances. In 
particular, it said information recorded at the time Mrs O transferred her existing stocks and 
shares ISA to SJP, in early 2016 had noted that she:
 preferred to have your investments professionally managed and regularly monitored and 
you did not want to be responsible for the weighting of the asset class selection of your 
investments.
It also said that its records showed:
You also wanted to continue to benefit from [name of advisers] ongoing service and advice 
on your investments.
It was explained that at that point you did not receive Face to Face advice and did not have 
confidence in your current arrangements.
It said that although the SJP ISA was more expensive than Mrs Os existing ISA provider, 
albeit within acceptable limits, this had been explained in the suitability letter it had sent to 
Mrs O at the time.
Mrs O was not satisfied with SJPs response and referred her complaint to this service. In 
addition to the points she had raised in her initial complaint to SJP, Mrs O also said that the 
adviser had not explained that he was not an IFA.
Having very carefully considered this complaint our investigator said they didnt think Mrs Os 
complaint should be upheld. They said they felt the advice had not been unsuitable for Mrs 
Os personal and financial circumstances and they were satisfied that the adviser had 
disclosed the fees and charges for the products that had been recommended. Likewise, they 
said they were satisfied that the adviser had made Mrs O aware that he was not an IFA.
Mrs O did not accept our investigators view. She made the following points:
- she said she felt it is very clear that the adviser did this for the purposes of 
receiving additional commission for themselves. This therefore provides clarity with 
regard to the only reason they gave me advice about these investments, it was to 
enhance their own commission for themselves. The overall relationship and how they 
sought to get fees from me cannot and should not be ignored. It is their behaviour 
that I am genuinely concerned about;
- she had not signed any key facts documents for the investments she had taken out 
with SJP, and she felt this showed that she had not agreed to the fees;
- she said notes made by the adviser at the time the advice was given, and at review 
meetings were biased towards themselves;
- the adviser had not explained, in connection with her ISA transfer that  there would 
be higher charges for transferring out and that it would now be managed and there was no differential in investment performance;
- Mrs O also reiterated that the adviser had not explained the difference between 
independent and tied advice or explain the fees and charges; and
- she said her husband had also complained about advice he had received from SJP. 
Mrs O said she felt her complaint should be considered with Mr Os complaints and 
should not be considered separately.
Our investigator responded to the points Mrs O had raised. They explained why Mrs Os 
complaint had not been considered as part of one overall complaint with the issues her 
husband had raised. They reiterated that sometimes there are instances in which one 
investment may be suitable and another unsuitable.
They also explained that there was no requirement for Mrs O to sign the key facts 
documents she received, and they provided Mrs O with copies of emails from her adviser 
containing links to the key facts documents that were sent at the time advice was given to 
Mrs O. These emails asked Mrs O to view the documents and contact her adviser if she had 
any queries about the information provided.
Our investigator also asked Mrs O to let this service know if there were any specific aspects 
of the information recorded within the file paperwork which you feel is not in keeping with 
your circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think SJP has acted incorrectly in this matter or treated Mrs O 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
Did the SJP adviser explain that he was not an IFA?
Mrs O has reiterated her concern that the adviser did not explain the difference between 
independent and tied advice. 
Even if I were to accept that the adviser did not explain that he was only able to offer 
restricted advice - and as I was not present at the meetings Mrs O had with the adviser, I 
cannot safely make any finding on what was, or was not discussed - I must take into account 
that the Key Facts about our Services and Costs document, clearly set out under the 
heading Which service will we provide you with:
Restricted advice  We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have 
assessed your needs. We only offer products from a limited number of companies. You may 
ask us for a list of the companies whose products we offer.
The suitability letter sent to Mrs O dated 14 May 2015, confirmed that the adviser had 
provided Mrs O with a copy of SJPs Key Facts about our Services and Costs. The adviser 
explained that this set out, the products we offer, the service we provide, the cost of our 
advice and services and our Terms of Business. And the adviser said, if you have any 
queries on this document, please let me know.
So, even if I were to accept that the adviser did not explain the difference between the 
restricted advice he was authorised to provide and the advice an IFA could provide, I cannot reasonably find that Mrs O did not receive a written explanation of the difference between 
restricted and independent advice.
I am also mindful that the records show that the adviser provided Mrs O with another copy of 
Key Facts about our Services and Costs in early 2016, and again in July 2017.
I appreciate that Mrs O may not have read SJPs Key Facts about our Services and Costs 
in detail, but I cannot reasonably hold SJP responsible for this.
As I am satisfied that SJP notified Mrs O that its adviser could only provide restricted advice 
I cannot reasonably uphold this aspect of Mrs Os complaint. 
Should the adviser have provided Mrs O with copies of the information he recorded about 
her personal and financial circumstances?
As our investigator explained, there is no requirement on an adviser to provide a copy of the 
information recorded about a clients circumstances, unless the client requests a copy. I 
understand that Mrs O has now received a copy of all the information SJP holds about the 
advice it provided to her. 
Likewise, our investigator explained that there was no requirement for Mrs O to sign the Key 
Facts documents she received. I note our investigator has provided Mrs O with copies of 
emails from her SJP adviser, sent at the time the advice was given to Mrs O, asking her to 
view the documents and contact him if she had any queries about the information he had 
provided. I therefore cannot reasonably find that this information was not provided to Mrs O. 
As I explained above, I appreciate that Mrs O may not have read the Key Facts documents 
for the products she invested in, in detail, but I cannot reasonably hold SJP responsible for 
this.
Our investigator asked Mrs O to let this service know if there were any specific aspects of 
the information recorded within the file paperwork which you feel is not in keeping with your 
circumstances.
Mrs O has not provided this service with details of any information that the adviser recorded 
about her personal and financial circumstances, that she feels were incorrectly recorded, or 
did not reflect her situation at the time the advice was given. As this is the case, I cannot 
reasonably find that the information recorded by the adviser was incorrect. 
Was the advice to move her stocks and shares ISA to SJP unsuitable?
Mrs O says that when the adviser arranged for her to transfer a stocks and shares ISA she 
held with another provider to SJP, he did not explain that  there would be higher charges 
for transferring out and that it would now be managed and there was no differential in 
investment performance.
I have very carefully considered this point. Having done so, I cant reasonably find that the 
adviser didnt explain the additional costs involved, and the disadvantages, as well as the 
potential advantages of transferring Mrs Os existing stocks and shares ISA to SJP.
In particular, I note that in the suitability letter, dated 7 February 2016, the adviser clearly set 
out:
The additional annual growth required by St. Jamess Place, over a ten year investment 
horizon, in order to match the benefits from your plan with [name of existing ISA provider] is 0.53% p.a.
This is equivalent to £63.00 over the next twelve months.
Putting this another way, this means that your St. Jamess Place ISA would have to grow by 
£63.00 more in the first year than your existing plan, in total.
The adviser also provided a table that compared the costs involved, including the initial and 
ongoing charges, and range of funds available. 
Likewise, I note that the adviser explained in the suitability letter that if Mrs O transferred her 
ISA to SJP she would incur new initial charges on the investments, and that SJP may offer 
less funds and fund managers than her existing ISA provider.
In view of this, I cant reasonably find that the adviser failed to explain that Mrs O would incur 
higher charges if she transferred her existing ISA to SJP.
I have also carefully considered whether the advice to transfer her existing ISA to SJP was 
unsuitable. I appreciate that Mrs O feels the adviser was motivated by the fees he would 
receive and did not act in her best interests when he advised her to move her ISA. 
However, I must consider that in the suitability letter the adviser set out that Mrs O wanted to 
move her ISA to SJP as she wanted to  have your investments professionally managed 
and regularly monitored and you did not want to be responsible for the weighting of the asset 
class selection of your investments. You also wanted to continue to benefit from my ongoing 
service and advice on your investments.
I also note that the adviser clearly set out that there was no guarantee that Mrs O would be 
better off financially if she transferred her ISA to SJP. He also set out alternatives open to 
Mrs O if she chose not to transfer her ISA.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs O feels that she would have been better 
off if she hadnt transferred her ISA to SJP. But based on the information recorded at the 
time about Mrs Os objectives and requirements, I cant reasonably find that the advice to 
transfer her existing ISA to SJP was unsuitable.
Was Mrs O made aware of the initial charges on the unit trust she was advised to take out?
In her response to our investigators view, Mrs O said she noted the points the investigator 
had made about the ISA investments she made, prior to the advice to invest £180,000 of her 
inheritance in 2017 but, these were small amounts of investment and nothing in the scale 
of the investment of £180,000 which required a lot more advice, a lot more understanding 
and a lot more detail. This was inherited money which we certainly would not want to have 
lost. Again, I think this is about the fact the adviser was only interested in generating 
commission for himself. The notes and documentation were always presented in a defensive 
way, and you should interpret this as such.
I have very carefully considered all the documentation that was provided to Mrs O when she 
received advice on investing the £180,000 lump sum from the inheritance she had received. 
Having done so, I cant reasonably find that the initial charges were not disclosed or that the 
suitability letter didnt set out why the adviser was recommending the ISA and Unit Trust 
Feeder investments. The suitability letter dated 7 August 2017, referred to two meetings that 
had been held to discuss investing the money, in March and July 2017. In addition to these 
meetings, the suitability letter discussed other investment vehicles the adviser had considered and why he felt the ISA and Unit Trust Feeder were more suitable for Mrs Os 
personal and financial circumstances.
If Mrs O felt that she didnt understand the recommendations made, or required more detail 
before deciding whether to go ahead, it is not clear to me why she didnt raise this with the 
adviser at the time. I note that in the suitability letter the adviser asked Mrs O to contact him 
if she had any questions in relation to the advice, key features documents, illustrations, or 
supplementary information document.
Having reviewed the documentation provided to Mrs O in connection with these 
recommendations, I cannot reasonably agree that the initial and ongoing commission was 
not clearly disclosed, in line with the regulatory requirements. I note that, as well as setting 
out the charges in percentage terms, the Key Facts document for the SJP Unit Trust Mrs O 
took out said, under the heading How much will the advice cost?:
Our advice is not free. The cost of the initial advice and our services will be £6,362.30 which 
is 4.00% of the investment shown. This cost covers all of our expenses incurred in providing, 
checking and guaranteeing the suitability of your advice. The remuneration of your Partners 
practice is only one element of this cost, from which they meet their own business expenses.
We will also provide you with ongoing advice to review your investment and ensure it 
remains appropriate, as set out in the brochure Welcome to St. Jamess Place provided by 
your Partner. The cost of this each year is 0.50% of your total investment (and so this annual 
cost will increase if your investment grows).
For example, if your investments are worth £160,000.00 in a particular year the cost for that 
year would be £800.
In view of this I cannot reasonably find that the initial and ongoing charges were not 
disclosed to Mrs O.
I note that in her earlier correspondence with this service, Mrs O said she was told that the 
unit trust investment would generate an income of around £12,000 per year. As our 
investigator set out, nothing in the records that have been provided to this service shows or 
suggests that the adviser told Mrs O that her unit trust would generate a particular level of 
income. I note that in the suitability letter the adviser said:
While you have no set target for the growth you are hoping to achieve from this investment, 
you have seen good returns from your existing investments over the years and ideally you 
are hoping for gains of around 5% or above and you are prepared to take greater risk to 
potentially achieve this, or at the very least hope to achieve a real return over the longer 
term, whilst accepting that this cannot be guaranteed.
Summary
Having carefully considered all the information and documentation provided in relation to the 
recommendations made to Mrs O, I cannot reasonably find that the advice was unsuitable, 
or that SJP has treated Mrs O unfairly.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs O feels that the fees and charges that 
were applied to her investments were too high. But, as the adviser explained to Mrs O, his 
advice was not free. I am satisfied that the costs involved with the initial advice and ongoing 
reviews were disclosed to Mrs O in line with regulatory requirements and I cannot 
reasonably say that SJP was required to do more to make Mrs O aware of the costs 
involved.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman