DRN-4006124
The complaint
Miss J and Ms S are unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a 
claim under their car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss J and Ms S had a motor insurance policy with Aviva covering their car. 
The car was damaged in a collision with a third-party vehicle in March 2022 and Miss J and 
Ms S made a claim to Aviva. 
The car had previously been declared a write-off.
There was a series of delays dealing with the damage to the car because it was of a special 
construction type. Three repairers were used to establish the amount of damage that had 
been caused to it. Eventually, Aviva assessed the damage and declared that the car was a 
write-off.
Aviva said it assessed the cars value at just over £19,000, less Miss J and Ms Ss excess. 
Miss J and Ms S didnt agree with the valuation and thought a figure over £22,000 was 
nearer to its true value.
Miss J and Ms S said there were long queues waiting to speak to Avivas claims department. 
Aviva also supplied incorrect information to the third-party insurer which caused delays in the 
claims process, and caused liability to be disputed. 
Miss J and Ms S said the claim delay meant they had considerable inconvenience as they 
had to rely on one car, making Miss Js working day much longer. They said Avivas poor 
handling of the claim caused them a lot of stress.
Aviva said it thought it had delayed the claim by 28 days. It offered Miss J and Ms S £300 
compensation for its poor handling of the claim but it maintained that it had assessed the 
value of the car correctly.
Miss J and Ms S remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. She said Avivas offer was in the range this 
service would expect as it had a lower market value given that the car had previously been 
written-off. She thought Avivas offer of £300 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Miss J and Ms S didnt agree with the view so their complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision which set out my thoughts on the valuation of the car and the 
quality of service Miss J and Ms S received from Aviva:
Vehicle valuation
Its Miss J and Ms Ss contention that their car was worth more than Aviva paid. I can see 
that they have provided this service with evidence about this, but from what I can see, their 
evidence doesnt show that the vehicle was worth more than the figure Aviva offered them.
The figures I have are £22,140 and £22,500. Its not clear to me whether these figures are 
for a car that has previously been written off, or not. But when I look at figures from various 
trade guides used by this service, I think it becomes clear that the figures above are for a 
vehicle in good condition, that has not previously been written-off.
I can also see that Miss J and Ms S have also sent copies of adverts for similar vehicles 
from November 2022. Ive looked at Avivas policy wording, which says:
The most we will pay will be the market value of your car at the time of the loss.
What this means is that Aviva will pay the amount Miss J and Ms Ss car was worth in March 
2022, rather than November.
Its this services approach to use valuations from major companies to arrive at a vehicle 
value. I can see that the upper and lower ends of these values from March 2022 are £23,810 
to £21,820. Its important that I re-iterate these figures are for a car that has not previously 
been written off. This services approach says a figure of 20% is a reasonable deduction to 
arrive at a revised market value for a car of that status, and when this deduction is taken off, 
the market values are in the range £19,048 - £17,456.
Aviva offered Miss J and Ms S £19,008 for their car, which is within the range of values Ive 
stated above. So, it follows that I think Avivas offer to settle the claim is fair and reasonable.
Service
Ive looked carefully at the claims process Miss J and Ms S followed. In this case, there was 
a significant delay getting the vehicle to an approved repairer who could properly assess it 
and I cant say thats the fault of Miss J and Ms S.
Aviva already had the details of the car so its my view that it should have been able to send 
the car, with its specialist construction, to an appropriate repairer first time.
Its reasonable to say that theres often a short waiting period whilst cars are being 
assessed, but Aviva has said its errors added 28 days onto Miss J and Ms Ss claim.
Aviva has already offered Miss J and Ms S £300 for the service they received during the 
claim, including the call queues, delays caused by sending the car to three repairers and the 
error made by its claim handler. I think this amount is fair and reasonable and in line with this 
services guidelines, so Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded and said itd provided a hire car to Miss J and Ms S during the claim. Miss 
J and Ms S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both parties either didnt respond or didnt have any new information to add, my final 
decision remains the same as in my provisional decision.My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my provisional decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Miss J and Ms S 
£300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman