DRN-2262217
The complaint
Ms B has complained Santander UK plc wont refund her for a cash machine withdrawal she 
didnt make.
What happened
Ms B was out shopping on 17 October 2019. When she went to pay in a supermarket, she 
noticed her purse was missing. She contacted all her banks, building societies and credit 
card companies. Cash had been withdrawn from at least four of her cards, including £300 
from Santander. All Ms Bs financial institutions, except Santander, refunded the money as it 
had been withdrawn without Ms Bs authorisation.
Santander noted that the correct PIN was used with her card so felt they could continue to 
hold her responsible. Ms B brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator noted the evidence, including from Ms Bs other banks, which supported the 
fact Ms Bs purse had been stolen. He noted Ms B used the same PIN for all her cards. 
Shed done this for a while. She had no need to write the PIN down or keep any reference to 
it with her cards. He believed there was nothing to suggest Ms B had authorised the 
disputed transaction. Although he couldnt explain how someone knew Ms Bs PIN, hed 
seen no evidence to show shed acted in a grossly negligent manner. He asked Santander 
to refund Ms B.
Santander continued to disagree with this outcome. Ms Bs complaint has been referred to 
an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when 
we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed 
them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Santander and Ms B have told us. Our investigator also got hold of information 
and statements from some of Ms Bs other banks. These confirm the decisions theyd made 
to refund the disputed transactions.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transaction was made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 14 July 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following facts are pertinent to this complaint:
Ms Bs purse was stolen on the morning of 17 October 2019. Ive seen nothing to 
dispute this was the case. In fact Ms Bs daughters call to Santander matches 
exactly what weve been told.
I dont believe theres any dispute either about whether Ms B authorised the 
transaction. There were a number of successful and attempted cash machine 
withdrawals using a range of Ms Bs debit and credit cards. Most of these took place 
at the same bank cash machine. This included a withdrawal using another of Ms Bs 
cards a couple of minutes before her Santander card was used.
Santander blocked a further attempt to withdraw £200 and an attempt to use Ms Bs 
card in a store. The proposed use follows what wed often see where unauthorised 
use is being made of a debit card.
Santander has provided no evidence to support their view they didnt need to refund 
Ms B as the correct PIN was used. Theyre aware, Im sure, that the regulator states: 
The burden of proof lies with the payment service provider and if a claim that a 
transaction is unauthorised is rejected, the rejection must be supported by sufficient 
evidence to prove that the customer is guilty of fraud, gross negligence or intentional 
breach and the reason for the rejection must be explained to the customer.
Overall Im satisfied Ms B didnt authorise the transaction. From her own evidence I see no 
reason to think Ms B needed to keep a written copy of her PIN. She used the same one for 
all cards. And in fact I believe one of Ms Bs other debit cards was used to withdraw cash  
by the thief  just shortly before use of her Santander card was made. So  as the PINs 
were the same  its not surprising a thief was able to get money using her Santander 
account after theyd successfully got money using another of Ms Bs debit cards.
Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Ms Bs PIN in the first 
place, made this transaction or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. But I do 
have to be satisfied that there are scenarios how this could have taken place. In this case I 
believe there are a few scenarios to explain how this could have happened. Someone could 
have easily spotted Ms Bs card use previously and recalled this.  Based on Ms Bs age, I 
dont think this is completely unlikely. This is a horrible prospect and Im aware how shaken 
this whole episode has left Ms B so dont wish to worry her unnecessarily.
Putting things right
Taking all the evidence into consideration including how her cards were used after her purse 
went missing, I see no reason to doubt Ms Bs evidence. Her purse was stolen and someone 
else used the cards she kept there. That means she didnt make or authorise these 
transactions. Santander will need to refund Ms B for this disputed transaction. Theyll also 
need to add 8% simple interest to the amount.Ive also considered the impact of this on Ms B. Santander was the only one of Ms Bs 
several banks to dispute what occurred and refuse to reimburse her. Ive taken into account 
her age. Shed also suffered the shock of having her purse stolen which although is not 
Santanders fault, their actions wont have helped her recovery and getting back to normal as 
quickly as she could.
Having considered this, I think its fair and reasonable Santander pay Ms B £100 in 
compensation for the upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Santander UK plc to:
Reimburse Ms B £300 for the disputed cash machine withdrawal;
Add 8% simple interest a year from 17 October 2019 to the date of settlement; and
Pay Ms B £100 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman