DRN-3685935
The complaint
Ms B complains that the wheelchair she acquired using her John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited (JLFS) credit card was misrepresented.
What happened
In December 2020, Ms B acquired a wheelchair using her JLFS credit card. She says she 
was told it was ex-rental having been with one previous hirer and had been in the workshop 
over the Covid period. She says this meant the chair was less than four years old. Ms B says 
she experienced various issues with the wheelchair which she didnt think should have 
happened given the age she believed it was. Then, when she registered the wheelchair, she 
discovered it was first registered in 2012 meaning it was over eight years old when she 
acquired it. Ms B also says the wheelchair had been refurbished which wasnt what she had 
been led to believe. Ms B says had she realised the wheelchairs age at acquisition and that 
it had been rebuilt (meaning she didnt know the age of the parts of the wheelchair) she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the acquisition. 
Ms B asked to have her claim raised under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
saying the wheelchair had been misrepresented.
JLFS said that there was no evidence to show that Ms B had been told the age of the 
wheelchair at the time of acquisition. It said the wheelchair had been provided with a three-
month warranty under which work had been completed and noted that Ms B hired the 
wheelchair for a period before acquiring it. JLFS said it hadnt provided the service it should 
have in dealing with Ms Bs claim request and offered to pay £100 compensation because of 
this. 
Our investigator didnt think that JLFS did anything wrong by not upholding Ms Bs section 
75 claim. He noted the compensation offered for the service issues and thought this 
reasonable.
Ms B didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated her concerns about the 
information she was provided at the point of sale regarding the wheelchairs age and 
condition. She didnt think the supplier had been honest about the wheelchair and had she 
know the full facts she says she wouldnt have acquired it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the experience Ms B has had over the past years both in her process of 
trying to source an appropriate wheelchair and also since acquiring her current wheelchair. I 
note her comments about the supplier, but this complaint is about JLFS and so my decision 
is about whether or not JLFS acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ms Bs section 75 
claim.
As has been previously explained, under section 75 a finance provider can, in certain 
circumstances, be held liable if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier. Ms B has noted issues with the wheelchair that she acquired and said that it 
was misrepresented to her.
I have carefully considered what Ms B has said about the process she went through when 
acquiring the wheelchair and the information she gathered. Ms B has said she was told the 
wheelchair had previously had one hirer and was then in the workshop during the Covid 
period. Therefore, she believed the wheelchair to be around four years old. I appreciate this 
was her understanding and also note her comment that when she mentioned the age of the 
wheelchair being between three and four years she wasnt corrected, but for me to say that a 
misrepresentation occurred I would need more evidence to prove Ms B was incorrectly told 
the age of the wheelchair. From what I have seen I do not have enough to say this 
happened. I can understand Ms Bs concerns and her need for a reliable wheelchair but I 
also appreciate that the age is only one factor and the condition of the wheelchair is likely to 
be more relevant in regard to assessing the reliability. In this regard, Ms B was able to have 
a trail period with the wheelchair before acquiring it and while I appreciate issues were 
noted, these were discussed at the time and she chose to go ahead.
Ms B has also said that the wheelchair was misrepresented because it was sold as being ex-
rental not refurbished. After acquisition she was told the wheelchair had been refurbished. I 
appreciate the point Ms B has raised and her concerns about the age of certain parts of the 
wheelchair. However, having considered the evidence provided it appears that the statement 
provided at the time of purchase was that the wheelchair was being sold as ex-rental rather 
than refurbished and as such certain damage wouldnt be repaired without charge. I do not 
find that this means that the wheelchair was being represented as never being refurbished. 
The supplier has confirmed the wheelchair would have been rebuilt after the long-tern hirer 
retuned it so that it was ready to go back on hire. This seems a reasonable process and it 
would be expected that the rebuild or refurbishment would have improved the condition of 
the wheelchair. So, again while I note Ms Bs comments, had this been a key issue for Ms B 
then I think she could have asked further details about this as the time.
I have also considered Ms Bs comment about the issues she has experienced with the 
wheelchair and noted the information provided by the supplier about these. Based on this I 
do not find I have enough to say that there was a breach of contract.
Overall, while I appreciate that this experience had been upsetting and stressful for Ms B, in 
this case given the evidence provided by Ms B and the supplier, I do not find I can say that 
JLFS acted unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing Ms Bs section 75 claim.
JLFS has acknowledged that there were service issues when dealing with Ms Bs section 75 
claim and offered to pay her £100 compensation because of this. Having considered the 
process of dealing with Ms Bs claim, I find this reasonable.
Putting things right
John Lewis Financial Services Limited should pay Ms B £100 compensation as it has offered 
for the service issues she experienced while it dealt with her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited should take that actions set 
out above and I do not require it to do anything further in regard to Ms Bs section 75 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman