DRN-2503756
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the settlement offer Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
has provided to her, following the need to make a claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W had explained that her dog, H, had become paralysed overnight. So, she took H to 
the vet, and after some tests, it was discovered that H was suffering from a prolapsed disk. 
And spinal operation was needed to address the problem. 
So, Mrs H contacted Red Sands and told it about this. Mrs W has said at this point no pre-
authorisation for the claim was completed, and nor was she told about the limits on her 
insurance policy.
Thinking the vet costs associated with the operation would be met by her insurance policy, 
Mrs W agreed then for the vet to go ahead with the surgery. And the total bill for this was 
£6,682.03.
Mrs W then submitted her claim to Red Sands. And this was accepted. But the offer Mrs W 
was provided by Red Sands didnt cover the full cost of the claim. Instead, Red Sands 
offered £1,901. It said that Mrs Ws policy for H had a limit of £2,000 per condition. And the 
excess needed to be deducted from this limit. And therefore, £1,901 was the correct 
settlement Mrs W was entitled to under the policy.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said that the problem H suffered from wasnt a condition  instead it 
was an isolated, emergency incident that needed to be dealt with. So, she didnt feel 
applying a condition limit was correct in this case. And, Mrs W said that she wasnt told of 
the limits on her policy when being provided with it. So, she raised a complaint about the 
matter.
Red Sands responded to Mrs Ws complaint. It maintained its position that the problem H 
had suffered from would be considered a condition  in line with the terms of the policy. The 
condition limit on the policy was £2,000  and after deducting the excess of £99, this meant 
a correct settlement of £1,901. So, it said it wouldnt be increasing its offer in respect of the 
claim.
In addition to this, Red Sands said the limits on the policy  including the condition limit, and 
annual limits on the policy were made clear in the documentation Mrs W had been provided 
with, each year her policy was renewed. And it said when Mrs W had called it before going 
ahead with the operation, it had done the right thing, by telling Mrs W to complete a claim 
form.
Mrs W was dissatisfied with this response. Mrs W has noted, in addition to the points 
referenced above, that if she had been aware of the pay-out that would be received 
(£1,901), and that she would be left with an amount of £4,781.03 to pay to the vets herself, 
she wouldnt have allowed the vets to complete the operation. Mrs W has noted that now 
she has a large sum of money she needs to pay to the vets. And she is having to work 
overtime in order to pay off what is owed. Mrs W has also raised concerns about the 
potential for debt collection action, if the remaining amount owed to the vet isnt paid.
Because Mrs W remained unhappy, her complaint was referred to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She thought Red Sands had acted fairly in 
applying the £2,000 condition limit to this claim. And she felt the limits had been made clear 
to Mrs W in the policy documentation provided. But our investigator said the excess 
shouldnt have been deducted from the £2,000 policy limit  it should have been deducted 
from the total loss, before the limit was applied. She said this was because otherwise Mrs W 
had purchased a policy with a limit of £2,000  when it would never be possible to receive 
£2,000 per condition.
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She reiterated her concerns about the 
policy, and the condition and annual limits contained within it. And Mrs W felt she should 
have been told about limits that would apply to the claim when she first called Red Sands to 
notify it of the problem.
Red Sands also didnt agree either. It said the policy made it clear that the excess would be 
deducted from the condition limit  not the total value of the loss.
Because both parties disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasons for 
doing so below. 
Mrs W is unhappy with the settlement Red Sands has offered in respect of the claim she 
made. So, Ive needed to consider whether the settlement of £1,901 is fair and reasonable  
as well as in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Condition limit
Ive looked at Mrs Ws policy documents  to see what both parties agreed to when the 
policy was purchased. And, I can see Mrs Ws policy does provide cover for vet fees  up to 
the limit detailed on the policy schedule.
Mrs Ws policy schedule clearly details these limits. Under the heading summary of cover 
its noted that Red Sands will provide cover, up to £2,000 per condition in a year, and that 
there was an annual limit of £7,000 in total for all conditions. So, whilst I understand Mrs W 
feels she wasnt told this information, I think Mrs W was made sufficiently aware these limits 
applied to her policy. Given the above, what Ive needed to decide is whether Red Sands has shown that the 
claim Mrs W made is for a condition  and therefore subject to the £2,000 condition limit. 
And based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied it has.
I understand Mrs W feels the treatment H needed to have was as a result of an emergency 
and wasnt due to a condition H had. The medical problem came on quickly, wasnt at all 
expected, and wasnt caused by a medical issue H was known to be suffering from. 
But Mrs Ws policy booklet does confirm what is meant by a condition. And this includes 
either an injury sustained or as a result of a one-off accident. Or, manifestations of an illness 
with the same diagnostic classification.
In this case, Im satisfied the costs of the treatment were for an illness with the same 
diagnostic classification  they were all costs associated with a prolapsed disk and surgery 
to treat this. 
Given the above, I do think Red Sands acted reasonably in saying that the costs claimed for 
were as a result of a condition, and that it would only pay up to this limit. So, Im not requiring 
Red Sands to pay over and above this £2,000.
Excess 
Red Sands has said that after taking the condition limit into account, it also needs to apply 
the £99 excess that applies to Mrs Ws policy. So, the amount Mrs W would receive is 
settlement of the claim is £1,901. I dont think this is fair. 
The reason I say this, is I dont think Red Sands made it clear enough to Mrs W that the 
excess would be deducted from the £2,000 limit. 
I accept that Red Sands has explained that the excess would be deducted from the condition 
limit in Mrs Ws policy booklet. For example, in the frequently asked questions section. But I 
dont think this draws enough attention to the fact Mrs W had purchased a policy with a limit 
of £2,000 per condition  but would never be able to actually receive that amount in respect 
of a claim.
Red Sands has said its changed its policy wording, so that it was clearer than in the past. 
And it feels putting the details in the policy booklet was enough to alert Mrs W to it. But I 
dont agree it was enough here.
I consider the fact Mrs Ws excess would be deducted from the condition limit to be 
significant information. And as a result, it would need to be sufficiently highlighted to Mrs W, 
in order to make sure she was aware of how the deduction would work.
Generally, I would expect an insurer to highlight key terms of the policy to a policyholder in a 
prominent place. I consider it should be in a place which specifically draws the policyholders 
attention to these terms, for example in the policy schedule, which details the key element of 
cover, and limits to this.
Ive looked at Mrs Ws policy schedule. As above, it does explain there was a condition limit 
on the policy. And, it does explain that an excess was payable. But it didnt clearly explain 
that this would be deducted from the £2,000. So, I dont think that when looking at this limit 
Mrs W would have known she would never actually be able to receive the £2,000.I think on looking at the schedule Mrs W would have reasonably expected that she was 
paying a premium, in return for cover where she could receive a pay out of £2,000 when 
assistance was needed. And I wouldnt expect her to need to look through the policy booklet 
to confirm whether this was accurate or not.
Given the above, I dont think the settlement offer Red Sands has made is fair. Instead, Im 
satisfied it would be reasonable for Red Sands to provide a settlement of £2,000. As Red 
Sands has acted offered Mrs W an amount of £1,901, it will need to increase its settlement 
offer by £99.
Phone call with Red Sands
Mrs W has said that if she had been told by Red Sands, prior to the spinal operation going 
ahead, that her policy wouldnt provide cover for the whole operation, its unlikely she would 
have decided to agree to the operation being carried out. Mrs W said Red Sands should 
have told her this, when she called it in July 2020 to talk about Hs need for surgery.
Both parties accept Mrs W wasnt told about the limit on the policy when she called Red 
Sands in the July. So, I havent needed to investigate that further.
But I have thought about whether it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. And 
I dont think it does. 
Mrs W had been sent policy documents each year which clearly noted that there was a 
condition limit that would apply. And this is usual of insurance policies like this one. So, 
whether Red Sands told Mrs W this over the phone about the limit  or not  I think Mrs W 
should have already been aware of this. And so, I dont think Red Sands did anything wrong 
in not detailing this again. So, I dont make any award in this respect.
Putting things right
Given the above, I require Red Sands to pay Mrs W a total of £2,000 in settlement of her 
claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to 
pay Mrs W a total of £2,000 in settlement of the claim. So, an additional £99 than already 
agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman