DRN-2004874
The complaint
Miss W complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She says UK Credit Limited 
failed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks before she was approved to be a 
guarantor on a loan taken out by her friend (the borrower). She also says she wasnt made 
fully aware of her obligations as a guarantor before she agreed to act as one. 
What happened
The borrower applied for a loan in June 2017, Miss W was asked to be a guarantor. The 
loan which was applied for, and subsequently lent can be summarised as below:
Date Amount Term Amount of 
repayments
June 2017 £4,000 48 Months £188.33
Miss W says UK Credit failed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks before it 
approved her as a guarantor. She says had it done so, UK Credit wouldve seen the monthly 
repayments wouldve been unaffordable to her in the event she had to make them. She says 
she was on a part-time income and as such didnt have the sufficient disposable income to 
meet any potential repayments.
UK Credit looked into the complaint but felt it had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, as well as fully explained Miss Ws obligations as a guarantor. UK Credit says it 
completed an income check and verified this via an online credit reference agency. UK 
Credit also completed an income and expenditure check with Miss W over the telephone, as 
well as checked her credit report. It says these checks showed Miss W could afford the 
potential repayments. UK Credit also reviewed the call it had with Miss W when explaining 
her obligations, and says it satisfied its requirements to get Miss Ws informed consent to act 
as a guarantor. As part of the complaint process UK Credit requested copies of Miss Ws 
bank statements. It did a retrospective review of her income and outgoings, and found that 
with her potential loan repayments, Miss W wouldve still had on average £80 a month 
disposable income. It therefore maintained its stance that it had acted fairly when approving 
Miss W as a guarantor. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He felt UK Credit shouldve 
completed further checks before approving Miss W as a guarantor. In particular he 
highlighted the need for UK Credit to verify Miss Ws outgoings. Miss W provided our service 
with bank statements from the time of the application and these showed she had a low 
income, and little disposable cash left each month (similar to UK Credits complaint review). 
However, our investigator felt the loan was unaffordable as Miss W wouldnt have been able 
to meet any potential repayments in a sustainable way. In coming to this conclusion he felt 
the £80 average buffer was insufficient to allow Miss W to handle any unexpected increases 
in her outgoings. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ws complaint. In relation 
to the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, which applied at the time, 
there are four overarching questions which form our approach. These are:
1. Did UK Credit obtain Miss Ws properly informed consent before binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement? 
2. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? 
If so, did it make a fair decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss W would have been able to do 
so?
3. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so? 
4. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
For reasons that will become apparent further on I have not addressed all the questions Ive 
set out. Instead, Ive started by considering whether UK Credit completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy itself that she was in apposition to make the 
payments to this loan in the event she had to.
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy itself that 
she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? 
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand 
if Miss W would be able to make the loan payments in the event she had to. Essentially this 
meant that it needed to conduct similar affordability checks on Miss W to those reasonably 
expected for the borrower. 
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include things such as a 
customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses. These 
checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being provided 
including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term. 
UK Credit was required to ensure that Miss W could sustainably meet the repayments 
without adversely affecting her financial position, should she be required to do so, given that 
she was equally liable with the borrower for this debt. 
The fact that Miss W was the guarantor in this case doesnt remove any of UK Credits 
responsibility to ensure the loan repayments were affordable and sustainable for her.UK Credit says it verified Miss Ws income via an online credit reference agency. It also 
discussed her outgoings during her security call and checked her credit report. It says based 
on these checks, it showed that any potential repayments were affordable to her.
Having considered UK credits arguments; Im not persuaded its checks were proportionate. 
As Ive mentioned above, Miss W was on a low income as she was working part time. At the 
time of the application by the borrower, Miss W was earning approximately £650 per month. 
This means the potential monthly repayments wouldve equated to around 30% of her 
income each month  which is a significant proportion. 
UK Credit might have carried out a carried check but most of Miss Ws monthly expenditure 
wont have shown up on this as it was non-credit related. 
So, bearing in mind this, Miss Ws low income and in any event its calculation of Miss Ws 
disposable income, at best, left very little margin for error, I think it would have been 
proportionate to take additional steps.  
In these circumstances, I think that UK Credit shouldve conducted further checks, verifying 
more of Miss Ws outgoings, to ensure that she could meet these potential payments. As  
UK Credit didnt do this here, it follows that I dont think UK Credits checks did take into 
account the particular circumstances  her low income and tight margins - and as such I 
dont think they were proportionate. 
Would further checks have shown Miss W would have been able to make any repayments 
sustainably?
As Ive set out above, Im persuaded UK Credit shouldve got a more detailed understanding 
of Miss Ws financial circumstances before it approved her as a guarantor. It couldve 
achieved this by asking Miss Ws to provide bank statements.
Miss W has provided our service with bank statements from the time of the borrowers 
application. Ive reviewed these statements and they show the same as both our investigator 
and UK Credit have highlighted. That is to say Miss W had a low income  varying between 
£600 to £650 per month. She had set outgoings, which were higher than she disclosed at 
the time of being approved as a guarantor. These show that they were over 50% of her 
income per month. Miss W was also generally only making minimum repayments to her 
credit card.
Taking this into consideration, any potential repayments wouldve left Miss W with a small 
buffer of approximately £80 a month (or 15% of her income). UK Credit says this amount 
was sufficient to make the loan affordable to Miss W should she be required to make 
payments. 
UK Credit needed to ensure Miss W could make any potential repayments in a sustainable 
way. That means without any undue difficulty or incurring further debt. It also needed to take 
into account any reasonably foreseeable changes in Miss W circumstances. It also needed 
to consider this in line with the term of the loan which Miss W was being asked to guarantee 
 which in this case was 48 months. 
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that the small buffer that Miss W had left over, wouldnt 
have allowed her to make any potential repayments sustainably. I say this because her low 
income (which varied) means she was less likely to be able to handle any sudden or 
unexpected increases in her outgoings. For example, any increases in her credit card bill, or 
any other unexpected increase in household bills. I appreciate UK Credit disagrees with this 
argument, but Im persuaded in these circumstances, that the buffer isnt sufficient. And for those reasons, Im satisfied the potential loan repayments wouldve likely always 
been unaffordable to Miss W, and as such she shouldnt have been approved as a 
guarantor.
As Ive already found that Miss W shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor on for this 
loan as I think proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown that shed be 
unable to sustainably make the payments in the event she had to, I dont think that any 
findings that I may make in relation to the remaining questions, will materially affect Miss Ws 
position. As such while I note the findings that our investigator made, I make no finding on 
whether UK Credit obtained Miss Ws properly informed consent to the agreement or on 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards the borrower when deciding to provide this 
loan.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require UK Credit Limited to:
To release Miss W from any obligations she has under the guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
To refund any repayments Miss W has made towards the loan with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove any information recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result of the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman