DRN-3560511
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam) valued his 
self-invested personal pensions (SIPP). Specifically, he is unhappy with adjustments made 
to the value of his holdings within his two SIPPs in 2012 and 2018.  
Mr M is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading I will generally refer to 
all representations as being made by Mr M. 
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, and therefore I have only 
summarised them below.
In 2006, a number of investors formed a syndicated SIPP. Mr M joined the syndicate in 2007 
investing through two SIPPs with Sanlam. Ill refer to these as SIPP A and SIPP B. At this 
time he carried out an in-specie switch of the front of commercial property which he owned 
within his existing SIPP, administered by a third party, to his Sanlam SIPPs. Mr M then sold 
the back of the property to the syndicate for £780,000. He received £451,000 in cash and 
£329,000 was recorded as being invested in the syndicates fund through SIPP A. Mr M 
invested a further £140,000 through cash and tax relief in the syndicates holding through 
SIPP B.
On 8 February 2012 an adjustment was made to Mr Ms holdings in the syndicate. Sanlam 
said this was necessary to rebalance the fund as Mr Ms share of the fund relative to the 
other members share was overstated. In an email to Mr Ms adviser (who was also the 
funds coordinator and a member) on 28 December 2011, Sanlam explained this was 
because of the large amounts that were paid out on the development work and which 
Mr [M] did not share in, he is facing a reduction of over £100k. This meant the percentages 
share of the fund for all members of the syndicate were adjusted. Mr Ms percentage share 
of the fund was reduced from around 49% to approximately 36%. Sanlam emailed the fund 
Mr Ms adviser with the new percentages on 7 February 2012. An email from Mr Ms 
financial adviser on 8 February 2012 confirmed the figures look OK.
Mr M took tax-free cash of about £57,000 in 2014. He also made drawdown withdrawals 
totalling about £9,000 from September 2018 to June 2019.
In 2017 Sanlam discovered that an outstanding mortgage of £223,000 on the property 
wasnt taken into account when Mr M joined the SIPP. Sanlam has said it wouldnt have 
agreed to an in-specie commercial property transfer had it known about the outstanding 
loan. This meant Mr Ms investment into SIPP A was £106,000 (before adviser commission), 
not £329,000. 
By letter dated 20 March 2018 Sanlam informed Mr M of this mistake and explained that as 
a result, the value of his SIPP has been incorrect since inception. This meant 3% of 
£469,000 (about £14,000) was deducted and paid as commission to his financial adviser 
instead of 3% of £246,000 (about £7,000). So, his actual contribution was about £239,000. 
Sanlam also said that due to the incorrect valuation of Mr Ms pension fund, he took £16,000 
more in tax-free cash than allowed. Because of this he may have to pay an HMRC 
unauthorised tax charge.  
On 28 March 2018 Mr M complained that he was paid the wrong tax-free lump sum and that 
Sanlam had provided him with incorrect valuations since his plans started. 
Sanlam ultimately upheld Mr Ms complaint and in its final response letter dated 
23 September 2019 it offered Mr M the following:
That he keep the £16,000 excess tax-free cash that has been paid to him already.
To reimburse any HMRC unauthorised payment tax charge due to the excess tax-free 
cash.
To pay the overpaid adviser commission of £6,000 as a lump sum directly to him, after 
deducting 20% income tax on 75% of this.
£500 for the trouble and upset its administrative errors caused him.
In December 2019 the property was sold for about £990,000. 
Mr M didnt accept Sanlams offer. And after additional correspondence failed to resolve 
things, Mr M brought his complaint to this service on 23 March 2020. The crux of the 
complaint concerned the 2018 adjustment and said in relevant part 
On the 21 September 2017 as you can see from the Sanlam correspondence they 
admitted their mistake that they had over egged my [percentage] because they had 
allocated £329,000 not £106,000. They then altered my [percentage], however I do not 
feel that they have made the right deduction, because if as was the case the Group 
SIPP paid of the [Loan] then I have paid for this twice.
By letters dated 11 May and 21 May 2020 Mr M submitted another complaint to Sanlam 
asking for a full explanation for the reductions to his fund on 8 February 2012 and 
8 May 2018. He also raised concerns that he may have overpaid on other costs in addition 
to the initial adviser commission. He felt that as a result of incorrect adjustments his fund 
value was too low. 
Mr M switched his SIPPs to another provider in October 2020. The switch values were about 
£61,000 for SIPP A and about £102,000 for SIPP B.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns about the 2012 and 2018 adjustments. 
He initially determined that that the 2018 adjustment was required and thought Sanlams 
offer in this regard was fair. But he didnt think that there wasnt enough evidence to justify 
the reduction made in 2012.
Sanlam didnt agree with the investigators conclusions about the 2012 adjustment and said 
that Mr Ms complaint about it had been made too late. It objected to this services 
jurisdiction to investigate this issue.  
The investigator considered this and issued a second view which concluded that Mr Ms 
complaint about the 2012 adjustment hadnt been made in time. He explained that under the 
rules that govern our jurisdiction, Mr M was required to complain within six years of the 
activity being complained about  in this case the 2012 adjustment. Therefore, Mr M needed 
to have complained by February 2018. But Mr M didnt complain about the 2012 adjustment 
until 2020.A separate part of the rule may allow for a complaint to be brought later if it was brought 
within three years of when the consumer ought reasonably to have known they had cause to 
complain. The investigator also considered this but reasoned that the three-year part of the 
rule didnt apply here. He explained this was because even if Mr M and his adviser werent 
informed of the adjustment as Sanlam claims, the substantial decrease in the value of 
Mr Ms funds between January 2012 and January 2013, ought reasonably to have given him 
cause to complain by January 2013 at the latest, in which case hed need to have 
complained by January 2016. 
The investigator also looked into whether exceptional circumstances prevented Mr M from 
bringing his complaint about the 2012 adjustment sooner. He didnt think there were so he 
concluded that this service couldnt look at his complaint about what happened in 2012.
The investigator maintained his view that the 2018 adjustment was required, and he 
considered Sanlams offer to be fair and reasonable given all of the circumstances of the 
complaint.   
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
Why I cant look into Mr Ms complaint about the 2012 adjustment
As set out by the investigator, there are rules that we must follow when dealing with 
complaints which determine what we can and cant look at. These are set by the financial 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These rules are called the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules and are set out in the FCAs handbook which can be found on their 
website.
I have some sympathy for Mr Ms position here as he thinks he may have lost out because of 
Sanlams actions, so I appreciate that he wants this service to consider both the 2012 and 
2018 adjustments to his SIPPs. But Sanlam asserts that Mr Ms complaint about the 2012 
adjustment has been raised too late. And where a business objects to the timeliness of a 
complaint, before I can consider the merits, I am required to follow rules regarding time limits 
as set out in DISP 2. 
Specifically, DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(1) 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received.
Presently, Mr M is complaining about two adjustments made to his SIPP fund value. The first 
adjustment occurred on 8 February 2012. The mistake requiring the second adjustment  
that the fund was valued incorrectly from inception - was discovered in 2017 and the 
adjustment concluded in 2018. Following this, Mr M promptly complained. There is no 
timeliness issue regarding the 2018 adjustment, but for the 2012 adjustment, the six years 
expired on 8 February 2018 at the latest. Mr M said his complaint in March 2018 following the 2018 adjustment, was also about the 
2012 correction. Ive considered this, but the evidence Ive been provided persuades me that 
that Mr M didnt complain about the 2012 adjustment until May 2020, more than six years 
later. And even if I am wrong about this, the complaint still isnt timely as it was made after 
8 February 2018. Therefore, we wouldnt be able to consider this part of the complaint in 
accordance with DISP rule 2.8.2 (2)(a).
Ive gone on to consider whether the three-year rule applies. Applying DISP rule 2.8.2
(2)(b), would mean we can look at this complaint if it was made within three years from when
Mr M was aware (or ought reasonably to have been aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Its not clear from what Ive been provided, when Mr M actually became aware that he had 
cause to complain about the 2012 adjustment. So its important to explain that the DISP rule 
doesnt require Mr M to have had certain knowledge of cause for complaint on a specifically 
articulated basis  the sense that something wasnt right might be enough to place an 
individual on a path to discovery of an actual cause for complaint, if they reasonably acted 
on that disquiet - so in other words the ought reasonably to have been aware part of the 
rule.
Mr M provided statements showing that between January 2012 and January 2013 his fund 
values had decreased by over £250,000. Given this significant decrease, I consider Mr M 
ought reasonably to have been aware that he had cause for complaint in January 2013. So 
he should have complained by January 2016. But since use of the six-year part of the rule 
results in a later date, and Ive concluded the complaint was made more than six years after 
the 2012 adjustment, I consider the complaint about the 2012 adjustment has been brought 
too late. 
I have discretion to disregard the time limits if there are exceptional circumstances to explain 
the delay in bringing a complaint. But in Mr Ms complaint Ive not seen any exceptional 
circumstances that would allow me to disregard the time limits in this case.  Therefore, I 
cannot consider what happened in February 2012. 
The remainder of my decision pertains solely to Mr Ms complaint about the 2018 adjustment 
and Sanlams offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons hes 
explained. 
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
The parties have provided substantial submissions in this case, and I am grateful for the 
considerable detail provided. I have carefully reviewed all of these submissions in their 
entirety. However, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties have, and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every 
single point made by all the parties involved. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it - I have carefully considered all of the submissions made in this 
complaint  but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
It is also important to note that this service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for 
their conduct  that is the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Instead, the Financial Ombudsman looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. In order to uphold a complaint I would need to find that something 
has gone wrong and that a consumer has lost out as a result. I would then ask the business 
to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr M agrees that his initial contribution to the SIPP syndicate was £246,000 (before adviser 
commission). It is also not in dispute that Mr Ms contribution was recorded incorrectly as 
£469,000 (before adviser commission) from the outset. And the parties did not disagree with 
the investigators findings, unchanged in both views, that the 2018 adjustment was needed 
because of this mistake. So the only thing for me to consider here is whether in making this 
adjustment, and the subsequent offer, Sanlam have acted fair and reasonably. And I think it 
has. 
Mr M hasnt disagreed there should have been some sort of adjustment given the 
administrative error in recording his initial contribution incorrectly. But he thinks the 
adjustment has resulted in him receiving too little from the syndicated SIPP. 
Ive looked carefully at everything both parties have provided. Sanlam asserts that the 2018 
adjustment put Mr M where he should have been, and Ive not seen sufficient evidence that 
persuades me that this isnt the case. And although I can see that Mr M might have been 
financially disadvantaged as a result of Sanlams mistake, Sanlam has offered Mr M the 
following: 
That he keep the £16,000 excess tax-free cash that has been paid to him already.
To reimburse any HMRC unauthorised payment tax charge due to the excess tax-free 
cash.
To pay the overpaid adviser commission of £6,000 as a lump sum directly to him, after 
deducting 20% income tax on 75% of this.
£500 for the trouble and upset its administrative errors caused him.
I understand Mr M has said if hed known the figures were incorrect, he wouldnt have taken 
the tax-free cash, but Im not persuaded by the evidence provided. And I cant see that Mr M 
would be willing to return this sum now. I consider that Sanlams offer ensures Mr M isnt 
worse off now because of its mistake. Mr M gets to keep the extra tax-free cash payment 
hes had the benefit of since 2014 and he does not have to pay the tax charge.
Sanlam have also said that the 2018 adjustment included costs, like adviser fees. This 
meant the adjustment already took account of the lower commission payment. But it said this 
wasnt acknowledged when its offer was made so it is still willing to refund to Mr M the 
overpaid commission as a lump sum, even though this means he has received the refund 
twice. This is an extra £6,000 Mr M would not ordinarily be entitled to.I have considered carefully the redress offered for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused. Ive looked at everything that happened since the initial allocation error came to light 
in 2017 and considered everything Mr M has told us about how it has impacted him to 
decide how to fairly redress him for this non-financial loss. Whilst I have no wish to 
underplay the frustration this matter has caused; I find £500, in addition to the other 
compensation offered, to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
appreciate this is not what Mr M was hoping for, but Im not going to ask Sanlam to increase 
its offer further.
I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this and I know that he will be disappointed. But 
Ive considered all his points very carefully. However, it follows from the above that I will not 
be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Sanlam Life & Pensions Limited UK has already accepted that it made a mistake and it 
made Mr M an offer to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Sanlam Life & Pensions Limited UK should compensate Mr M in 
accordance with its offer as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman