DRN-3782465
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted and closed a basic bank account.
What happened
Mr B had a basic bank account with HSBC. In October 2021, he received a payment of £500 
into the account. But HSBC says it received a scam allegation against this credit, so it 
blocked his account and wrote to Mr B in November asking him to visit a branch with 
evidence about the payment.
Mr B provided some evidence and HSBC completed its review. It decided to close his 
account  and wrote to Mr B on 2 December 2021 saying his account would be closed with 
immediate effect.
Mr B was unhappy that HSBC had restricted his account. In particular, he was unhappy that 
HSBC hadnt shared details of the allegation with him. He says he needed this information 
so he could follow it up. He also says HSBC incorrectly stated it had tried to contact him 
before it first wrote to him. He complained to HSBC and referred the complaint to us.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 1 December 2022. I said that based on 
what Id seen, the complaint should be upheld and HSBC should pay Mr B £300 for the 
trouble and upset it caused. 
I said that the account was a basic account. So HSBC could only close the account for one 
of the reasons listed in the Payment Account Regulations 2015. Among other things, this 
included where the consumer has knowingly used the account for illegal purposes, or where 
the conduct of the consumer in relation to the banks staff would amount to harassment or 
public order offences.
Mr B said he wasnt unhappy with the closure of his account as such. But he did say he was 
unhappy that HSBC nevertheless went on to close his account even though hed provided 
some information. So while I wasnt going to consider whether HSBC should now re-open 
Mr Bs account  Mr B didnt want this  I took into account HSBCs decision to close the 
account as part of the wider circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
With all this in mind, I considered what had happened.
HSBC had said it received an allegation of a scam from another bank. I accepted that HSBC 
may have been entitled to close the account if it concluded that Mr B was willingly involved in 
a scam. The terms and conditions of the account also allowed HSBC to ask Mr B for 
information and said it could block the account if Mr B didnt provide this information or if 
HSBC suspected fraudulent or criminal activity. So I didnt think it was necessarily 
unreasonable for HSBC to have blocked the account while it looked into things.
I acknowledged that Mr B wanted to see a copy of the report HSBC had received. But HSBC 
was under no obligation to share this with Mr B and nor would it be appropriate for me to do 
so.
That said, what Id seen didnt suggest there was a scam. The payment was made by a 
customer of Mr Bs business and appeared on Mr Bs statements with the reference house 
move. Mr B told us that hed agreed to move some furniture for his customer, and had 
provided messages from an online instant messaging platform discussing the move. There 
didnt appear to be any dispute that Mr B had provided the removal services in question  
the dispute appeared to relate to the quality of the service.
I concluded that, based on what Mr B and HSBC had said, this appeared to be a civil dispute 
between Mr B and a customer.
Id also thought about the phone calls. HSBC had told us that the reasons it closed Mr Bs 
account included his conduct on the phone. Mr B accepts he was quite upset  and listening 
to the calls I noted that Mr B was persistent and continued to contact HSBC every day even 
after HSBC told him it might be a few days before it completed its review. He repeatedly 
asked for a manager to call him, even after a member of HSBCs team told him she couldnt 
promise this would happen. Finally, I note that Mr B used unacceptable language at the end 
of one of the calls.
I recognised that Mr B found things frustrating. But I could also see why HSBC found his 
conduct unacceptable.
Finally, Mr B was unhappy because he says HSBC lied to him  he said HSBC said it tried to 
contact him before restricting his account, but it hadnt. HSBC told us it uses template letters 
 and the template it used said HSBC had contacted him even though, in Mr Bs case, it 
hadnt. Based on what Id seen, I didnt think HSBC had deliberately set out to mislead Mr B 
 but it was equally clear that the letter HSBC sent was incorrect.
Thinking about all of this, I concluded that:
HSBC was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations  and the terms and 
conditions of the account  when it initially investigated Mr Bs account.
The review was completed within five days. Given HSBC had received a report, I 
thought it would need some time to look into things. I didnt think it was unreasonable 
for HSBC to have asked Mr B for information to explain what had happened. And 
while I appreciated Mr B thinks HSBC could have completed the review quicker, he 
was told things might take a few days.
That said, I wasnt persuaded the information HSBC received suggested this was 
more than a civil dispute between Mr B and his customer. Given this was a basic 
account, I didnt think HSBC had grounds to close the account immediately. And 
while I acknowledged that some of Mr Bs conduct during the phone calls wasnt 
reasonable the bar to close basic bank accounts immediately is a high one.
Finally, some of the information HSBC sent Mr B was incorrect  and HSBC accepts 
this was incorrect. I can see this contributed to Mr Bs distress.
Thinking about everything, I though HSBC should pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset it 
caused.
I said Id consider any further comments I received by 29 December 2022.
HSBC didnt respond. Mr B has replied to say that he thinks he should get more.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC hasnt sent me anything further to consider.
Mr B has got in touch to say he wants more compensation. He doesnt think £300 reflects 
the stress and inconvenience he suffered.  He says that, based on the published information 
on our website, he should get £5,000. He also highlights that HSBC gave him incorrect 
information about the reason it suspended his account  and thinks this means he should 
get more compensation.
Ive carefully considered the points Mr B has raised. But Im not persuaded to award more. 
Where I award compensation for distress or inconvenience this isnt to punish the business 
but to reflect the impact its actions had on Mr B.
I dont doubt that Mr B found what happened upsetting. But HSBC had received a report 
about this payment from another bank, and Ive concluded that HSBC was within its rights to 
suspend his account while it looked into things. Even if things had happened as they should 
have done, I think its most likely that HSBC would still have restricted Mr Bs account and it 
would still have taken a few days for it to sort things out. Mr B would still have experienced 
some degree of distress.
I acknowledge that HSBC gave Mr B some incorrect information about why it had blocked 
his account. I accept that this has contributed to the impact HSBCs actions had on Mr B  
but cant see this changed Mr Bs position beyond this. Regardless of the reason included in 
its template letter, Im satisfied that HSBC would still have restricted Mr Bs account.
As Ive already explained, HSBC were under no obligation to tell Mr B why theyd restricted 
his account. I appreciate Mr B would like to know more. But when HSBC restricts an account 
in these circumstances it doesnt need to give reasons  and nor would it be appropriate for 
me to tell HSBC to share its reasons.
Mr B says his unacceptable conduct on the phone is a sign of how distressing he found 
things. He also said that he had to repeatedly contact HSBC to find out what had happened. 
But listening to the calls I think HSBC made it clear that Mr B might need to wait a few days 
before theyd know the outcome. And, as Ive said, I can see why HSBC found his conduct 
unacceptable.
Mr B says he should receive significantly more compensation as the allegation HSBC 
received was false  and because HSBC both sided with that report and made what he feels 
are serious allegations of wrongdoing against him. He feels hes been treated like a criminal. 
I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about this. But Im not persuaded that this means Mr B 
should get more. Im not satisfied that HSBC had grounds to immediately close the account 
 and this caused Mr B distress and the inconvenience of having to rearrange his banking 
and direct debits. But Im not persuaded it had a significant or ongoing impact on Mr B 
beyond that.
Finally, I think some of the inconvenience would have been a result of the third-party bank 
making the report to HSBC. I cant hold HSBC responsible for that.
With this in mind I reach the same overall conclusions as in my provisional decision for the 
same reasons.Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset it caused..
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset it caused. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman