DRN-2931335
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about a mortgage he has with Godiva Mortgages Limited. He is unhappy 
with administration issues that occurred following the application for a new interest rate 
product in the spring of 2020.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr G applied for a further advance and new interest rate product to be 
attached to his mortgage. Subsequently, the application for the further advance was 
cancelled, but Godiva agreed to the new product and confirmed the transfer onto the new 
interest rate would be effective from 1 April 2020. However, it made a mistake and cancelled 
both the further advance application and the interest rate product.
At the end of March 2020 Godiva wrote to Mr G and told him that his bank had informed it 
that the direct debit mandate (DDM) paying his mortgage had been cancelled. It provided a 
new DDM and asked him to complete and return it. 
In June 2020 Mr G was sent a letter telling him the payment holiday (covering April to June) 
on his mortgage was coming to an end. It informed him of how much the monthly payments 
would be gong forward. This was significantly more than the amount Mr G had been told 
would be due under the new interest rate product and he questioned it.
Godiva looked into Mr Gs concerns and realised the error it had made. It applied the interest 
rate product and backdated it to April 2020. It also sent Mr G a cheque for £150 to 
compensate him for the upset and inconvenience hed suffered because of the error.
In July 2020, as there was no DDM in place, the contractual payment due was missed. Mr G 
paid that and the August payment at the beginning of August and a new DDM was set up to 
pay the mortgage from September 2020. He complained to Godiva about it having cancelled 
the DDM.
Godiva responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that it hadnt cancelled the 
mandate and suggested Mr G contact his bank to investigate the matter further.
Mr G wasnt happy with Godivas responses to his complaints and asked this service to 
consider them. One of our investigators considered the complaints, but she didnt 
recommend they be upheld. She considered the remedy and compensation offered for the 
mistake with the interest rate product was reasonable in the circumstances. As for the DDM 
being cancelled, she confirmed the banking data showed that Godiva hadnt initiated the 
cancellation. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it had removed any adverse records from 
Mr Gs credit file. So she didnt think Godiva hadnt done anything wrong.  
Mr G said that the compensation offered for the interest rate product would be right, if it were 
not for the fact that it was just one of a catalogue of errors. He considered that the 
compensation should be at least three times that amount, given his circumstances and 
health.  However, he subsequently said that he accepted the investigators view of this issue 
and the compensation offered. 
In relation to the issue of the DDM being cancelled, Mr G considered Godiva should have 
done more to let him know the DDM had been cancelled, as it knew his post was redirected. 
Mr G also said that hed completed the DDM Godiva sent him in March 2020 and returned it 
 he said he wasnt informed that it hadnt been received. In addition, he considered Godiva 
was negligent in not highlighting that there wasnt a DDM in place when he and his mortgage 
adviser spoke to it in May, June and August 2020.
The investigator looked further into the matter of the cancelled DDM. She confirmed that a 
new DDM was not completed when Mr G applied for the further advance and new interest 
rate product in 2020  the existing one was to be used. Also, it was established that Godiva 
had no record of receiving a new DDM form from Mr G following it writing to him in 
March 2020. She also confirmed that shed looked into the telephone calls Mr G and his 
broker had with Godiva from March 2020 and she was satisfied there was little discussion 
about the DDM prior to the call in August when the matter was dealt with in full. She didnt 
think Godiva had done anything wrong in either not setting up a new DDM earlier or in not 
telling Mr G it hadnt received a new DDM from him. The investigator highlighted that it was a 
borrowers responsibility to ensure the mortgage was paid and Godiva has told Mr G that the 
means of paying it had been cancelled. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G accepted the investigators conclusions about the matter of the interest rate product 
being added to the mortgage. As such, I wont comment in any depth on the matter, other 
than to say that I agreed with our investigators conclusions. 
I now turn to the DDM being cancelled. Godiva has provided us with a screen print of the 
relevant section of its system. This shows that the DDM was cancelled on 27 March 2020. 
When A DDM is cancelled in the banking system the activity will be allotted an event code. 
These codes are used throughout the banking system. In this case, the code is one that 
states the DDM was cancelled from the customers bank. This means that Godiva didnt 
cancel the DDM  the process happened at Mr Gs bank. As such, Godiva isnt responsible 
for the DDM being cancelled or the consequences of that happening. 
That said, when it was notified about the cancellation, Godivas automated system was 
triggered, and Mr G was sent a letter telling him what had happened and asking him to send 
in a new DDM. I note that hes said he completed the DDM and returned it. I dont know what 
happened to that form, but I am satisfied that Godiva didnt receive it. As such, when the 
payment holiday on the mortgage ended, Godiva had no way to collect the July 2020 
contractual monthly payment. 
Ive also looked into the calls Mr G and his broker had with Godiva about the mortgage. The 
matter of the DDM having been cancelled and needing to be reinstated doesnt come up 
until August 2020. 
I know that Mr G thinks Godiva should have actively pursued him for a DDM and that he 
feels all the onus is being placed on him to have rectified the situation. I know this isnt what 
Mr G will want to hear, but the onus is always on a borrower to ensure their mortgage is 
paid. As for Godiva pursuing him to arrange a new DDM, there is a fine line for a lender to 
walk when certain things happen with a mortgage. A lender has to inform a customer that the DDM has been cancelled in situations like this and give them the option to replace it. 
However, as there are other ways for a customer to pay their mortgage, placing what could 
be conceived as pressure on a consumer to complete another DDM could cause upset and 
be seen by the customer as unreasonable behaviour by the lender.
When Godiva became aware that Mr G wanted a DDM in place to pay his mortgage it made 
the necessary arrangements immediately. It also removed the missed payment marker for 
July 2020 from Mr Gs credit file, which it didnt have to do in the circumstances. I cant find 
that Godiva did anything wrong in this regard or that it should have done more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
8 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman