DRN-3710978
The complaint
Miss R and Mrs S are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding the closing of their accounts.
What happened
Miss R and Mrs S held two jointly named accounts with Santander. In February 2022, they 
noticed that these two accounts were no longer showing as active in their online banking, 
and when they contacted Santander about this, they were told that the accounts had been 
closed. Miss R and Mrs S werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Miss R and Mrs Ss complaint. They explained theyd sent a letter to 
Miss R and Mrs S over two months earlier, in November 2021, which had given notice of 
Santanders intention to close the accounts. Because of this, Santander didnt feel theyd 
acted unfairly towards Miss R and Mrs S, and they didnt uphold their complaint. Miss R and 
Mrs S werent satisfied with Santanders response, especially as theyd never received the 
letter Santander mentioned, and so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly in how theyd closed the accounts and managed the situation, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Miss R and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Miss R and Mrs S feel very strongly about this complaint, and 
I note several detailed items of correspondence theyve provided to this service. Id like to 
thank Miss R and Mrs S for providing this correspondence and I hope they dont consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ill be focussing on what 
I feel are the key points of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
As such, if Miss R and Mrs S notice that I havent responded to a specific point theyve 
raised, it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Instead, it 
should be taken that I have read and considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to 
address that point directly in this letter to arrive at what I feel is a fair decision.
Miss R and Mrs S are unhappy that Santander closed their accounts and, because they 
didnt receive the letter from Santander that gave them advance notice that the accounts 
would be closed, they feel that Santander didnt provide any notice to them of their intention 
to close the accounts.
In regard to Santanders decision to close the account, just as a consumer is free to choose 
which bank they apply to or continue to do business with, so a bank is entitled to decide to 
no longer offer its services to an account holder or holders, if it so chooses. 
Its for this reason that the a banks terms and conditions usually include a provision that the 
bank can close an account and stop offering services to a customer if it decides it wants to 
do so. And I note that Santanders terms and conditions include such a clause, as follows:
You or we may close your account at any time by giving the other notice and without 
giving any reason... If we decide to do this well give you at least two months notice.
As such, Im therefore satisfied that Santander were entitled to make the decision to close 
the accounts in question. Additionally, Santander have been able to demonstrate to my 
satisfaction that they sent a letter to Miss R and Mrs S dated 29 November 2021, which 
advised that the two accounts would be closed on 31 January 2022  thus fulfilling their 
obligation to provide two months-notice of their intention to close the accounts.
Miss R and Mrs S have reiterated to this service on several occasions that they never 
received this letter, and because of this they feel that they were never provided with notice of 
Santanders intention to close the accounts, as required by Santanders terms.
I can appreciate Miss R and Mrs Ss position here. But this service isnt a regulatory body or 
a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. And so, it isnt for me to make a determination 
as to whether Santander have or havent contractually adhered to their terms. Such a 
determination would be for a regulatory body of a Court of Law. 
Instead, the remit of this service is based on fairness. And from that perspective, the first 
question I ask is whether I feel Santander acted fairly towards Miss R and Mrs S by sending 
the notice of their intention to close the accounts to Miss R and Mrss address in the mail.
Ultimately, I do feel it was fair for Santander to have posted the letter to Miss R and Mrs Ss 
address  an address which it must be noted Miss R and Mrs S had provided to Santander 
and which Santander had previously successfully sent mail to. And while I acknowledge that 
Miss R and Mrs S may not have received that letter, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably 
hold Santander accountable for the unsuccessful delivery of correctly sent mail.
Miss R and Mrs S have asked why Santander couldnt have sent the letter by recorded mail 
or sent follow up letters or notices via other channels to ensure that they received the notice 
that their accounts were going to be closed. 
These are all reasonable questions. But it wouldnt generally be expected that businesses 
would send mail by recorded delivery in such circumstances as the cost of doing  across all 
customers  would be prohibitive. And while follow up notices could be sent, this can itself 
be problematic, for example if a customer states to a business that theyve received the 
follow up notice only and so feel that the two months notice should start from the date of that 
follow up letter, while the business insist on the original closure date.
Ultimately, its for Santander to decide how it will send formal notices to its customers. But if 
it is the case that a customer doesnt make alternative financial arrangements before an 
account is closed, for whatever reason, it would also be incumbent on Santander to ensure 
that an appropriate process is in place to return whatever money is left in the account to the 
account holder. Santander have such a process, which is referenced in the continuing 
clause previously quoted from their terms and conditions as follows:
If there is any money in the account [at the time of closure] we may transfer that 
money to another account you hold with us or send it to the last address we hold for 
you.Its my understanding that this is what happened in this instance, with Miss R and Mrs S later 
receiving the money that had been present in the accounts. And so, while I acknowledge 
that Miss R and Mrs S were inconvenienced and upset by the closing of their accounts, 
given that this trouble and distress occurred because they didnt receive a correctly 
addressed letter from Santander  the non-delivery of which I wouldnt consider holding 
Santander responsible for  I feel that this trouble and upset is the result of misfortune, 
rather than being the result of any unfair action or inaction undertaken by Santander.
Miss R and Mrs S have asked, given that Santander havent explained their reasons for 
closing their accounts to them, how they can be assured that Santander arent acting unfairly 
towards them and closing their accounts for some discriminatory reason. I can appreciate 
Miss R and Mrs Ss concerns here, and so Santander have provided this service with a 
detailed explanation of why they chose to close the accounts as they did. 
Ive reviewed Santanders explanation and having done so Im satisfied that Santander did 
have a fair and valid reason for choosing to close Miss R and Mrs Ss accounts. Santander 
arent obliged to provide Miss R and Mrs S with their reasons for closing their accounts, and 
as such Im unable to disclose any further details about this to Miss R and Mrs S. However, I 
hope theyll find some solace in knowing that myself, as someone independent and impartial, 
has reviewed this matter for them and that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly 
towards them as they were concerned might be the case.
All of which means that, while I appreciate that Miss R and Mrs S were inconvenienced here, 
I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably as Miss R and Mrs S 
contend. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Santander to take any further action. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss R and Mrs S were wanting, but I hope theyll 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman