DRN-3384377
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr O left the UK to commence a trip on 11 March 2020. He was scheduled to return on 
23 April 2020, but because of the travel disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic wasnt 
able to return to the UK until October 2020. As Mr O held a worldwide travel insurance policy 
with Aviva, he made a claim for the additional costs hed incurred as a result of being unable 
to return to the UK as planned.
Aviva declined Mr Os claim and said no cover was available. It explained his policy only 
provided cover for trips of no more than 31 days in duration and Mr Os pre-booked trip was 
scheduled to be longer than that. It also explained that in the event of wanting to cover a trip 
of more than 31 days in duration, a trip extension upgrade needed to have been purchased 
prior to the trip commencing and Mr O hadnt purchased such cover. 
Mr O complained and while Aviva maintained its position regarding Mr Os claim, it did 
acknowledge one of its staff had incorrectly told him it may look to consider his costs in an 
email. Aviva apologised for the expectations that may have set, and offered £100 in 
compensation. Mr O rejected Avivas offer and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably. They said Mr Os policy was 
clear about the maximum trip duration and the compensation offered was a fair reflection of 
the impact of the incorrect information sent. 
Mr O did not agree. He referred to The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and said Aviva had misrepresented itself by sending 
that email. He said that misrepresentation had been careless, deliberate, or reckless, and 
hed been caused both stress and financial burden.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
Aviva has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and not reject them 
unreasonably. I dont think Aviva declined Mr Os claim unreasonably for the reasons Ill now 
explain:
The terms and conditions of Mr Os travel insurance policy set out the agreement 
between him and Aviva. One of the first things those terms and conditions say is:
Welcome to your [X] Worldwide Travel Insurance.
Please take time to read this policy document as it contains important information. To 
help you understand what you are covered for at a glance  weve highlighted some 
common questions below
What is the maximum trip length?
Trips should be no longer than 31 days and must start and end in the UK. However, 
when booking your trip, you may be able to purchase an upgrade to cover an 
extended duration.
What upgrades are available on this policy?
For an additional cost the following upgrades are available:
Extended trip duration up to a maximum of 90 days

For further information please call the Upgrade number shown overleaf.
So, Aviva correctly explained that Mr Os policy only covered trips that were no 
longer than 31 days in duration, and given Mr Os pre-booked dates of travel were 11 
March 2020 to 23 April 2020 it correctly concluded his trip fell outside of that.
Mr O has said that the travel disruption he faced came into effect very shortly after 
his trip had commenced, and certainly within 31 days of him leaving the UK so there 
should be some coverage under his policy. Under the policys Helpful and important 
information about your insurance section, the trip limit element is further explained 
as:
Trip Limit
You are covered for any trip beginning and ending in the UK that lasts no more than 
31 days: please make sure that this trip duration is adequate for your need before 
you travel. There is no cover at all for any trip that is longer than 31 days and we will 
not insure any part of any trip that is longer that 31 days unless you have purchased 
an appropriate trip extension upgrade before you leave home to begin your trip.
If you require cover for an extended duration please call the Upgrade helpline 
number shown before you book your holiday, to ask whether or not we can extend 
the trip limit under this policy.
I appreciate the position Mr O has taken here, but Im satisfied Aviva applied the 
terms and conditions of his policy fairly when explaining there was no cover available 
for any part of his trip. 
As referenced above, a policy holder may be able to purchase a trip extension 
upgrade. If Mr O had wanted this upgrade, hed have needed to call Aviva prior to 
booking his trip to see if it was available to him. Mr O didnt have any such upgrade 
for the trip he claimed for however, and I remain satisfied Aviva applied the terms 
and conditions of his policy correctly.
The compensation
Compensation is not intended to be a punitive measure. It is designed to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss mistake has had on someone. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr O, but I wont be recommending an increase in Avivas compensation for 
these reasons:
Aviva accepts it misled Mr Os expectations when one of its emails made refence to considering his claim. Mr O has said this was a careless, deliberate, or reckless 
misrepresentation from Aviva and referred to CIDRA, but that Act doesnt apply in the 
circumstances of this complaint. CIDRA came into force on 6 April 2013 and its 
relevant to misrepresentations a consumer might make when taking out or renewing 
an insurance policy.
I understand why Mr O is frustrated with the incorrect information Aviva gave him. It 
temporarily led him to believe the costs he was seeking may be considered and 
given Mr Os policy had a clear maximum trip limit, I think Aviva could have flagged 
that to him sooner than it did.
It was right of Aviva to acknowledge that it misled Mr Os expectations. But the fact it 
did so doesnt mean its now liable to accept his claim. Rather, it means it should 
recognise the impact the incorrect information had on him.
Aviva has already apologised to Mr O which I think was the right thing for it to do. It 
has also offered him £100 compensation. I know Mr O chose not to accept that offer, 
but I do think it represents a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact Avivas 
email had on him. So I think Aviva should now pay it. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, to put things right Aviva should now pay Mr O £100 in 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should put things 
right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman