DRN-2835292
The complaint
 Miss F complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI). 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2001 at the same time as a 
loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered Barclayss comments, but I have still decided to uphold this complaint. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss F but, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time, I dont think it was suitable. I say this because the PPI policy excluded claims 
arising from pre-existing medical conditions in certain circumstances. Miss F was diagnosed 
with a chronic long-term illness about 6 years before this policy started, and it is likely to 
have fallen foul of this exclusion. Because of the nature of the condition, I think shed have 
thought thered be quite a good chance shed want to claim as a result of it. 
I think its unlikely Barclays drew this to Miss Fs attention, and I dont shed have taken the 
PPI if it had. So she incurred costs that shed otherwise have avoided. 
 
Putting things right
Miss F borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Miss F needs to get back the extra shes 
paid. 
So, Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Work out and pay Miss F the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss F paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss F compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman