DRN-2457787
The complaint
Miss G complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Lloyds Bank plc, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester (Lloyds).
What happened
Miss G took out the PPI when she applied for a mortgage in April 2000. Lloyds and Miss G 
agreed that the sale took place during a meeting in a branch of the bank, and that the policy 
was recommended for Miss G. Miss G said that she wasnt given a clear choice about taking 
the PPI, and she didnt need it 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Miss G at a monthly 
cost of £38.00. The monthly benefit was the mortgage payment - £630.79 - plus £3 for every 
£1,000 of her initial mortgage, subject to a maximum of £1,300. If Miss G had made a 
successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss G disagreed and asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds sent in copies of Miss Gs mortgage application form, PPI application, mortgage offer 
and interview note, along with its computer records of Miss Gs mortgage account. It also 
sent in a copy of the PPI schedule of cover, and a covering letter addressed to Miss G and 
dated July 2000. Miss G sent in copies of her mortgage quotation and extracts from booklets 
received at the time of the sale. 
The mortgage application form has yes and no tick boxes, in a section marked payment 
protection insurance, for applicants to say whether they wanted PPI  in this case theres a 
tick in the yes box. I also have a copy of Miss Gs PPI application form  this is a separate 
form from the mortgage application. It shows her name, occupation and address and 
signature  and theres nothing on either form to say that PPI was compulsory.
I can see from the mortgage quotation that PPI was included, with the premiums for this and 
other insurance shown separately from the mortgage payment. Miss G said that the quote 
assumed the inclusion of PPI, and she was also influenced by the wording in the booklets in 
relation to PPI  that is, the cover was strongly recommended. Having looked at the quote, I 
can also see a reference to a note on another page, which says that if the applicant had 
decided not to take PPI the figure in that section of the quote would show as £0.00. In this 
case the cost was shown as £38  this suggests there was some discussion to decide on the 
inclusion of the cost in the quote at least.
I accept that the tone of the wording that Miss G mentioned was designed to encourage 
readers to consider taking PPI, but this was a general statement rather than a personal 
recommendation (although Miss G did then receive a personal recommendation). 
I also accept that I cant know how the adviser presented the PPI during the meeting, and 
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss G has said. But overall, I dont think I can fairly 
say its most likely that the PPI was presented as compulsory, which is what Id have to do to 
be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this 
is what happened. 
As Ive said, Lloyds advised Miss G to take out the PPI. So it had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Miss G. On balance I think it was.
As the sale took place during a meeting, I cant know whether the adviser fully explained the 
PPI policy details - especially the things not covered. But I cant see that Miss G wouldve 
been affected by any of these. The monthly cost was included in the quotation, and Ive no 
evidence to suggest it was unaffordable for her. 
Miss G told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay. She also said she had some savings  the amount 
she mentioned was equivalent to about six months salary, and she said that she had an 
endowment policy she couldve cashed in. However, an endowment policy is a long-term 
investment, and early surrender can affect the level of return. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but having considered all of the evidence and arguments 
in this case, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the policy and I consider it 
more likely than not that Miss G would still have taken it out had Lloyds fully explained the 
terms and conditions. The policy provided useful benefits which would  notwithstanding the 
employment benefits and savings she mentioned  help her manage the consequences 
were she to be unable to work through accident or disability, or made redundant. Indeed 
Miss G did make a claim on the policy as a result of a period of illness. And I think Miss G 
could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on her 
property. So on balance, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
The last information I have suggests that the policy is still in force  if this is the case and 
Miss G wishes to review or cancel it, she should contact Lloyds. I also note that Miss G has 
referred to other family members having been treated differently in their mortgage 
applications with Lloyds at the same time. However, I cannot comment on these as 
individual circumstances are different, and therefore recommendations will differ accordingly. 
I have based my decision only on the evidence and arguments relating to this complaint. 
Because I dont think the policy was mis-sold, Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss G. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss G about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
I have concluded that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit share it 
received that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman