DRN-2341320
The complaint
Ms H complains that she was charged fees when making an international transfer using 
Revolut Ltd. She wants to be compensated for the charges and for lost income as a result of 
the transfer not going through when expected. 
What happened
In April 2020 Ms H used Revolut to make an international transfer of US dollars (USD). 
Around a week later, Ms H noticed that the money had been returned to her account but 
shed been charged $70.
Ms H contacted Revolut. They told her that the transfer didnt go through as intended as 
incorrect information may have been entered by Ms H and the intermediary bank had 
charged the fees. Ms H then transferred her money to a different bank and made the 
international transfer through that account. She says she was charged a further fee for doing 
so. 
Ms H complained to Revolut about the fees charged and loss of income as a result of the 
transfer not going through. They didnt uphold her complaint and explained that they hadnt 
charged her any fees for the international transfer. Revolut offered Ms H an additional two 
months of their premium service for free.
Ms H referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator found that Revolut hadnt done 
anything wrong and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms H didnt accept the 
investigators findings. The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms H that I think the investigator reached a fair outcome here. 
So I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms H instructed Revolut to transfer money to an account abroad. It did this. But the transfer 
failed. Revolut says the reason given for the failure was BENEFICIARY SPECIFIED IS NOT 
KNOWN AT ASSOCIATED SORT/NATIONAL CLEARING CODE. In other words, the 
details were wrong. This wasnt Revoluts fault.
When the money was returned to Ms Hs account it was $70 short. Revolut has explained 
the $70 was taken in fees by the intermediary and/or receiving bank. This is common and 
Ms Hs account terms and conditions say it might happen. Ms H was also told it might 
happen when she initiated the transfer. I dont think Revolut should have to refund her the 
fees taken by other banks. And Im satisfied it did enough to make Ms H aware her transfer 
could incur fees.  
Ms H has said that when she made Revolut aware thered been a problem they werent very 
helpful. But Ive seen a copy of the chat conversation between Ms H and Revolut and I feel 
that they did their best to explain what had happened based on the information available to 
them at that time  including providing the reason why the transfer hadnt gone through. 
Ms H also asked to speak to a manger and was quickly able to. 
In response to our investigators assessment, Ms H has said Revolut told her to try the 
transfer again without changing the details. But based on the chat I can see the Revolut 
manager said: I would kindly ask you to check the beneficiary details, contact the bank and 
clarify if all good with this account and Could you please check if the details are for sure 
correct and if the beneficiary bank can accept SWIFT payments?. The manger then tried to 
assist Ms H with putting the transfer through but she was unable to based on the account 
information Ms H had at that time. So I dont think Revolut treated Ms H unfairly or 
unreasonably when trying to resolve the failed transfer issue for her. 
Ms H says based on her experience with Revolut she chose to then transfer the money 
through a different account and had to pay another transfer fee. As I dont think Revolut did 
anything wrong I dont think it put Ms H in a position where she had to do this. It follows that I 
dont think it should have to reimburse Ms H for the fee she paid to another bank. 
As a gesture of goodwill Revolut offered Ms H two months of its premium account service for 
free. I think this was a fair gesture in the circumstances.
I know Ms H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Revolut  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman