DRN-3341008
The complaint
Mr K complains about Bank of Scotland trading as Halifaxs actions after his accounts were 
blocked.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr K attempted to transfer £1,500 to another account he holds with a 
different bank. Mr K has previously made similar transfers. Halifaxs fraud prevention 
systems stopped the transfer and Mr Ks accounts were temporarily blocked. 
Mr K spoke with Halifaxs fraud prevention team and answered security questions. Mr K was 
asked to visit a branch with identification and did so a few days later. After Mr K provided 
identification his account was unblocked. But Mr K has told us he had to revisit the branch a 
short time later after receiving another alert from Halifax. Mr Ks accounts were then 
unblocked by Halifax. 
Halifax upheld Mr Ks complaint and paid him a total of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Halifax apologised that Mr K was told he couldnt raise a complaint 
over the phone and also apologised for the service provided by the fraud team. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ks complaint. They thought Halifax had dealt 
with Mr Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr K asked to appeal, so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline. I understand Mr K had carried out similar transfers previously. And 
I understand Mr K felt unwell and was concerned about Covid during the period when his 
account was blocked. Ive taken everything Mr K and Halifax have supplied into account 
when reaching my decision concerning how to resolve this complaint. 
Mr Ks statements confirm hes made similar transfers before. And I understand Mr K was 
transferring funds to his account with another bank. But Halifax has fraud prevention 
systems in place and Im satisfied the transfer in question was flagged for further checks. I 
appreciate the transfer was entirely genuine, but Halifaxs terms and conditions allow it to 
hold a payment and block accounts when theres a suspicion of fraud. The measures are 
taken to protect customers money. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but Im satisfied the transfer 
was picked up by Halifaxs fraud prevention systems and that the blocks were used in line 
with its terms and conditions. 
Mr K has told us he was concerned about visiting a branch during the pandemic and that he 
was worried about Covid. But Mr K has also told us he returned a negative result the 
evening before he visited the branch. I understand Mr Ks concerns about his options if hed 
tested positive, but we cant compensate consumers for something that mayve happened. 
Mr K hasnt told us about any issues that came about as a result of his visit to branch. I 
havent been persuaded that Halifax acted unfairly by asking Mr K to take identification into 
branch. 
There were problems that meant Mr K had to go back to the branch again. I can appreciate 
this was inconvenient for Mr K and particularly frustrating. Halifax has apologised to Mr K 
and paid him £100 for the service provided when removing the blocks from his account. I 
agree the service provided was poor but Im satisfied the compensation awarded fairly 
reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. So Im not telling Halifax to increase 
the award. 
Halifax paid Mr K another £50 to apologise for being told he couldnt raise a complaint over 
the phone. I think thats fair in the circumstances and recognises the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr K. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with his complaint fairly. As a 
result, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint because Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman