DRN-3138593
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with their request for a 
pro rata refund of the premiums they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 1 October 2019, to cover any worldwide trips of up to 
17 days duration. The policy started on 15 October 2019 and ended on 14 October 2020.
Mrs and Mr B paid £151.56 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a number of declared 
medical conditions. The price Mrs and Mr B paid also covered them for excess waiver.
On 16 August 2020, Mrs and Mr B contacted Great Lakes to request a pro rata refund of 
their travel insurance premium because they said theyd been unable to travel as theyd 
intended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Great Lakes said it couldnt offer a refund to Mrs and Mr B due to the length of time theyd 
been on cover. And it said that, under the terms of their policy, no refund was due. Mrs and 
Mr B complained to Great Lakes on 3 September 2020. They said there had been around 12 
weeks where the pandemic had precluded from foreign travel. And they stated they were 
aware that other insurers had offered refunds to its policyholders whose travel plans had 
been restricted. So, they thought Great Lakes was treating them unfairly.
On 24 September 2020 Great Lakes issued its final response to Mrs and Mr Bs complaint. It 
didnt uphold their complaint as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that 
policyholders with a policy start date of prior to 1 January 2020 werent eligible to a refund.
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint, Mrs and Mr B complained 
to our service. Their complaint was considered by our investigator, who acknowledged the 
unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 15 October 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they thought Great Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs and Mr B didnt. 
They requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
I can see that Mrs and Mr B have made our service aware of how other insurers have dealt 
with travel insurance refund requests. But this service considers complaints on an individual 
basis. So, its not our role to comment on the wider industry issues Mrs and Mr B have 
raised.  
Cover under Mrs and Mr Bs policy commenced on 15 October 2019, which is confirmed by 
the insurance documentation they received. Im satisfied Mrs and Mr B were reasonably 
made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of the cancellation 
terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of the 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
The policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period and so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive 
outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs and Mr Bs cooling-off period ended on 29 October 2019, which was 14 
days from the date the policy commenced. But Mrs and Mr B didnt contact Great Lakes to 
discuss their policy until 16 August 2020  and at this point they requested a pro rata refund. 
They didnt request the cancellation of their policy at any time. 
Even if Mrs and Mr B had requested a policy cancellation during their conversation on 16 
August 2020, this would have been outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have 
been a requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. I say this because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
I understand that the pandemic may have prevented Mrs and Mr B from travelling as theyd 
have liked or intended and that this was outside of their control. So, Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Bs contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, the pandemic didnt make it impossible for Mrs and Mr 
Bs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 15 
October 2019.
Mrs and Mr B were insured from 15 October 2019 for travelling on any number of trips on a 
worldwide basis of up to 17 days duration which they may have taken until the policy 
expired. Theyve said they had the opportunity of travelling abroad prior to the pandemic and 
I acknowledge their candour in relation to the travel they were able to undertake while 
covered by this policy. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since their 
policy was incepted. Even if there was only one holiday, Mrs and Mr B made use of their 
annual policy and Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy 
was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr B for cancellation of any holidays which 
they may have had booked and were due to take from 15 October 2019 until 14 October 
2020. So, they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, them falling ill 
with their declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mrs and Mr B making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 
15 October 2019 until 14 October 2020. And its a fundamental principle of insurance law 
that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  
the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs and Mr Bs cancellation rights 
were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr B contacted Great Lakes on 
16 August 2020 to request a pro rata refund. But they didnt cancel their policy and it ran 
until its expiry on 14 October 2020. By the time Mrs and Mr B contacted Great Lakes to 
request an extension, there was only 59 days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
If Mrs and Mr B had requested that Great Lakes cancel their policy on 16 August 2020, 
theyd have been on cover for around 306 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its claims 
experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months of an annual 
multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is not spread evenly 
across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated that there was a 
material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this annual insurance 
policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs and Mr B unfairly or any 
differently to other customers in similar circumstances. 
Given that Mrs and Mr B didnt cancel their policy, and because Great Lakes had been on 
risk for over 300 days before they contacted it to discuss their policy refund request, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to direct a refund in the circumstances of this case. It follows 
that I dont think Great Lakes acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining to refund Mrs and 
Mr B any of the premiums they paid. So, Im not going to uphold this complaint or direct 
Great Lakes to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman