DRN-2923857
The complaint
X complains that Inchcape Retail Limited (Inchcape) misrepresented a finance agreement 
to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint X, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Here, for instance, X says that she 
was led to believe insurance products were included in the agreement at no charge, but 
Inchcape dont agree. So, I have to decide on the evidence available to me what was most 
probable.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If X was told something that wasnt true and that led her to into an agreement with Inchcape 
that she would not otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her and Id ask Inchcape to take some further action.
Whilst I dont doubt that X believed insurance products were included in the agreement I 
dont think it would be reasonable to suggest they were or there is sufficient evidence an 
agreement had been reached that they should be, because:
the amended finance agreement didnt list them, and I think its reasonable to expect 
X to have read and understood that document before signing it;
X signed the Demands and Needs document to say she didnt need the insurance 
products;
Inchcapes marketing plan didnt include any promotions in which insurance products 
would be offered for free and theyve explained dealerships would not therefore be 
allowed to include them. That supports Inchcapes assertion that the products were 
originally to be paid for in cash by X and that in the revised agreement that cash 
payment was used instead to reduce the balance due on the car;
the price reductions that were given seem consistent with Inchcapes explanation that 
consumers attending the VIP event would benefit from two discounts, one of which 
would not be available after the VIP event. Ive not seen evidence that there was a 
free insurance offer at that event;
whilst the hand-written note provided by X does list the insurance products, it doesnt 
explain they are being offered for free and, indeed, the individual costs for each 
insurance item is listed.
So, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest this agreement was mis-sold and Im 
not asking Inchcape to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman