DRN-4217458
The complaint
Mr C and Ms P complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund a 
payment which they say was lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint is well-known to both parties so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr C was contacted on social media by an individual who introduced him to an investment 
opportunity  which unfortunately turned out to be a scam. Between March and September 
2021, Mr C made a number of payments from his joint NatWest account to the scam. These 
werent paid directly to the scammers, but variously to another payment account he held, 
and his cryptocurrency wallet, before being moved on to the scam. 
When Mr C found out about the scam, he complained to NatWest about the last payment  
for £600, paid to his cryptocurrency wallet. It wouldnt refund him, so he referred the matter 
to us.
Our investigator clarified with Mr C and Ms P (via their professional representative) that they 
were only complaining about the last payment. He didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think NatWest was at fault for not intervening with the payment. And as it went via Mr Cs 
cryptocurrency wallet, it wasnt able to recover it via a chargeback claim.
Mr C and Ms P appealed. They said the payment was unusual so the bank should have 
intervened, and that may have prevented the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As Mr C and Ms P are disputing a card payment, made to Mr Cs own cryptocurrency 
wallet, the loss isnt covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, NatWest is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Although I accept Mr C 
ultimately lost these funds to a scam, it is not in dispute that he authorised the 
payment. So the starting position is that he and Ms P (as the joint account holder) are 
liable for it.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If NatWest failed to do so here, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
However, Im not persuaded NatWest had reason to identify a fraud risk in relation to 
this £600 payment. It didnt appear particularly unusual or concerning, in amongst the 
undisputed spending on the account, such that I would have expected NatWest to 
perform further checks. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any 
concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. I therefore dont 
think NatWest can fairly be held at fault for not preventing this payment. 
As this was a card payment to Mr Cs own cryptocurrency wallet, NatWest wouldnt 
have been able to raise a successful chargeback claim to recoup the loss. Such 
claims only cover disputes with the merchant paid direct. Whereas here, the loss only 
occurred when Mr C transferred the funds on to the scammers. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr C and Ms P. But having carefully considered this 
complaint, Im not persuaded NatWest is liable for their loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman