DRN-3337516
The complaint
Mr W has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
make investments within the scheme including a discretionary managed portfolio and a 
Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr W is unrepresented in this 
complaint. 
What happened
In late 2013 Mr W was an industry worker aged 47, earning about £20,000pa and owned his 
own home worth £80,000 net of mortgages. He had no other significant assets. He says he 
was offered a pension review by an agent of a company called Your Choice Pensions Ltd 
(YCP). The agent said he could obtain better returns by transferring his Aviva pension to a 
SSAS. My understanding is that the investments under discussion would have included a 
fractional investment in TRG. 
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Ws pension, on 17 December 2013 a new 
employer was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. Mr W would later have 
signed an employment contract with that company, and on 6 January 2014 Mr W signed 
terms of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for 
the purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95). 
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
Notwithstanding that this advice hadnt yet been provided, Mr W also signed an indicative 
investment form, stating that his intention was to invest 75% of his pension in TRG and 25% 
in CMIMs discretionary fund management (DFM) service. My understanding is that YCP or 
its sister company (Consumer Money Matters) would then have requested a transfer pack 
and discharge form from Aviva, with Mr Ws authority. 
On 20 January 2014 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Ws new employer with 
him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The fee to set up 
the scheme was £750+VAT, followed by £500+VAT annually. It was registered with HMRC 
on 29 January.
On 19 February 2014 CGL then requested a transfer of Mr Ws Aviva pension policy using 
forms Mr W had signed on 30 January and most likely provided by YCP or its sister 
company. On 24 February 2014, a letter was sent to Mr W displaying CGLs logo and phone 
number. It said:
Please find enclosed written advice on your proposed investment into commercial property in 
Cape Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
under your instruction for your consideration.
Im aware of other near-identical letters sent at that time which appeared to come from YCP 
but borrowing CGLs logo. However those letters provided a different contact number  that 
of YCP. Mr Ws letter appears to have come from CGL. CMIM has sent us a copy of what 
the enclosed written advice  a so-called dear Trustee letter - would have said.  The letter 
does not refer to Mr W by name and mentions that the business has been introduced by 
YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with advice that it understands to be 
unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and furthermore, the TRG investment 
involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort.
You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification carefullyWe have 
not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities and accordingly are not 
providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such 
investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you seek independent 
financial advice
Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personal 
circumstances, which we have not assessed.It seems Aviva took some time to make Mr Ws transfer because it was not until 21 July 
2014 that CGL received £25,776 from Aviva. It notes that on 23 July Mr W returned a signed 
letter giving investment instructions as trustee of his SSAS. The letter read as follows:
The purpose of this letter is to confirm that, in accordance with the power of investment under the 
SSAS trust deed and rules and after due consideration of the investment advice I have received 
(referred to below), I wish to proceed to invest my SSAS fund as follows
£9,333.33 of the value of my SSAS fund in the Cape Verde investment opportunity offered by The 
Resort Group and
£10,000.00 of the value of my SSAS fund in [CMIM]s discretionary fund management services
The advice Mr W had considered was explained as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in 
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately 
qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the 
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of
(a) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
(b) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
CGL wrote back to Mr W on 11 August 2014 to confirm receipt of his investment instruction 
and that the above amounts had been invested accordingly (the investment in DFM had 
taken place on 30 July and TRG on 7 August). However it wasnt actually until 27 February 
2015 that Mr W signed an agreement for sale of membership in a UK company limited by 
guarantee, which constituted his investment in the Dunas Beach Resort of TRG  a different 
hotel to that first envisaged. 
My understanding from other cases this service has seen is that  discounts were offered on 
the purchase, paid back to investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa for a maximum period 
of the first two years  after which rental income was expected to be payable when the resort 
opened. The UK limited company had entered into separate contracts with developers to 
build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it.
At around this time Mr W seems to have been otherwise advised to switch the £10,159 he by 
then had in CMIMs DFM to Organic Investment Management  and add another £4,000 
from the SSAS bank account. The application for this DFM was for a medium low level of 
risk and for a 10+ year investment term. Organic subsequently failed and Mr Ws remaining 
money is now managed by Philip J Milton & Company in a separate SIPP.
TRG began paying a regular monthly income of about £54 into his SSAS. That regular 
income stopped in February 2016, although resumed at the rate of around £60-70 per 
quarter from November 2016. By 2018 the income had broadly halved on average.
Mr W complained in around September 2019 that CMIMs advice had been unsuitable. 
CMIM responded that it did not have an opinion on the suitability of a SSAS for any 
individual, but it considered the advice it gave him as trustee was complaint with s.36 of 
PA95. It said its advice was generalised but heavily focused on the risks, warning trustees 
that TRG wasnt suitable for cautious investors. 
Mr W referred the complaint to this service. He told us that he had been cold-called and a 
lady from YCP visited his home to encourage him to transfer to the SSAS. When all the 
paperwork was ready she returned to collect his signature. After the event he felt that things 
had been somewhat rushed.
CMIM has made a number of submissions, both on this case and during the course of a very 
similar complaint for another individual, which I decided some time ago. I summarise all of its 
points below:It understands Mr Ws complaint to be about both the TRG and DFM investments 
within his SSAS.
Much of CMIMs data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. It entered into an introducing 
agent agreement with YCP. Its only financial benefit arose out of the opportunity to 
promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It attended numerous meetings with the 
marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky, only appropriate when considered as part of a diverse 
portfolio of investments where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its 
DFM services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk 
portfolio of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr W or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to its DFM service. A full suitability 
check relating to the specific trustee was only carried out at that point. To the best of 
its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter were very close to the date 
stated on the Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was 
placed on this letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they  
also had their own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently. 
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
After approximately 9 months Mr Ws DFM arrangement moved to Organic Investment 
Management, so CMIM has no responsibility for how he was invested after that point.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and Mr W. It 
believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.The investigators view of 26 October 2021
The investigator considered that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld for the following 
reasons:
CMIM didnt make a personal recommendation, however it did carry out the regulated 
activity of advising on investments. The dear Trustee letter included a 
recommendation on the suitability of TRG for the trustees to whom it was directed. 
Although Mr W didnt have direct contact with CMIM, he signed terms of business for it 
to provide advice - and then referred to that advice in his trustee instruction to invest, 
as CMIM knew he would do in order to comply with s.36 of PA95.
The dear Trustee letter was written in such a way that it would only deter very 
cautious trustees or those needing short-term access to funds from investing in TRG. 
So it had the effect of inducing other trustees to make the investment. It was in CMIMs 
interests that to happen and likely its intention to do so. This meant the letter also met 
the definition of a financial promotion.
The promotion of UCIS, such as TRG, is restricted under s.238 of FSMA unless an 
exemption applies. No valid exemption appeared to be available to CMIM in this case, 
meaning the promotion was unlawful.
In any event it was difficult to see how CMIMs advice achieved the purpose of s.36 of 
PA95, because that envisaged a suitability assessment specific to Mr Ws SSAS and 
therefore a personal recommendation would have been needed. It would also have 
been consistent with the FCAs principles and rules for CMIM to make such a personal 
recommendation.
Mr W had little investment experience and the SSAS was his main pension provision. 
So CMIM ought to have recognised that an investment in UCIS taking up 75% of the 
SSAS was wholly inappropriate for him. It could have advised him not to invest in TRG 
without breaching the prohibition on financial promotion.
As Aviva didnt make Mr Ws transfer until several months after hed received the dear 
Trustee letter, Mr W would have been able to stop it. And being mindful of the correct 
advice he should have received, thats what he would most likely have done.
CMIM didnt agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous 
admissions. The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects.  
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr W did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds. 
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr W were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr W to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr W to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Ws loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Ws losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr W to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address when I reach that point in 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr W to invest in TRG?
I should start by saying Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of 
advising on investments. This is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (amongst other things) as advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mr W would be participating in a (named) pooled property 
scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole. 
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Ws investment by to meet that definition. 
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that CMIM wasnt, at least, carrying out the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. For one thing, there would have been no need 
(as it has said) to attend numerous meetings or for it to have reviewed detailed 
documentation regarding the investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and 
as to risk. However, advice given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt 
caught by chapter 9 of COBS  the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It evidently didnt believe 
advice being given for s.36 of PA95 was regulated. It said in the terms of business that it 
wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances. And the end of its dear Trustee letter reminds Mr W that it hadnt assessed 
those circumstances. But my consideration of this point doesnt end there, as what the firm intended doesnt solely determine what rules apply. Firms can even be mistaken as to 
whether what they are doing is regulated or not, as seems to be the case in respect of the 
TRG investment here. And COBS 2.1.2R sets out that:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
The words the/that person indicates a personal recommendation is targeted at one person 
specifically. Nevertheless the part of the definition before the word or above indicates that 
its possible to make a personal recommendation without having gone through a process of 
considering that persons specific circumstances - if the recommendation is presented in 
such a way that the recipient still reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as 
being suitable for them in particular. That stands to reason, as one of the objectives of 
regulation is consumer protection  and the perception of the firms advice to a client is 
equally important as the actual mechanics of how the advice is given.
I consider I should therefore approach this from the point of view of what a reasonable 
person in Mr Ws position would have perceived from CMIMs advice. That involves weighing 
up everything, including that CMIM told Mr W it wasnt making a personal recommendation; 
Mr W knew he hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it. I 
accept CMIMs point that this fact-finding would only have happened if Mr W went on to 
make use of its DFM service. My understanding is that Mr W did invest with CMIM, and 
although its not clear when (or if) any further assessment of his circumstances took place, 
Im persuaded that it would have been after the dear Trustee letter. 
On balance, I think Mr W ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt 
for him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as 
an appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr W met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have carried 
more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had personally 
contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly 
a personal recommendation and Im not persuaded that it was. 
But I must emphasize here that the absence of a personal recommendation makes no 
difference to whether the regulated activity of advising on investments was being carried 
out  or what advice (in the non-personalised sense) was contained in the dear Trustee 
letter. And encouraging Mr W in the dear Trustee letter to seek further independent advice 
doesnt change the advice that was already contained in this letter. Otherwise that rather 
begs the question of why the advice was even being provided at all.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt end of this 
complaint. It remains open to me to consider whether CMIMs actions were consistent with 
the regulators wider principles (set out at PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that 
arent in chapter 9. Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note that 
as TRG was a UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr W, ancillary to its advice?The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr W to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr W had already decided to invest in TRG  he had 
completed an indicative investment form  so the dear Trustee letter would not have been 
pivotal in his thinking. However I dont think this is relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as 
highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients to draw, in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term;
- the risks CMIM highlighted in the letter were being mitigated by the strategy it was 
proposing to diversify their investment with a DFM arrangement held alongside it;
- no assistance provided (such as by way of showing tolerance for loss in example 
scenarios) for them to understand whether they met this cautious definition  and 
to counteract the tendency they may otherwise have to follow the herd.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr W to take his own 
independent advice; as such advice would have analysed his own risk appetite. But I think 
this misses the point. If that was what CMIM considered Mr W should do, it shouldnt have 
been commenting in a way that allowed him to infer that he didnt actually need that advice.
I dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter was written in this way. CMIM 
stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM services, if a trustee went ahead with 
the TRG part of the investment. It would have been apparent to CMIM that other third parties 
had quite a lot of influence over what the trustees did, as this is the basis of much of its 
arguments now. So, it was unlikely to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to 
discourage the investment in TRG.
I also think that given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in persuading Mr W to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about 
how much attention Mr W paid to it at the time, he then signed an investment instruction 
declaring that he had regard for CMIMs advice. There was, of course, a reason for that: 
Mr W was required under PA95 to consider advice before making the investment. 
Whether or not Mr W was simply signing where a third party told him shouldnt in my view 
have diminished the importance that this step should have held to CMIM  or that it ought to 
have realised its advice was an inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. 
CMIM seems to have taken the view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mr W to invest 
because of vested interests, yet it did not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014  more 
than a month before Mr W received the dear Trustee letter  FCA revised the list of 
exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R. The new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a 
promotion where the communication met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice 
on the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 read as follows: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or appointed 
representative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation status, who has a 
relevant business relationship with the firm.
Setting aside that a personal recommendation wasnt made anyway, its also clear that 
YCPs introducer agreement with CMIM would always have made this exclusion unavailable 
 because the introducer, rather than the trustee, was soliciting the advice. The wording of 
the exclusion itself confirms that advice can also amount to a promotion  even where a third 
party had previously promoted the investment. That is what happened here: CMIM promoted 
and advised on the investment (although didnt make a personal recommendation).
Did Mr W qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
Mr W is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of 
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since.
This leaves the range of exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R. Not only was the solicited 
advice one (mentioned above) unavailable, I also cant see that any of the others were  not 
least because Mr W doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated investor 
and didnt have any of the other professions or roles specified. The January 2014 clamping 
down on UCIS promotion had been well-publicised by the regulator. They meant that the 
former exemption of A personfor whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that 
investment in the collective investment scheme is suitable was no longer available either.
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr W, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it 
ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to
Mr W previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr W paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letterI appreciate CMIM finds this frustrating but at a fundamental level, I dont think it can alter 
the overall conclusion Im going to reach on this complaint. As Ive set out above: whether 
something counts as an inducement, and is therefore a financial promotion which in this 
case was unlawful, depends in part on how it would be received by a reasonable person; not 
necessarily someone (Mr W) that CMIM considers wasnt inclined to read the letter. 
It also depends on the inducement being a significant step in Mr W making the investment, 
which again I think it was by virtue of CGL (as the SSAS administrator) requiring this letter to 
be issued before Mr W invested. And that, again, applies whatever the level of attention 
Mr W paid to the content of the letter. So its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as 
well have not existed, as it fundamentally affects the outcome of the complaint.
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, but I 
neither find it misleading to the extent CMIM suggests, or in a way which materially alters 
CMIMs own responsibility in these arrangements. For instance CMIM says that although 
CGL didnt refer to suitability advice, it encouraged Mr W to confirm that he believed CMIM 
to be an appropriately qualified adviser for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect 
Mr W did think hed received suitability advice.
All of this pre-supposes that Mr W would have understood the difference between advice 
and suitability advice. He was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in 
financial matters. So I think he the most he would have reasonably understood was that he 
was getting an appropriately qualified opinion on including TRG in his SSAS. That is a 
correct reflection of the regulations he as trustee was subject to. I cant see that Mr W was 
misled if CMIM now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It says it attended meetings with the other 
parties involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was discussed to attract new 
clients to invest in TRG. Yes it now says it should have been obvious (to CGL, but strangely 
not CMIM) that those clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. I think these  
arguments actually serve to demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in 
inducing Mr Ws investment into TRG at all. It was always apparent that none of the other 
parties in the transaction were regulated by the FCA and CMIM could not, as a result, expect 
them to have the same duty of care to clients as a regulated firm.
But the most important for me to reiterate here is that I consider this was a financial 
promotion which was unlawful, and therefore it should not have happened in any event  
irrespective of Mr Ws level of attention to the dear Trustee letter.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments.
But in any event at the time Mr W received his dear Trustee letter, COBS 4.12.5G also said 
that where a firm communicated any promotion of investments such as UCIS in the context 
of advice, it should have regard to and comply with its obligations under COBS 9. So this 
implies a personal recommendation. This is also clear from the wording of the one 
exemption allowed where a client genuinely solicits independent advice: the regulator 
expects a personal recommendation to be made, or the exemption isnt available. Given how 
restricted the promotion of UCIS had become, the regulator seems to have taken the view 
that any advice had to be more than simply generic and non-personalised. Its also difficult to see how advice that was stated in the terms of business to enable a 
trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of PA95 could not be 
personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and diversification, 
and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small size, most of the 
regulations in the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005 dont 
cover Mr Ws SSAS. But regulation 7 does and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
It doesnt seem to be a coincidence that this precise wording was reflected in the investment 
instructions CGL required Mr W to sign. And I cant fairly say it was possible for Mr W to 
obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, and provided adequate diversification for the 
circumstances of his SSAS, without a recommendation being made specifically in respect of 
the requirements and objectives of that SSAS.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
- take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
couldnt track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter were. (That is, unless YCP 
remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later heard 
from them because theyd signed up for its DFM service). That calls into question whether 
CMIM was adhering to Principle 3.
I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care CMIM should take in 
formulating advice (whether thats a personal recommendation or not). In observance of 
these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM could take:
Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and 
therefore come into contact with clients like Mr W at all; or
Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Taking reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr W, which 
was tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due 
regard to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Being mindful that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not 
amount to promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
- Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr W directly, rather than supplying it 
via third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would 
reach Mr W, if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was 
positively in favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or wanted to 
ensure it made direct personal recommendations, I accept its possible that those parties would have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable 
outcome. However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr W was required 
to take couldnt be given by just any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given by a 
person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of that Act 
(prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And in this context I think its also 
reasonable to expect any regulated adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and 
rules as CMIM should have been. So I would have expected any regulated adviser to 
consider the position on promotion; whether a personal recommendation would be expected 
by the regulator; and the consequences of it giving advice in favour of investing that couldnt 
be supported by a valid exemption.
CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising Mr W at all, and it chose not to 
take that route. So I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of a 
proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr W to satisfy the regulators 
expectations and those of PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. 
So it ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up the vast majority of a SSAS 
 which was that consumers sole pension provision  was plainly unsuitable for a retail 
investor. Especially one of medium low risk such, as was determined for Mr Ws later 
Organic portfolio (noting that CMIM has provided no evidence of its own assessment). 
There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property 
development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks 
 to counter that presumption. Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being 
promoted to Mr W was in order to invest in TRG. And at the time Mr W received CMIMs 
dear Trustee letter, it seems to have been at an early stage of Aviva carrying out its checks 
before sending his funds to the SSAS. So I need to consider how he would have acted, if 
CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG. That might for 
example have included a recommendation for DFM on his whole portfolio.
Demonstrably Mr W wouldnt have obtained advice that was in favour of investing in TRG, so 
I find it unlikely that the other parties involved would have been interested in him proceeding 
to transfer to the SSAS on that basis. It was evidently important to them that the advice he 
took for the purposes of PA95 supported the investment decision he made. As Ive said 
above, I think its reasonable to conclude that any other regulated firm they might have 
approached instead should have given the same advice as CMIM. Even though theres a 
possibility they could have tried to locate an more unscrupulous unregulated firm, that begs 
the question why they didnt go straight to one of those firms in the first place.
Firstly, I think such a firm would have been more difficult to find  I note even CMIM says it 
did not have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS, 
which was plainly what was required here. Secondly, I expect they believed Mr W was likely to take advice from a regulated firm more seriously. And thirdly, they would know pension 
providers like Aviva had introduced checks after 2013 required by the Pensions Regulator to 
reduce the possibility of pension liberation. Even if liberation wasnt happening in Mr Ws 
case, he might still be asked if he was being advised by a regulated adviser, for example.
From what I can see in this case, Mr W didnt have particularly close ties to making the 
investment  such as a connection with friends or family. He had simply been cold-called. He 
told our investigator himself that he felt rushed into making the investment. As CMIM itself 
realises, it was brought on board to legitimise Mr Ws investment in TRG. But its advice 
should have far from legitimised the investment. It should have made very clear that it was 
unsuitable for Mr W. And once that opinion had been given I cant safely say it could easily 
have been undone by the opinion of an unregulated adviser hastily brought in afterwards.
Im satisfied the more likely outcome is that any further attempts to secure Mr Ws TRG 
investment would have failed in the light of CMIMs advice. As a result, he would never have 
had a reason to confirm his agreement at a later stage for his Aviva funds to be transferred, 
and he would have remained in the Aviva plan.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Ws losses to CMIM?
I didnt know whether Mr W intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but 
the Financial Ombudsman Service does not cover the activities of occupational pension 
scheme administrators. In any case there is a higher bar against financial advisers, and this 
is reflected in the way they are regulated and rules they must follow. So its also 
understandable that Mr W has chosen to bring this complaint to us.
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it could have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. Nevertheless CGL 
didnt act as a professional trustee. CMIM was the one providing FCA-regulated advice to 
Mr W as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had an opportunity to check for itself what the 
requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it shouldnt have given the advice.
CMIM also says that Mr Ws own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. I 
cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid 
the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr W would have chosen to invest in TRG come what 
may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating Mr W to CMIM. 
Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that on the 
balance of probabilities Mr W would still have gone ahead with transferring his pension in 
order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated him fairly. I dont need to be 100% sure of this in 
order to make a finding that CMIM is responsible for Mr Ws losses. But I am persuaded of it 
on the balance of probabilities. 
If an investigator has taken a different view on causation on another complaint, then CMIM 
ought to bear in mind that either party can refer the initial view to an ombudsman. I may not 
have agreed with the initial view on the other complaint it has mentioned.
I think the effect of CMIM placing a barrier in Mr Ws way would have been more likely to 
deter his ultimate investment than not. Im satisfied its likely he would have heeded the 
proper advice he was told he would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM.
Mr W received the dear Trustee letter and signed the investment instruction before his 
funds were even transferred across by Aviva. So I dont agree CMIMs involvement came too late for it to have caused Mr Ws losses. The conclusion Ive reached is that no funds would 
have arrived in the SSAS from Aviva because Mr W would likely have aborted that transfer.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr W in the position he would have been in, 
had Mr W not gone ahead with the transfer from Aviva to the SSAS at all.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Aviva to obtain a 
notional value for Mr Ws policy as at the date of my final decision, assuming that it 
continued to be invested in the same funds after it was transferred-out in July 2014. As a 
condition of accepting this decision Mr W will need to give CMIM his authority to obtain this 
information. CMIM should check that no tax-free cash or income payments have been taken 
 if they have, the gross amounts of these payments will need to be allowed for accordingly. 
This notional value should be compared with the actual value of Mr Ws CGL SSAS 
(including any associated SIPP if that now contains the proceeds of the CMIM DFM funds) 
as at the date of my final decision. Any currently outstanding administration charges yet to 
be applied to the CGL SSAS should also be deducted from the actual value first.
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That may be the case with the TRG holding in the CGL 
SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should 
include anything CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy those investments from CGL SSAS it 
should give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair 
that Mr W should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL 
SSAS and move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated 
arrangement. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them 
what to do. So to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that CMIM also 
covers five years worth of future administration fees at the current tariff for the 
CGL SSAS as part of the compensation, to allow a reasonable period of time for 
the CGL SSAS to be closed.
In response to the investigators view CMIM has suggested that it may be able to use an 
independent valuer for the investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil 
value), even if it is not actually buying the investment from the SSAS. The value required 
here is not the opinion of someone who is not actually prepared to (or unable to) buy the 
investment from the SSAS, as it will be dictated by whether there is any market for the 
investment at all. And that will be affected by what I understand are acknowledged difficulties 
in establishing proper ownership and receiving income from the investment. I also cannot 
anticipate whether TRG will be permitting that ownership to change hands because clearly 
legal processes would be involved.
To the extent that it is possible to transfer ownership, if CMIM believes that the investment 
has value then it can benefit by buying the investment out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is not 
taking ownership of the investment, and as Im not aware that the investment would be 
attractive on the open market in its current position, it may ask Mr W to provide an 
undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive 
from the investment in future. The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery. If CMIM wishes to do this it should 
be done after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need to meet any costs in drawing up 
the undertaking. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and undertaking, but 
rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If CMIM asks Mr W to 
provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is a loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any protections or 
allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay that amount 
direct to Mr W. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%.
CMIM must also pay Mr W £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
If Aviva cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for Mr Ws 
investment instead, and use it in the same way in its calculations. CMIM responded to the 
investigators view by suggesting that it would use the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index in Mr Ws and all other similar cases. But in my view in order to arrive at 
fair and reasonable compensation an appropriate benchmark will depend on what we think is 
likely to have been a consumers contemporaneous attitude to risk. 
Mr W was 47 at the time of advice and not particularly close to retirement. We know that he 
had a medium low level of risk when he applied for the Organic DFM portfolio, but in my view 
this assessment was likely reached out of awareness that greater risks were being taken 
elsewhere in the SSAS. Taking all of this into account, and only if Aviva cannot provide a 
notional value  which remains the preferred method of redressing this complaint  I 
consider that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index would be the 
appropriate benchmark to use in this case. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although it is called 
an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to 
allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr W's circumstances and 
likely risk attitude.
It doesnt mean that Mr W would specifically have made investments that exactly mirrored 
the return on this index. For that reason CMIM should not be deducting investment costs or 
other charges from the benchmark. That misses the point, as the view Im taking here is that 
the sort of funds Mr W would have remained invested in with Aviva would typically have performed broadly in line with this benchmark; notwithstanding the level of charges which of 
itself would be lower than those incurred in the SSAS. It is a proxy that is being used for the 
purposes of compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or indeed gains (if any) in the DFM portfolio form part of Mr Ws 
overall loss. I note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own 
DFM portfolio was appropriate for Mr W, which it cannot say for the subsequent 
reinvestment. But Ive reached the conclusion that Mr W would have had no reason to be 
transferring his pension from Aviva at all, but for CMIMs failings  and Aviva wouldnt have 
permitted DFM in the type of plan Mr W held. 
So including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Mr W back into 
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider as those appear to have been encouraged by the very 
same third parties with which CMIM had agreed to get involved with in a way which did not 
act in the best interests of Mr W and its other clients.
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Ws loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Ws rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and award compensation as set out in the Putting things right 
section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman