DRN-3901817
The complaint
Mrs Z complains about IPS Pensions Ltd, trading as the James Hay Partnership (JH), and 
the various errors theyve made in managing her SIPP account. 
What happened
Mrs Zs late husband was a client of JH from the late 1990s until he passed away in June 
2020. He had a SIPP with JH, which held shares in various companies. These would pay 
dividends at various times in the year into the SIPP bank account, from which income would 
be drawn. During this period, Mrs Z managed his affairs with JH. His interest in the SIPP 
was transferred to Mrs Z upon his passing.  
Mrs Z managed the SIPP smoothly until her husbands passing, but problems started to 
occur after this. Mrs Z was unable to gain online access in June 2020, and then regularly 
had to spend up to two hours on the phone trying to speak to someone. She says she was 
promised call-backs that never happened. And many of the dividends she was expecting 
from the investments that sat within the SIPP were missing, meaning the income she was 
able to draw from the SIPP was less than usual. 
Problems continued into 2021. Mrs Z spoke to each of the respective investment providers 
to find out what had happened to the dividends shed been expecting. Mrs Z provided this 
information to JH. She later complained to JH, asking them to provide a designated person 
to act as her point of contact moving forward, and to be provided with accurate and prompt 
details confirming when dividend monies were credited to her SIPP. She also asked for a 
refund of the fees shed been charged for the period after August 2020, and compensation 
for the many hours shed spent speaking to the investment companies and with JH. 
In October 2021, after further exchanges, JH responded to Mrs Zs complaint. They said, 
after Mrs Z took over her late husbands pension benefits, certain dividend mandates for 
various investments hadnt been updated. This meant some dividends were sent to JH by 
cheque, and these would take longer to process. They apologised for this. And an 
explanation for the missing dividends was also provided. They also confirmed theyd written 
to the individual investments with their bank details, to ensure all correct mandates were in 
place, and asked that future payments were correctly referenced so that all future dividends 
would be paid directly to Mrs Zs SIPP account. JH offered Mrs Z £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience shed experienced and confirmed fee refunds totalling just under £1,900 (later 
increased by £126 to cover reimbursement of investment company administration fees). 
However, Mrs Z was unhappy with this outcome. She said there were still many unresolved 
dividend issues. And over subsequent months, more dividends werent allocated to her 
account correctly or in a timely manner. She said JH still hadnt provided updated JH bank 
details to four of her SIPP investments  so she brought her complaint to our Service. 
During the course of exchanges with our Investigator, JH were asked to consider increasing 
their offer of compensation, as the dividend problems continued after their October 2021 
final response was sent. But JH felt their fee refunds were fair compensation. They also said 
theyd likely contest any award asking them to pay 8% interest on any late or missing 
dividends  as some delays were caused by the investment provider not correctly 
referencing the dividend payments made. JH also explained Mrs Z declined their offer of a 
loan arrangement, equivalent to the amount of the missing dividends, which would be 
repaid as and when the missing dividends arrived. JH repeated that theyd taken steps to 
alert the investment providers to properly reference the dividends paid.
JH also commented on the payment arrangement existing on Mrs Zs SIPP  saying theyd 
inadvertently set up a regular bespoke arrangement to calculate and pay to Mrs Z an 
income equivalent to the available cash balance in her SIPP Bank Account each month 
They advised this wasnt a service offered to any other client of theirs, and that it couldnt 
continue. They wanted Mrs Z to determine her fixed income each month in advance. 
Mrs Z advised she wasnt prepared to accept having to fix her income. Shed managed the 
SIPP for over 20 years, receiving a monthly income dependent on what the balance in the 
SIPP bank account was each month. She didnt see why this needed to change now. 
However, our Investigator thought JHs offer was fair. He noted JH had agreed errors were 
made, which led to Mrs Z experiencing distress and financial disadvantage. So, he focused 
his thoughts on whether their offer was fair. He referenced the offer JH had made to provide 
a temporary loan to cover unpaid dividends. And emphasised where we think a business has 
done something wrong, we look to return the consumer to the position they would have been 
in had the mistake not happened  which this loan offer helped to achieve. 
He explained that usually, given the significant inconvenience Mrs Z has experienced, hed 
have asked JH to pay a higher compensation figure for this distress. But, theyve offered to 
refund more fees than hed have expected them to, and so these balanced themselves out  
and he wouldnt ask JH to pay anything extra. And he felt it was fair for JH to say they 
couldnt continue to provide the bespoke drawdown arrangement  it was their right to 
make business decisions regarding how they operated their business. 
Mrs Z didnt accept this view. She felt it was unfair we werent awarding 8% interest on late 
dividend payments (something the first Investigator who reviewed her case had suggested 
might happen). And shed spent significant time trying to identify missing payments, which 
she shouldnt have needed to do. She explained that mistakes continued to be made even 
after our Service got involved. She asked for an Ombudsman to consider her complaint 
afresh, and so its been passed to me to review and issue a decision. 
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on this complaint on 22 December 2022, saying as 
follows:
My Provisional Decision
I want to begin by expressing my condolences to Mrs Z, following the loss of her husband. I 
also want to assure her Ive read all the emails shes sent to us  the copy emails shed sent 
to JH over time, the summaries, and the various emails shes sent to both our Investigators 
who have worked on this complaint. 
She has made many points in these, reiterating the concerns shes had regarding her 
dealings with JH. But in writing this decision, I wont be addressing every one of these. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I believe are the fundamental issues that remain to be concluded. 
JH have readily accepted the service they provided to Mrs Z, since her husbands passing, 
fell below an acceptable standard. I agree. So, I dont need to make a finding on that. Instead, I need to consider if JH has taken all appropriate steps (within their power) to 
correct the dividend collection and application mistakes Mrs Z experienced. And, to see if 
Mrs Z has been placed back in the position she should have been in had the mistakes not 
been made. Ill also reconsider the level of distress this episode has caused Mrs Z, and 
award appropriate redress for that.
JH have accepted they made mistakes. They didnt properly update the investment providers 
with new payment reference details, causing dividends to be returned unpaid. To rectify this 
and try and ensure payments didnt go missing moving forward, I can see JH contacted the 
various investments. They asked for future payments to be referenced in a certain way, so 
they could be properly tracked and allocated. But I know that certain investment providers 
have either been unable (or unwilling) to do this, and even those able to make changes 
havent always used the correct referencing when making a dividend payment. And having 
made very recent enquiries with JH to understand the continuing extent of this problem, 
theyve advised this situation hasnt improved:
- One confirmed they are unable to apply individual references to each of their 
dividend payments instructions  JH said they will continue to write to them asking 
them to do this
- Another two have advised JH in writing that they have updated their bank details, and 
yet this hasnt been consistently applied since. JH continue to write to them to ask 
them to comply with JHs instructions
This has continued to cause problems for JH in being able to accurately track and apply the 
payments received. But I cant fairly conclude this is still JHs fault  there is only so much 
they can do to influence how these investment providers operate. Thats not to say I dont 
appreciate or sympathise with the concerns Mrs Z has about the continued dividend 
collection operation of the SIPP. Its clear this has and continues to cause Mrs Z distress. 
But I cant fairly say this continuing distress is being caused by JHs actions (or inaction). 
In December, I also asked JH to confirm whether any dividends remain mis-allocated or 
unallocated. I was provided with a list of dividends due until the end of November 2022, 
detailing the dates on which they were paid. JH also said they were unaware of any 
payments having been rejected or being outstanding. 
Mrs Z has asked if there is anything I can do here to try and influence these investment 
providers in how they address their dividends. The simple answer is No Im afraid. Im 
considering a complaint against JH only, so I cant make a finding against the investment 
providers here, or one against JH that compels them to ensure these investment providers 
reference their dividends correctly. That would be something JH is powerless to do.
So, taking all the above into account, Im satisfied JH has done all it reasonably can do  
and what Id have asked it to do - to try and rectify the dividend collection/allocation 
problems. So, I just need to consider whether Mrs Z has been adequately recompensed for 
the problems she experienced. 
Ill begin by considering the late payment issue. Usually, where a business hasnt paid a 
consumer something when they should have done  here, made mistakes causing Mrs Z to 
have a smaller income due to dividends not being correctly or efficiently posted  Id award 
interest (8% simple) on the late payments. This is our standard approach in these situations, 
as JH is aware, so in principle I think this is what Mrs Z would ordinarily be entitled to  this 
is because Mrs Z had been deprived of the use of those funds for a period of time. Here, however, settling on a fair calculation isnt straightforward, not least because some 
investment providers helped cause some of the delays (as detailed above). It wouldnt be fair 
to ask JH to pay interest on late payments where delays were caused by those providers. Its 
also not practical to try and calculate specific delay periods for each dividend received in the 
period. So, I wont be asking JH to carry out such a calculation here. 
But the fact remains Mrs Z experienced a shortfall in income for many months because of 
the above problems. And in principle this should be recognised here. I acknowledge JH has 
already refunded nearly £1,900 worth of fees by way of an apology, but I consider this to be 
a fair refund for the poor service shed received (more below on that). I think a separate 
amount should be awarded in lieu of the late payments/income she was deprived of. And 
having broadly considered the dividend amounts at the time, I think £400 provides fair 
compensation for the part of the financial loss that JH caused Mrs Z when she was without 
use of the income she was entitled to. 
Continuing provision of Mrs Zs bespoke arrangement. 
JH remained adamant they wouldnt be able to continue providing the monthly income 
calculation method that Mrs Z has traditionally used  they dont do it for anyone else, and 
they dont charge extra for the work it entails. They even suggested Mrs Z could consider 
transferring her investments to another provider who may be able to provide such a bespoke 
service. Whilst I make no comment on that suggestion  that is clearly something for Mrs Z 
to consider  I think I should address the issue of JH being able to change the way they 
operate their SIPP products. Section 1 of their SIPP Terms and Conditions says as follows:
- 1.1: We may change the Terms and Conditions from time to time. We will give you at 
least 30 Days prior written notice of any material change
- 1.3: We will generally only make a material change to our Terms and Conditions for the 
following valid reasons; to
- (5): provide for the introduction of new systems or changes to existing systems, 
methods of operating, outsourcing or administration, services or facilities
I appreciate Mrs Z has been able to benefit from the previous way the SIPP operated for 
many years  dividends were received, and income paid dependent on what the SIPP bank 
account balance was at a given point each month. This amount was not fixed, as dividends 
received would change each month. But Im satisfied JH is entitled to change the way they 
operate their SIPP. Whilst I havent seen a copy of any letter officially notifying Mrs Z of their 
decision to stop providing the existing service, its clearly been more than 30 days since 
Mrs Z became aware that JH couldnt continue to provide it.  
Where that practically leaves Mrs Z, and her ability to control the level of income she 
receives on a monthly basis, I cant say. It is something Mrs Z will need to carefully consider 
moving forward, to see what is best for her. But I do think, given all that has happened here, 
she should be given enough time to make that decision. 
So, Im going to ask JH to continue operating the existing bespoke arrangement for a 
further period of six months after the date Mrs Z accepts (if she does) my final decision. This 
should hopefully give her enough time to work out her best option moving forward, whether 
that is to agree on a fixed monthly income, or to move her investments to another provider. 
And, if she chooses to move to another SIPP provider, Ill be asking JH to waive all fees (as 
theyd previously offered) associated with any in-specie transfers that need to be made  this offer limited to any request made to JH, or transfer process commenced, within the same 
six-month period.
Single point of contact
JH also explained their internal structure has changed over the years, and the dedicated 
admin team Mrs Z was accustomed to dealing with is no longer segregated from the rest of 
JHs business. So, the service Mrs Z was accustomed to using simply no longer existed 
anymore  and it wouldnt be fair to expect JH to arrange such a service just for her. 
Again, echoing what Ive said above, I cant say JH has acted unfairly here. Its for JH to 
decide how they structure their organisation. Nevertheless, I asked JH if there was a person 
who could act as a single point of contact for Mrs Z, given the problems shes experienced. 
JH responded to advise no other customer of theirs has a single point of contact, and it 
would be unfair to provide Mrs Z bespoke treatment that others have no access to. I think 
this is a fair comment. But, as a temporary compromise, JH has provided the name of 
someone in their Trading and Settlements Team who is aware of Mrs Zs case and the 
difficulties shes faced. They have offered that, if Mrs Z has an enquiry about the dividends 
available in her SIPP account, she can send a message to JH via their secure on-line portal, 
marked for the attention of this person (details to be provided separately).
I think this is a sensible, and fair compromise in the circumstances. But it wouldnt be fair to 
JH for this to be an open-ended arrangement, and so I think JH should provide this 
arrangement for the same six-month period Ive mentioned above.
JH fees
JH has already refunded just under £1,900 of fees, plus reimbursed two further sums of £63. 
These amounts reflect JHs full charges for the period between October 2020 and December 
2021. However, Mrs Z has asked that more refunds are made - £189.60 charged in May 
2020, and amounts totalling £1,112.40 covering admin charges post-December 2021. 
I wont be asking JH to refund these amounts. I think their offer to refund all of their fees 
covering the period when the majority of the problems were occurring is fair. But JH did still 
provide a service during this period and continued to do so after December 2021. It would be 
unfair of me to conclude they warrant no fees whatsoever over a near three-year period.
Distress and Inconvenience   
Ill turn now to the issue of distress and inconvenience, and the level of compensation 
offered by JH. Its clear that Mrs Z has experienced significant distress stemming from the 
problems shes experienced. This all happened whilst coping with the very recent loss of her 
husband. It was compounded by the significant amount of time she had to spend trying to 
un-pick the transactions that had occurred, identify what was missing, make multiple calls to 
investment providers, and then multiple calls to JH. And it was compounded further by the 
stresses of having to cope with reduced income for some months. So, I dont believe £500 is 
a fair reflection of all the distress Mrs Z has experienced. I think £1,000 provides a fairer 
reflection, and that is what Ill be asking JH to pay here. 
Responses to my Provisional Decision
Both parties have responded, and both have indicated a willingness to accept my proposed 
outcome  albeit with some clarifications requested, which Ill address below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Response from JH
JH have asked whether the 6-month bespoke income drawdown arrangement is fixed, or 
would it be extended in the event Mrs Z made a request to transfer her pension to another 
provider which remained uncompleted before the end of that 6-month period. They also seek 
clarification as to whether they can continue to charge administration fees in that period. 
My inclusion of the six-month bespoke arrangement was intended to provide a fixed 
timeframe, giving certainty to both parties, to allow Mrs Z to decide what she wanted to do.  
But I do acknowledge that sometimes pension transfers can be subject to unforeseen delays 
 whether due to circumstances outside of everyones control, or through delays caused by 
any of the parties involved. 
Here, Mrs Z may decide to transfer her pension to a new provider and start the process well 
within that 6-month period, only for it to be held up by delays outside of her or JHs control. 
In such circumstances, it would be illogical to say the six-month bespoke arrangement must 
end, when its clear to JH and Mrs Z that a transfer away from JH is relatively imminent. But 
by the same token, it wouldnt be fair to JH to have to extend the period if Mrs Z only began 
any transfer process in, say, the last weeks of that six-month period. 
So, to provide further certainty, and fairness, to both parties on the issue of the six-month 
bespoke arrangement, Im going to ask JH to do the following:
- In the event Mrs Z decides to remain with JH, the bespoke arrangement will run for six-
months only, beginning on the date Mrs Z accepts this Final Decision (FD).
- If Mrs Z decides to transfer her pension to another provider, the same six-month 
bespoke period applies. But it can be extended, if necessary, to the date on which any 
transfer completes  but only if Mrs Z made a transfer application to a new provider 
within three months of the date she accepts this Decision. I say three months because, 
based on experience, Id expect a straightforward in-specie transfer of Mrs Zs 
investments to be completed well within a three-month timeframe  and I think three 
months provides a reasonable amount of time for any unforeseen delays.
On the subject of fees, JH are permitted to charge their usual fund management fees during 
the post-FD period, in line with their terms and conditions  but this is not something I need 
to make a finding of in this Decision. JH are continuing to provide a service and are entitled 
to be paid for that. 
But I reiterate no fees are to be charged in connection with any in-specie transfer to another 
provider that Mrs Z may choose to make  as long as that transfer request commenced 
within the above six-month bespoke period. If Mrs Z makes a request to transfer her 
pension to another provider after the six-month period, JH will be entitled to charge their 
appropriate fees under the terms of their agreement with Mrs Z.
Response from Mrs Z
Mrs Z is worried that JH will continue to make mistakes after my FD is issued, and wonders 
whether she can retain our involvement for a further six-month period to help resolve any post-FD issues. She explains, having recently spoken to the investment companies that had 
continued to cause problems with incorrectly referenced remittance notifications, these 
companies have now assured her theyve rectified these problems  so in theory any further 
issues would not be their fault. 
Our investigator has since been explained to Mrs Z our (my) involvement in her complaint 
will essentially cease as soon as this FD is issued. An FD marks the end of our process, and 
neither I or our investigator can revisit the complaint or add anything further to what Ive said 
in my Decision. My FD, if accepted by Mrs Z, places a legal obligation on JH to comply with 
what Ive asked it to do. And if Mrs Z feels JH hasnt complied, it remains open for her to 
consider enforcing my FD via other legal routes  but the Ombudsman Service can play no 
part in any such actions, or give any advice.   
Mrs Z asks if she could have the name and telephone number of someone at JH who can 
advise her about how much tax and fees she needs to allow for when calculating how much 
she can ask to be paid each month. She also separately asks for a named contact to advise 
her on what fees and charges shell incur if she remains with JH. 
However, Ive already explained in my PD I dont think JH needs to provide details for a 
named contact (with direct phone contact details) here, and I think its fair that reasoning 
applies in relation to these requests too, and for essentially the same reasons. Thats not to 
say if Mrs Z decides to discuss a new arrangement with JH, involving a conversation about 
fees, it wont be dealt with by a different department that can provide a named contact. But 
that doesnt mean I can compel JH to provide one as part of a legally binding/enforceable 
Decision - so I wont compel JH to provide such contact details here. 
But I did say JH should provide the single point of contact, as defined above in my PD, and 
that remains. And to maintain consistency, the provision of this contact should be extended 
beyond six months (if necessary) for the same specific reason set out above  if Mrs Z has 
commenced a transfer process within three months of the date she accepts this Decision.   
Mrs Z is also concerned  assuming she stays with JH, and settles on a fixed monthly 
payment amount moving forward - they may sell some of her shares to cover any dividend 
shortfalls in any given month that would otherwise prevent that payment being made. She 
asks if I can compel JH not to sell any shares in this way. Im afraid the answer to this is No. 
If Mrs Z does choose to remain with JH, then  as mentioned in my PD  that arrangement 
will need to continue having regard to the terms and conditions of Mrs Zs SIPP. And those 
terms permit JH to realise any investments, as necessary, in the event there is insufficient 
cash available in the SIPP bank account to either pay Mrs Z her monthly pension, or cover 
any fees or other SIPP-management related expenditure. These are fairly standard SIPP 
management terms, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to compel JH to disregard 
these in any future dealings with Mrs Z. I acknowledge the uncertainty this may cause Mrs Z, 
but finding a solution to this potential issue  should she remain with JH  is a task that must 
fall on her (she mentions she may seek professional financial advice), rather than JH 
departing from the terms of their agreement with her. Mrs Z also remains adamant that JH have not refunded one of the fees, dated 27 May 2020 
for £189.60. I agree this has not been refunded, but I havent asked JH to refund it either. In 
my PD, I referred to fee refunds of just under £1,900. For extra clarity, Ill break that amount 
down here  invoices in the sum of £48, £194.40 and £796.80, dated between 5 January 
and 17 March 2021, were refunded on 17 June 2021. A further invoice dated 18 June 2021 
for £858 was refunded on 27 October 2021  total fees refunded of £1,897.20. These 
represented what I thought was a fair amount for JH to refund in the circumstances of this 
complaint, and so I wont be asking JH to refund the earlier 27 May 2020 fees of £189.60.
Putting things right
To summarise what Ive said above  in my PD, as well as my further comments  and in 
addition to the fees JH have already refunded, its my final decision that JH must do the 
following:
- Pay Mrs Z £400 compensation for the late payment of income in the period
- Pay Mrs Z £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience
- JH must continue to provide Mrs Z with the existing bespoke income drawdown 
arrangements for a six-month period - beginning from the date she accepts this Final  
Decision
- This six-month bespoke income drawdown period can be extended only if Mrs Z has 
made an application to transfer her SIPP to a new provider within three months from 
the date she accepts this Final Decision, in which case it must remain in place until 
the transfer to another provider is completed. 
- JH will not charge any transfer or admin fees in the event Mrs Z decides to move her 
investments to a different SIPP provider  providing Mrs Z has made an application 
to transfer to her new provider within six months of accepting this Final Decision
- JH must provide Mrs Z with a single point of contact, as set out in my PD and 
repeated above, for the same six-month period  which can be extended if necessary 
only if Mrs Z made an application to transfer her pension to another provider within 
three months of the date she accepted this Final Decision, in which case it must 
remain in place until the transfer to another provider is completed. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Zs complaint against IPS Pensions Ltd, and require them to pay the 
compensation amounts, and undertake the various tasks, as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman