DRN-1586084
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the customer service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest), when requesting a replacement debit card for his Instant Saver Account; ending 
in 7859. 
What happened
Mr J says that his debit card for his Instant Saver Account was damaged, so in January 2020 
he contacted NatWest to request a new one. Mr J says that on two occasions he called and 
requested a new card, but he never received a replacement. Mr J subsequently found out 
that NatWest wouldnt issue a new card to him because they had made the decision not to 
offer debit cards with these savings accounts. 
In January 2020, NatWest wrote to Mr J saying that in 2019 they had written to existing 
account holders to inform them that, effective from October 2019, new cards wouldnt be 
reissued on the type of saving account Mr J had. NatWest acknowledged that they couldve 
been clearer when he contacted them to ask for a new card, and because of this they paid 
him £60 for any distress or inconvenience caused. They went on to explain that moving 
forward Mr J can transfer the funds via telephone banking, and then withdraw cash from his 
current account. Also, during a call with Mr J, NatWest provided other options on how Mr J 
can go about getting access to his funds.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. The investigator thought the 
£60 compensation paid to Mr J was fair and reasonable.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator, so this matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
NatWest said theyve made a commercial decision to stop producing debit cards for the type 
of saving account Mr J has. They say the aim of this decision was to simplify and make it 
easier for customers to differentiate between current accounts and savings accounts.  
NatWest was able to make a commercial decision whether to offer or continue to offer 
certain banking facilities, provided they did so fairly and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. The terms and conditions say there must be a valid reason and enough 
notice given. I think a commercial decision to simplify and make it easier for customers to 
differentiate between current accounts and savings accounts is one such valid reason. 
Also, Ive been provided with a template letter that NatWest says was sent to all savings 
customers from July 2019 onwards. This letter explained, that from 16 October 2019, 
NatWest wouldnt be reissuing cards on these savings accounts, and what other options are 
available in accessing funds in those accounts. I can see that NatWest had the correct 
address for Mr J, and it has provided evidence that this type of letter had been dispatched in 
July 2019. So, I think most likely this type of letter was sent to Mr J and gave him enough 
notice of the change. Considering all the circumstances, I dont think NatWest acted 
unreasonably in respect of the decision not to reissue Mr J with a replacement card for his 
Instant Saver Account.  
Ive also thought about, what Mr J has said about the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused him. And I think NatWest, in phone calls with Mr J, couldve been clearer in 
explaining and providing the correct information - that it wouldnt be possible for a card to be 
reissued. Since then, they have explained other options that are available to Mr J regarding 
having access to the funds in that account. They also paid him £60 compensation. So, taking 
all the circumstances into consideration, including the compensation paid to Mr J, I think 
what NatWest has done is fair and reasonable. 
Whilst I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr J, Im not asking 
NatWest to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman