DRN-3452955
The complaint
Mr V complains Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) wrongly advised to transfer his 
pension into a SIPP and that he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr V has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr V himself.
I issued an earlier provisional decision and for clarity I repeat it here.
Mr V opened a Self-Invested Personal Pension account with HSDL on 7 March 2011. He 
says he believes he was wrongly advised and has been financially impacted as a result.
HSDL issued its final response on 16 March 2020 and didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. It says 
it acted on an execution only basis. It says there have been no transactions on the account 
since it was opened, and the account was closed in January 2020 as the account was empty 
and dormant.
Mr V was unhappy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr V, he asked HSDL for the terms and condition of the 
account but didnt feel they had been forthcoming. In the absence of this information he said 
he couldnt be sure any advice given was sound and so he upheld the complaint.
HSDL didnt agree. It said it had provided the terms and conditions of the account which 
clearly indicated this account was only available on an execution only basis and so it asked 
for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings I explained Id reached a different conclusion to that of our 
investigator and in the interest of fairness I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties 
the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision.
I explained in deciding this complaint Ive considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr V and by HSDL.
I said I could see HSDL provided the terms and conditions of the account opened by Mr V in 
an email dated 19 June 2020. I referred specifically to Section 4.4 which says:
The service is an execution only service. This means that we will execute your orders in 
accordance with these terms and conditions and we will not provide you with any investment 
advice or discretionary management in relation to the assets. Any investment decisions will 
be your own. We are not required to assess the appropriateness or suitability of our service 
for you and the protection afforded by the FCA rules on assessing the suitability or 
appropriateness does not apply to this service. However, we will assess appropriateness if 
you wish to purchase a complex instrument.
And section 4.5 reads:
If you are in any doubt about using the service and making your own investment decision, 
we recommend you seek advice from a suitably qualified financial adviser.
Mr V said HSDL gave him advice, but that is disputed by HSDL and it has provided the 
terms and conditions, an extract of which is detailed on this decision. There is no 
documentary evidence at all to show that it did give any advice. Indeed, on the contrary, the 
documentary evidence showed that HSDL provided an execution-only service. The terms of 
its agreement expressly excluded any advice being provided.
I explained The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II and Financial Advice Market 
Review II did introduce some new obligations on businesses when transacting on an 
execution-only basis in complex products. These require, amongst other things, that a 
business check a consumers knowledge, experience and understanding of the risks 
involved. But I pointed out these obligations only arose from January 2018 and so were not 
applicable in 2011 and so are not relevant here.
I said Id not seen anything to suggest that HSDL did anything wrong and so it would not be 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied that it gave any advice 
and Im not satisfied that it had any obligation to do more than it did in terms of due 
diligence. So far as I can see, based on the information available, this was an execution-only 
transaction.
I said if Mr V can provide any evidence to the contrary, I will of course consider any 
submission he makes before issuing my final decision but as it stood, I was not minded to 
uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties were offered the opportunity to provide any additional information they wished 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. The deadline for submissions was 27 April 
2022.
As I have received no further representation from either party, it follows I have reached the 
same conclusion as that of my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman