DRN-3991631
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) lent to her irresponsibly and did 
nothing to support her despite informing it of her gambling problems and other 
vulnerabilities. 
What happened
Mrs B held an account with Santander with an overdraft facility.
Mrs B got in contact with Santander in August 2021 seeking support with her overdraft 
facility and at the same time disclosed that her father had a terminal illness which had fuelled 
her gambling addiction and asked for help. Mrs B advised that she was already registered on 
various gambling help and blocking sites but wanted assistance to block international 
transactions but was told this couldnt be done with the type of debit card she had. 
Santander sent Mrs B a new card and advised Mrs B in November 2021 that transactions 
could be blocked on this type of card online. Santanders internal screenshots show that Mrs 
B was able to successfully use this tool on a number of occasions. Santander also provided 
Mrs B with information about external organisations that were available to assist and support 
her.
In April 2022 Mrs B advised Santander via chat that the blocks she had activated did not 
block international payments for gambling and could be switched off instantly. Mrs B asked 
whether Santander could block all transactions except the ones she says are regular bills or 
supermarkets. Santander explained it could, but that it would need each company name and 
the date each last debited and the amount. Mrs B responded that that would take some time 
and queried whether there was an easier way which there wasnt. Mrs B was given a 
number to call if the gambling block app wasnt suitable.
Mrs B complained to Santander about this and its irresponsible lending. Santander received 
an email on 22 September 2022 from Mrs B asking whether Santander could freeze her card 
and Santander actioned this a few days later on 27 September. This meant Mrs B was no 
longer able to use her card for any payments and wasnt able to lift the block herself without 
a request being referred to its media and executive team.
Santander upheld Mrs Bs complaint regarding the continued lending and refunded all 
overdraft fees and charges from July 2018. Mrs B was satisfied with this outcome but 
doesnt think that the other parts of her complaint were dealt with properly especially 
regarding its failure to support her when she reached out and informed it of her 
vulnerabilities and so brought her complaint to this service. 
She says the tools Santander provided her with (the gambling transaction blocking) were 
inadequate and wants a refund of foreign transaction fees relating to gambling payments 
from when she made Santander aware she was struggling. She says Santander should have 
taken action sooner and removed the overdraft facility and placed a card block on all 
transactions sooner.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that what 
Santander had already done to put things right was in-line with what wed recommend and 
didnt think Santander should do anything more.
Mrs B disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mrs B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And as Mrs B has 
made it clear that she is satisfied with the outcome regarding the irresponsible lending 
element of her complaint, the focus of my decision will be on the support Santander provided 
Mrs B and whether that was fair and reasonable given all the circumstances.
Having considered everything provided, I think it was. 
Initially when Mrs B contacted Santander in August 2021 it wasnt able to provide Mrs B with 
a transaction blocking tool due to the type of debit card she had. But at this point Mrs B had 
explained to Santander that shed already registered on various gambling help and blocking 
sites but wanted help with blocking international transactions. Unfortunately, this isnt 
something Santander had the ability to do. But Santander did provide her with a new type of 
debit card that had the capacity to block other gambling transactions and signposted her to 
external organisations that that could help her.  
I understand Mrs B is unhappy that she was able to switch off the blocks she had activated 
on her account and that they were limited when it came to international payments. But 
nothing is fool proof and other banks may well have better systems for blocking transactions, 
but it is not for me to tell Santander how to run its systems or what technology it should have 
in place. 
I appreciate Mrs B in retrospect thinks because Santander had the ability to freeze her card 
and stop all transactions it should have done this sooner. But that wouldve left Mrs B without 
access to any funds and that was not what she asked for and I dont think that wouldve 
been a proportionate response to her initial request.
I sympathise with Mrs B and all her struggles, and I applaud her for seeking help. In 
situations such as Mrs Bs Id expect Santander if it had a tool to assist her in controlling her 
spending it would provide her with this. Santander did just that. Ultimately the block does 
what it is meant to do  act as a deterrent and to assist her in manging her money by adding 
an extra step when making gambling transactions and making her think about what she is 
doing. I dont think it would be fair to expect Santander to make those decisions for her or 
deny her the ability to transact at all. And when Mrs B did specifically ask Santander if it was 
possible for her card to be frozen, it did this within three working days which I think is 
reasonable.
Furthermore, Santander is a business that provides financial services  it is not a counselling 
service. So, while I would expect it and its staff if they became aware of specific needs of a 
customer outside of financial services, to be able to provide information about where to go to 
seek help or assistance  as Santander did here. I wouldnt expect it to be able to provide 
that specialist help itself. Mrs B says Santander should have been reviewing her account activity and removed or 
reduced her overdraft when shed informed it about her gambling addiction in late 2021 and 
that Santander was wrong to continue to provide her with funds in the knowledge that it 
would be spent on gambling. And I agree. But this is the part of Mrs Bs complaint that 
Santander upheld  that the continued lending was unsustainable - and that is why it 
refunded all overdraft fees and charges dating back to July 2018  which is in-line with what 
Id expect.
Mrs B wants to be refunded for all foreign transaction fees and gambling payments from the 
date she asked her card to be blocked. But as I stated above when Mrs B queried whether 
her card could be frozen Santander did this within what I consider a reasonable period of 
time. And where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it 
should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  not to refund 
the money the customer has had the use of. And in Mrs Bs case Santander have refunded 
fees from well before she notified it of her difficulties.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable 
to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ive considered all Mrs B has said about this, but I dont think she has given me a reason for 
departing from our normal approach to putting things right. What Mrs B has given me is a 
reason for upholding her complaint regarding the continued lending. And not being able to 
easily block all gambling transactions internationally or otherwise, is not a mistake on 
Santanders part. It simply wasnt possible. So Im not persuaded further compensation is 
warranted or will make a material difference to Mrs Bs circumstances.
So overall and having considered everything I think where Santander has made mistakes, it 
has put things right for Mrs B in a way that I think is fair and reasonable and I do not think 
further compensation is warranted.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what Santander UK Plc has already one to put 
things right for Mrs B is a fair and reasonable outcome and Im not going to ask it to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman