DRN-2927974
The complaint
Mr S complains that it was unreasonable for Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) to 
accept him as guarantor for a loan taken out by his father.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but I provide an extract from it below. I said;
Mr S was accepted by Bamboo as guarantor for a loan taken by his father in 2018. 
His father borrowed £4,000 in May 2018. The loan was repayable in monthly 
instalments over a period of five years.
Mr S signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That 
meant that, should his father be unable or unwilling to make the required 
repayments, Bamboo could seek repayment from Mr S.
In this decision I will not be considering whether it was reasonable for Bamboo to 
give the loan to Mr Ss father. That is a matter between Mr Ss father and the lender. 
I will only be considering whether it was reasonable for Bamboo to accept Mr S as 
guarantor for the loan.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed to him acting as 
guarantor on the loan. It asked him for details of his income, and Mr S also provided 
information about his housing costs and his other normal expenditure. And Bamboo 
checked Mr Ss credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and 
how he was managing his other credit.
The credit check results that Bamboo received showed that Mr S was managing his 
credit well. His repayments on a mortgage and another loan had all been made on 
time. And generally Mr S cleared his credit card balance each month. Mr S himself 
has commented on his credit record  he said that prior to becoming the guarantor 
on this loan his credit history was rated as excellent without blemish. So I dont 
think Bamboo should have had any concerns about Mr Ss finances from the results 
that it received from the credit check.
Mr S declared that he earned, on average, £1,818 each month although his income 
was actually paid weekly. He said that he was responsible for paying the mortgage 
costs of £421 and in total, including the mortgage payment, his monthly expenditure 
totalled around £900. So that would mean he had a good level of disposable income 
that he could use to make the loan repayments of £157.67 if he was required to do 
so.
Overall I think that the checks Bamboo did were proportionate. And the results of 
those checks didnt show any indications that Mr S wouldnt be able to afford to repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner if he was required to do so.
Our investigator concluded that Mr Ss finances werent as healthy as Bamboos 
checks suggested. From looking at Mr Ss bank statements I can see that his normal 
expenditure appears to have been higher than he declared to Bamboo. But his bank 
account was managed well. He generally maintained the account in credit, and apart 
for a short period when Mr S appears to have been abroad, there is no evidence of 
returned payments.
However, I dont think Bamboo had any reason to ask Mr S for copies of those bank 
statements  I think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on the information Mr S 
provided, and the results of its credit check..
As I explained earlier, it isnt appropriate for me to consider the relationship between 
Bamboo and Mr Ss father in this decision. I have thought about what Mr S says 
about how he was persuaded, or as he says obligated, to act as guarantor. But 
I have listened to the telephone calls that Mr S had with Bamboo, and cannot 
reasonably say that the lender should have concluded Mr S was anything other than 
a willing guarantor.
I appreciate how disappointing this decision will be for Mr S. But I currently think the 
checks the lender did were proportionate. And I dont think those checks gave any 
indication that Mr S wouldnt be able to make the repayments on the loan if he were 
required to do so as the guarantor.
I invited both Mr S and Bamboo to provide me with any further evidence or comments on my 
provisional decision. Bamboo has said that it is happy with my provisional decision and that 
it doesnt have any further comments. Mr S has provided me with his response. Although 
I am only summarising here what Mr S has said, I want to reassure him that I have read, and 
carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr S says that his main complaint is that he is only in this position because of Bamboos 
decision to lend to his father. He accepts that his finances were in a good state at the time 
he agreed to act as guarantor. But he explains that changes in his income now mean that he 
is facing financial hardship.
He says that other lenders also provided loans to his father, meaning that other guarantors 
are facing the same problems as him. He thinks it unacceptable for lenders such as Bamboo 
to keep offering loans to his father as long as a guarantor is in place. He says he had no 
idea of the financial problems faced by his father when he took the loan. But he thinks that 
those problems would have been apparent to Bamboo, and that is why it asked for the loan 
to be guaranteed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only express my sympathy for the position in which Mr S now finds himself. It is clear 
that he was misled by his father and following the understandable breakdown of their 
relationship has been left with the liability for a significant debt. But in deciding this 
complaint, I am not considering what happened between Mr S and his father, or between 
Bamboo and Mr Ss father. 
Here, it is only appropriate for me to consider what happened between Mr S and Bamboo 
when he agreed to become a guarantor. Bamboo needed to ensure that Mr S would be able 
to repay the loan if needed. And Mr S, in his response to my provisional decision, has said that his finances were in a good state at that time. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
the lender to conclude that Mr S would be able to meet the repayments if his father was 
unable to do so.
It isnt appropriate for me to review the information on which Bamboo based its decision to 
lend to Mr Ss father. Sadly I think it fell to Mr S to make his own assessment, when agreeing 
to guarantee the loan, of his fathers ability to repay. It seems clear his decision was based 
on information from his father that he now knows to be untrue. It might be that Bamboo was 
given similar information and its checks failed to identify any problems. But without being 
able to examine those checks I cannot reach a reasonable conclusion on why Bamboo 
asked for a guarantor on the loan. But, it is clear in the regulations that a guarantor isnt a 
substitute for appropriate checks on a borrower  so I cannot conclude that Bamboo offered 
the loan to Mr Ss father, expecting that it would be the guarantor that needed to make the 
repayments. 
I know Mr S will remain disappointed with my decision. He has been let down by his father  
but I dont think that is the fault of Bamboo. I think that the checks Bamboo did on Mr S were 
proportionate. And I dont think those checks gave any indication that he wouldnt be able to 
make the repayments on the loan if he were required to do so as the guarantor.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman