DRN-4049809
The complaint
Mr I has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy and the poor service he received. 
What happened
Mr I made a claim under his home insurance policy and wasnt happy about the amount of 
time it took Admiral to deal with the claim and the amount of time he had to invest in 
advancing the claim. So, he complained to Admiral about this. 
Admiral acknowledged its service was poor and that it delayed dealing with Mr Is claim 
unnecessarily and offered compensation. This complaint relates to two final response letters 
(FRL) Admiral sent dated 10 May and 13 July 2022 in which it offered £100 and £125 
respectively by way of compensation. But as Mr I still wasnt happy he complained to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and thought Admiral should increase the level of 
compensation by a further £100. Admiral didnt agree, it went on to outline that it had 
provided some more compensation in relation to a further complaint so it didnt think the 
compensation level should be increased.
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been referred to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Admiral and Mr I who wanted more compensation, but Ill explain why.
As outlined above this complaint will just focus on the delay and poor service that was dealt 
with by Admiral in its FRLs of 10 May and 13 July. And it is good to see that Admiral have 
taken responsibility for the delay and poor service it provided in offering £225 in relation to 
these complaints and the points raised. 
However, I agree with our Investigator that the level of compensation should be increased. I 
say this as I dont think the compensation level goes far enough or fully takes account of all 
the issues Mr I raised. For example, Mr I outlined that the delay in repairing his bathroom 
meant he had to undertake ongoing temporary repairs in order to keep the leak in check 
while Admiral delayed settling the claim. And I agree that when his claim and complaint was 
escalated to a manager, and Mr I was told he would have meaningful advancement of his 
claim within a few days, it must have been additionally stressful to not get contact and to 
then be told the manager had moved jobs less than a week after contact with Mr I.
Given this I think its fair, in the particular circumstances of this case, for the compensation to 
be increased by a further £100. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay an additional £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman