DRN-2125967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is asking them 
to pay a shortfall debt following the sale of their property after they handed back the keys. To 
settle the complaint they want the debt written off and for Halifax to stop contacting them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F owned a property which was mortgaged to Halifax. Unfortunately they fell into 
financial difficulty and on 3 January 2012 handed the property back to Halifax. It was sold on 
16 March 2012.
Mr and Mrs F say that it was only on 30 May 2018 that they first heard from Halifaxs debt 
recovery agents claiming there was a shortfall debt of about £16,400. They complained to 
Halifax, saying that the bank was out of time for contacting them, as it had six years from the 
date of the sale to do so.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint and so it was brought to us where an investigator looked 
at it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted that Halifaxs solicitors had 
written to Mr and Mrs F sending four letters each between 2013 and 2014. Given this, the 
investigator was satisfied Halifax was not out of time to pursue the debt.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators findings. They say theyd never seen those 
letters until the investigator provided copies of them. They say they are not genuine as they 
are not on any official letterhead and were only created on 27 July 2020.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The position in relation to recovery of mortgage shortfalls is covered in the code of practice 
issued by UK Finance (formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders), which says:
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, a lender legally has 12 years in which to 
contact the borrower to begin the process of obtaining repayment of shortfall debt; 
this period is usually 5 years in Scotland...
In addition, from 11 February 2000, lenders  have agreed voluntarily that they will 
begin all recovery action for the shortfall within the first six years following the sale of 
a property in possession
The six year limit only refers to beginning recovery action and does not affect a 
lenders ability to recover the shortfall debt over a longer period.
It is also part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (MCOB), which says:
(1) If the decision is made to recover the sale shortfall, the firm must ensure that the
customer is notified of this intention.
(2) The notification referred to in (1) must take place within five years of the date of 
the sale (if the regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan is subject to 
Scottish law) or within six years (in all other cases).
Mr and Mrs Fs property was in England.
First, Ive considered the issue about whether or not Mr and Mrs F heard anything about the 
shortfall debt before Halifaxs agents 30 May 2018 letter. Mr and Mrs F dont accept 
Halifaxs solicitors wrote to them in 2013 and 2014 and argue that those letters have recently 
been created to support Halifaxs position. Halifax says the letters have been retrieved from 
the solicitors digital records and were created at the time they were acting for Halifax.
Where evidence conflicts, I make my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened, taking all the available evidence into account. I find its more likely than not that 
the solicitors did write to Mr and Mrs F four times each on 1 October 2013, 31 October 2013, 
2 December 2013 and 2 June 2014. The letters were correctly addressed. If they had been 
returned as undelivered, I would have expected to find some record of this. In the absence 
of any such evidence, I conclude that the letters were correctly delivered.
The letters clearly reference that this is a shortfall debt arising from the sale of the property, 
and that Halifax is seeking to recover it. The full amount of the debt is specified. In the 
circumstances, I find that Halifax (through its solicitors) did contact Mr and Mrs F about the 
shortfall debt within six years of the date of the sale of the property.
I note that Mr and Mrs F say they believe the solicitors letters are forged. But having looked 
carefully at these, I consider this is unlikely. The letters were retrieved from records held on 
an internal system, so there is nothing sinister in them showing the date they were recovered 
from the system. The dates the letters were sent are clearly shown. 
Ive also considered the period under which a lender must start to take legal action to 
recover a shortfall. A shortfall debt isnt automatically written off when a property is sold in 
possession. Section 20 (1) of the Limitation Act 1980 sets out that a lender has 12 years to 
use court action to make a borrower pay a shortfall from a mortgage. 
That 12 years starts from the date the property is sold, not the date of possession. Thats 
because an accurate figure for the shortfall cant be known until the sale has definitely gone 
through. The court action for the shortfall would be separate from the possession 
proceedings. But it doesnt have to be an actual court application, as a form of pre-action 
would be sufficient  for example notification that borrowers need to pay or the lender would 
start court proceedings.
Its important to note that the rules relate to when a lender must start these processes. If 
borrowers dont respond or do anything until after the timescales have expired, it doesnt 
mean that debt will be cancelled, provided the lender has started the processes in time. 
After taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Halifax is not out of time to recover the 
shortfall debt from Mr and Mrs F. 
Mr and Mrs F are, of course, free to reject my decision, if they disagree with it. Nothing in 
this decision precludes Mr and Mrs F arguing in any court proceedings that Halifax is out of time to recover the debt. I would suggest Mr and Mrs F take legal advice from a qualified 
solicitor in relation to any court proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman