DRN-4205098
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) rejected his claim against it under Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
What happened
Mr C purchased a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014 and financed it 
through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The system was subsequently 
installed. Mr C alleges that the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding, which they werent. He says this caused his relationship with BPF to be unfair.
BPF didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or that its relationship with 
him was unfair. 
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
BPF didnt agree saying that it had seen one other complaint from this supplier where the 
consumer was given a quotation document which clearly set out the estimated benefit, but 
Mr C had not provided a copy of this. BPF felt that the cost was clearly set out in the credit 
agreement, and Mr C would have been given a quotation document. So BPF thought that 
the evidence suggested it was unlikely the system was misrepresented to Mr C in the way 
he was now asserting. BPF added that this particular supplier had not been identified as a 
supplier with systemic sales issues when it carried out a review of its suppliers. 
Our adjudicator explained that he had not seen such a quote in this particular case and so 
his view remained unchanged. BPF reiterated its earlier points. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint and as 
neither party has disputed this, I dont need to set this out again in this decision. 
BPF is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case and Ill explain why. 
When Mr C responded to our adjudicators questions regarding what he could recall from the 
sale, Mr C said he wanted to buy the system to save money as well as help the environment. 
He says he was assured the system would be self-funding due to the benefits received from 
the system. He added the supplier did write down some figures, but he did not leave the 
document behind. I find Mr Cs testimony to be reliable and persuasive as his testimony has 
been clear and consistent throughout.
Ive looked at the documents Mr C has retained and submitted. There is a purchase order 
which sets out the cash price of £9,961 and the SAP generation figure of 3260 kWh. But this 
doesnt have the estimated benefits in financial terms. Mr C also signed a credit agreement 
which set out his costs clearly.
But I havent seen a single document that sets out the estimated benefit in financial terms 
that made it clear the system wouldnt be self-funding. 
I have considered the sample document BPF has referred to from the one other case it has 
received against this supplier. And it did set out the estimated benefit on that case as well as 
the cash price. But I would remind BPF that each case is decided on the individual merits of 
that case. And a quotation document being provided in one case is not independently strong 
evidence of a suppliers overall sales practices. Theres no evidence that such a document 
was likely provided in this case, or that it was completed correctly or what figures might have 
been given to Mr C. 
I appreciate the point BPF is trying to make, and we have seen other suppliers where 
estimated returns or quotation documents have been completed correctly and provided on 
most of their sales. This is a good indicator of the overall sales practice of that supplier which 
in some cases holds weight. But while considering how much weight to put on the sample 
document BPF has supplied, I have to bear in mind that BPF havent been able to provide a 
quotation document in this case, that Mr C says he wasnt left with any such document (and 
he cant provide what he doesnt have) and that BPF have only seen that document in one 
other case. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen in this particular case, like our adjudicator, Im still of the 
view the evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was 
not given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding 
and would equate to an additional cost for him. 
As I think the system has been misrepresented to Mr C as self-funding and he bought the 
system on that basis. I think a court could likely conclude there existed an unfair relationship 
under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. As Mr C has likely lost out because of 
what the supplier did wrong, I think BPF should put things right. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for BPF to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then BPF needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr C by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require BPF to 
restructure Mr Cs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr C has settled the loan, BPF should pay him the difference between what he paid in total 
and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
BPF, and BPF should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the BPF loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted BPF that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that BPF should pay 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 Asma Begum
Ombudsman