DRN-4281778
The complaint
Ms K complained that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (Equiniti) unreasonably refused to 
send her share sale proceeds by electronic fund transfer (eft) when she was unable to bank 
the cheque it issued her.
To put things right, Ms K wants Equiniti to cancel the cheque and pay her by way of an eft. 
Failing that, she wants Equiniti to issue a cheque payable to a close relative who can 
process the cheque through a UK bank account and transfer the money to her.
What happened
Ms Ks complaint relates to the payment method used by Equiniti after it dealt with the sale 
of her shares through its Postal Share Dealing (PSD) service.
In line with the terms of the PSD service, Equiniti issued a cheque payable to Ms K for the 
sale proceeds. But since Ms K lives overseas and doesnt have a UK bank account, and her 
overseas bank cant accept a UK bank cheque, she has been unable to access her money.  
There was an exchange of emails and phone calls between Equiniti and Ms K about this 
issue. Equiniti said one of its customer care handlers had incorrectly told Ms K it could issue 
her sales proceeds by way of a BACS transfer (this is shorthand for Bankers Automated 
Clearing System and its a way to move money between accounts). Equiniti explained it 
didnt provide a service to transfer funds to Ms Ks country of residence because it was 
unable to verify accounts in that country. To put things right for Ms K, Equiniti offered to 
repurchase the shares. 
Our investigator didnt feel able to uphold Ms Ks complaint on the basis that we wouldnt 
expect Equiniti to go against its terms and conditions and we arent in a position to ask a 
business to change its processes. 
Equiniti didnt respond to the investigators view. Ms K disagreed with the investigators 
assessment. She mainly said:
all companies can do an eft
she does not want to hold the shares because the small amounts involved have 
proved problematic so the most sensible thing was for her to sell them  
she considers that Equiniti could help her but will not do so because they are 
totally hide bound.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
My focus is on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it 
simply reflects the informal nature of our Service as a free alternative to the courts. I can tell 
Equiniti to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied that it did 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Ms K suffering some 
financial loss and/or other detriment. So Ive kept this in mind when thinking about Ms Ks 
complaint.
The crux of the matter seems to me to be whether Equiniti has acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Ms K, given the difficulties she is facing obtaining the proceeds from the sale of her 
shares. 
I've taken into account that Equiniti has said that Ms K shouldnt have received the mailing it 
sent, offering registered shareholders the chance to sell shares no longer required through 
the special PSD service it offered. Equiniti doesnt offer any dealing facilities for 
shareholders that reside outside the UK or the European Economic Area.
But Ms K was automatically included in the mailshot because her registered address was a 
UK address  even though she is resident overseas. This meant she received information 
about the PSD service  even though it wasnt a service that was suitable for shareholders 
not resident in the UK. If Ms K had not received this mailing in the first place, she wouldnt 
have participated in the PSD scheme and the problems she is now dealing with wouldnt be 
an issue for her. But had Ms Ks home address been properly registered, which it was her 
responsibility to do, then she would not have received the mailing. So I think it's fair to say 
that at that stage, Equiniti couldnt have known that the mailshot shouldnt have gone to 
Ms K because it reasonably thought she would be living at her registered address and had 
no good reason to think she was living overseas. 
However, when Ms K contacted Equiniti about the difficulties of getting a wet signed 
application back to Equiniti, I think it should have been prompted at that point to query 
whether Ms K was still resident in the UK. If Equiniti had done that, it should have realised 
that Ms K was permanently resident overseas and so its special offer PSD service wasnt 
suitable for her. Equiniti has acknowledged that allowing Ms K to sell her shares this way 
was a mistake. I find that this admitted service failing on Equinitis part is a good enough 
reason for me to uphold her complaint. So I need to consider what Equiniti should do to put 
things right for Ms K.
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach to redress. Briefly, I need to decide what the impact on Ms K has been as a result 
of Equiniti making an error. When thinking about what redress is fair and reasonable, its 
important to keep in mind that the ombudsman approach is to try to put Ms K back, as 
closely as its reasonably possible to do, into the position she wouldve been in but for 
Equinitis mistake.  
Equiniti has offered to correct the position by repurchasing the shares  an offer which Ms K 
declined. I am satisfied that, at least in terms of her shareholding, this would restore Ms K to 
the position she was in before she used the PSD service, so she could then reconsider other 
options. Equiniti has said it should have told Ms K that she could transfer the shares to a 
local broker where she now lives or even transfer them to a trusted family member or friend 
in the UK, with a view to them selling the shares for her  although in that case, I think all 
parties involved in the transaction might benefit from seeking advice as this arrangement 
could have tax or other implications for those concerned.  
I appreciate that Ms K feels strongly that Equiniti should simply be more flexible and do what 
it takes to get her money to her. But I cant fairly say that Equiniti is obliged to send payment 
in the way Ms K would prefer by eft. Equinitis terms and conditions clearly stipulate that sales proceeds can only be issued via cheque sent to the registered address on the holding 
 and thats what happened here. Nonetheless, just because Equiniti acted in line with its 
terms and conditions doesnt mean it cant fairly and reasonably be expected to do more and 
Ive considered whether it should explore some other payment methods in this case. 
I dont think however there are any reasonable alternatives available here. To be clear, a 
BACS transfer isnt an option because that only allows money to move between UK 
accounts. And so far as transferring money by eft is concerned, in Ms Ks case, Equiniti cant 
provide a service to transfer funds to the country where she now resides because Equiniti 
has no means of verifying accounts in that country. The processes it has in place and the 
systems it relies on to check identity and verify accounts use UK based information  so 
Equiniti cant carry out the necessary checks it needs to do for someone in Ms Ks position 
who isnt resident in the UK and doesnt have a UK bank account. 
Issuing a cheque payable to someone else for money owed to Ms K isnt something that 
Equiniti is allowed to do. 
I understand why Ms K believes that Equiniti should be more flexible in its requirements but 
how financial businesses choose to operate and the services they offer are matters that 
come under the oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Its not 
part of my remit to tell Equiniti it should change its processes.  
Ms K is looking to Equiniti to provide a solution for her. But if Ms K doesnt want to accept 
Equinitis offer to buy back the shares, I think the onus is on Ms K to explore and evaluate 
what other options are open to her and she will want to think about whether these are cost 
effective solutions for her. I find that Equiniti has done everything I think its fair to expect it to 
have done in terms of suggesting ways around the problem she faces encashing the cheque 
for her sale proceeds.  
However, I agree that Ms K was entitled to expect a better level of service from Equiniti than 
she experienced when she was wrongly led to think that a BACS payment would be the 
solution to her problem. I've carefully listened to the call recordings of discussions Ms K had 
with Equiniti and its clear to me just how frustrating Ms K found the situation. Ms K put 
things this way in her complaint to us: I did not realise the nightmare this would cause. 
Whilst I accept that payment by BACS was never a possibility here, Equiniti wrongly led 
Ms K to think otherwise. And I think this inevitably added to the overall stress this matter 
caused her  bearing in mind that the situation was avoidable had Equiniti realised sooner 
(as I think it ought to have done) that Ms K shouldnt have been invited or enabled to 
participate in the PSD service at all.     
Its my provisional view that Equiniti should pay fair compensation that reflects the impact on 
Ms K of the shortcomings in the service it provided to her on this occasion. Given everything 
I've said, and keeping in mind the value of the share proceeds at the heart of this complaint, 
I consider that an award of £75 is in line with the amount this service would award in similar 
cases and it is fair compensation for the frustration and stress suffered by Ms K in these 
particular circumstances. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms K didnt agree with my findings. She still felt shed been ignored by Equiniti when shed 
asked if her money could be paid into a UK bank account belonging to a trusted relative and 
provided authorisation for this to happen, and that Equiniti had been unhelpful when shed 
asked about doing an eft.
Equiniti confirmed it had nothing further to add and accepted the compensation award. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Ms K that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. 
Ms K hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. I appreciate that Ms K takes a different view to me. But, for all the 
reasons I explained, I still think what Ive said in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable. Putting things right
To put things right for Ms K, Equiniti should pay her £75 compensation to reflect the impact 
on her of the service failings I have identified.
Equiniti should also hold open its offer to Ms K to repurchase the shares if she changes her 
mind on this point and she asks it to do so within the next month.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Equiniti Financial Services Limited should take the steps set out 
above to put things right for Ms K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman