DRN-3086079
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the way Erudio Student Loans Limited handled her deferral 
application and terminated her account.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs A applied for a deferral on her student loan.
Erudio asked for further evidence surrounding her income, such as a full bank statement. A 
few weeks later, Mrs A called to let them know she would email the evidence later that day. 
Erudio say they didnt get the email, though they didnt tell Mrs A this at the time. The 
following month, the deferral period expired and Erudio wrote to Mrs A to say her payments 
were now due. Mrs A spoke to Erudio again and found out theyd not received her 
statement. This time, she emailed Erudio during the call to make sure they got her evidence.
Erudio then sent a default notice, telling Mrs A to pay her arrears or face a default. The next 
day, they asked Mrs A to clarify a payment received on her bank statement in order to 
process a backdated deferral. Mrs A replied querying the request to pay her arrears, 
explaining she couldnt pay them and was in the process of applying for a deferral.
Erudio told Mrs A they were not asking her to pay her arrears as they were aware of her 
circumstances. They said they just wanted to clarify the payment on her bank statement. But 
Erudio then defaulted the account, saying Mrs A hadnt cleared her arrears in time. Mrs A 
then provided an explanation for the payment to allow her deferral to go through. But Erudio 
said that since the account had already defaulted, they couldnt now defer it.
In 2020, Erudio got a county court judgement (CCJ) against Mrs A.
Mrs A complained about what happened, and asked for her loan to be treated as if it had 
been successfully deferred.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They explained 
that now there was a CCJ, a court had decided Mrs A was liable for the outstanding amount, 
and we couldnt unwind the judgement. But we could comment on how Erudio had handled 
things beforehand. They thought Erudio had communicated poorly, and should pay Mrs A 
£150 compensation.
Erudio didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, were only allowed to consider complaints about regulated 
activities  such as collecting a debt under a credit agreement. But once a business gets a 
county court judgement, its no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement. At that 
point, the agreement effectively merges into the judgement. And so instead, the business 
can only attempt to recover the money by enforcing the judgements. And enforcing 
judgements is not a regulated activity. Further, were not generally able to make decisions 
about issues that have already been dealt with in court.
Here, a court has already decided that Mrs A is liable for this debt. So in Mrs As case, I cant 
say whether Erudio were right to get the CCJ or not. And I dont have the power to set aside 
the CCJ, or to adjust the balance, or to tell Erudio to unwind things and treat the account as 
if the deferral had gone through. If Mrs A would like to dispute the basis or balance of the 
CCJ, she might be able to do so through the County Court Business Centre.
I can consider how Erudio dealt with Mrs A before the CCJ. And like our investigator, I do 
think they should have communicated with her more effectively.
For example, Mrs A told Erudio over the phone that she was emailing them the required 
evidence. And given her behaviour afterwards  such as calling Erudio twice and making 
very sure they got her next email  it suggests she did email the evidence the first time 
around. I understand this email didnt end up getting logged on Erudios end, but they could 
have told Mrs A. Erudio did send a generic chaser letter a few days later. But that letter told 
Mrs A to disregard the chaser if shed sent over the information in the last week  which as 
far as she was concerned, she had.
Our investigator suggested Erudio could have phoned or emailed Mrs A to let her know they 
hadnt got the email. Or they could have at least specifically referenced this in their letter. 
I agree that would have been good practice and a more reasonable course of action, which 
might have avoided the later confusion. Erudio say that wasnt their process, but sometimes 
a business should depart from their normal process in order to treat a customer fairly.
I think Erudio made a serious error when they told Mrs A they werent asking her to repay 
her arrears. Like our investigator, I can see why Mrs A would have thought that this advice 
superseded their prior default notice  not least when the notice was a generic letter but their 
later email was tailored to Mrs A. But Erudio then defaulted the account because Mrs A 
hadnt repaid her arrears. I can see why this would have come as a real shock for Mrs A, 
given theyd just told her they werent asking her to repay those same arrears. Further, 
Erudios email only said that Mrs A should clarify the evidence at her earliest convenience. It 
did not give her a solid deadline or mention that her account was about to default if she 
didnt get back to them before then.
So I think Erudio got things wrong here. And I can see that this caused Mrs A some real 
trouble in trying to get things sorted out, as well as some substantial upset when her account 
then defaulted. I think its fair that they should pay Mrs A £150 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans 
Limited to pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman