DRN-3339374
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Hodgson Newcastle Limited mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance alongside a hire-purchase agreement for a car in August 2007.
What happened
Miss Y took out a loan for £10,106.75, repayable over a term of five years. The PPI policy 
cost Miss Y £1409.34 and was paid for by a single premium. That meant Miss Y had to 
borrow extra on top of his loan to pay for it. Interest was also added to the premium. The 
policy covered life, accident and sickness cover only.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ys complaint. They said that as Miss Y was self-employed the 
terms for a self-employed person to be able to claim were quite limited. They said this 
restriction would have mattered to Miss Y and they didn't think Hodgson Newcastle Limited 
should have recommended the policy without pointing out that it did not meet all of Miss Ys 
needs.
Hodgson Newcastle Limited disagreed with our adjudicators view and said that Miss Y was 
still able to have the policy even though she was self-employed, and she could still have 
made a claim for both unemployment and accident and sickness cover. As Hodgson 
Newcastle Limited didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ys complaint for the same reasons given as 
our adjudicator.
It is accepted that this was an advised sale. As such Hodgson Newcastle Limited needed to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss Ys needs and that it 
was the right fit for her particular circumstances.
To help me decide whether the policy was suitable Ive looked at the terms and conditions of
the policy and considered Miss Ys circumstances.
Miss Y has told us she had been self-employed for around three years prior to the sale. The 
policy terms say that in order for a self-employed person to claim the accident and sickness 
benefit, they ...cannot be assisting, managing and/or carrying on any part of the running of 
Your business whatsoever. This means it may be difficult for Miss Y to continue her 
business after she had recovered from any accident or sickness that prevented her from 
being able to do the income earning element of her job.
So, I dont think this was a suitable policy for Miss Y as it would more likely than not have 
been difficult for her to make an accident and sickness claim. I think it would have been 
important for Hodgson Newcastle Limited to point this out to Miss Y. But looking at the 
demands and needs statement, it was only clear that a self-employed person could have the 
policy, not what additional requirements they had to meet in order to make a successful 
claim.
Hodgson Newcastle Limited have said that the demands and needs statement provided a 
warning that employment status might affect a customers ability to claim. But I dont think 
this is clear enough in explaining why, and I think its reasonable to believe Miss Y might 
have thought this applied to her ability to make a claim for unemployment, which she chose 
not to take, rather than for any accident and sickness claims. 
If Miss Y had realised she would have to completely stop her business in order to make a 
claim for accident and sickness  I dont think she likely would have thought it was good 
value for money. So I dont think she would have bought the policy.
Taking everything into consideration, I am upholding the complaint and Hodgson Newcastle 
Limited will have to put things right.
Putting things right
Miss Y borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been, 
and she paid more than she should have each month. So Miss Y needs to get back the extra 
she paid.
So, Hodgson Newcastle Limited must:
Work out and pay Miss Y the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss Y paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss Y made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Hodgson Newcastle Limited 
can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hodgson Newcastle Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Hodgson Newcastle Limited must give Miss Y a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons I've set out, I uphold this complaint about Hodgson Newcastle Limited 
Finance Insurance Services Ltd and require it to comply with the putting things right section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman