DRN-2511341
The complaint
Miss H complains about HDI Global Specialty SEs handling of her property insurance 
claim for subsidence.
 
What happened
In 2013, Miss H made a subsidence claim after noticing some cracks in her property. 
HDI accepted the claim. Its engineer thought the subsidence damage was caused by a 
nearby tree, which was owned by the Local Authority.
Despite HDIs attempts to persuade the Local Authority to remove the tree, it didnt do so.
HDIs engineer found the property was continuing to move, and recommended that the 
front and right-hand side of the property should be underpinned. Although there were 
some other cracks elsewhere in the property, he didnt think they had been caused by 
subsidence.
Miss H didnt agree with this. She provided her own report from a structural engineer, who 
thought all external and internal walls of their property needed to be underpinned. HDI 
didnt agree. It thought the additional work was either preventative or unnecessary. 
Unhappy with this, Miss H brought a complaint to this service.
My ombudsman colleague issued a final decision on 14 December 2016. Given the two 
conflicting expert reports, she thought HDI should appoint and pay for a third structural 
engineer to assess the damage, and decide what damage was caused by subsidence, 
and what repairs were necessary for that damage.
Shortly after this, an arborist (Mr C) carried out an inspection. Mr C found that three 
trees (Oak, Beech and Ash) were impacting the property. He recommended their 
complete removal.
HDI arranged for a third structural engineer (that Ill call G) to assess the damage, 
and make recommendations.
G completed its inspection in June 2018. It thought the subsidence damage had been 
caused by the three nearby trees (which were owned by three separate third parties), 
and recommended they be removed. It said if the third parties didnt given their 
agreement to have the trees removed within eight weeks, then an engineered solution 
should be implemented.
The Oak was removed in January 2019, but the other two werent. HDI wanted to carry 
out further monitoring over the 2019 growing period. This was in order to provide further 
evidence to the remaining two tree owners that their trees were still causing movement 
even though the Oak had been removed. In June 2019, Miss H refused to allow further 
monitoring to take place, and instead wanted HDI to implement an engineered solution. 
HDI refused and so Miss H brought a new complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 December 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr C recommended that all three trees be removed. He also said a root barrier had been 
considered and rejected as impractical. But Mr C thought further information was needed 
via monitoring in order to determine the response of the building to any initial tree control 
measures.
In June 2018, G carried out its inspection. It thought the Oak and Ash trees were causing 
the foundation movement at the rear of the property, and the Beech tree was causing the 
foundation movement at the front. G agreed with Mr C that the three trees needed to be 
removed. It said if tree removal wasnt achievable, it would be necessary to implement an 
engineering solution, which could be underpinning or a root barrier, or a combination of 
the two.
G explained there was a range of opinion within the industry as to whether a root barrier 
can provide an effective long-term solution to root-induced subsidence. It thought a root 
barrier at the front of the property would be impractical, but could be considered as a 
possible solution at the rear. However, it acknowledged that roots may grow around, under 
or through the barrier. Consequently, it said underpinning is generally the preferred 
solution where there are large seasonal movements and removal of the implicated trees 
isnt achievable. It thought it was unnecessary to underpin the internal walls as well as the 
external ones.
G concluded by saying that if the third-party tree owners didnt give their agreement to 
remove the trees within a reasonable period (it suggested eight weeks), then 
arrangements should be made to implement an engineered solution. It also said that as 
the damage at the rear of the property was essentially cosmetic, consideration should be 
given to a root barrier, though it again acknowledged that underpinning would provide a 
surer solution. Finally, G said the monitoring should be re-started to assess the impact of 
the weather on the shrinkage taking place, and to allow the effectiveness of any tree 
management to be confirmed.
Unfortunately, there was some delay after this because the ownership of one of the 
trees hadnt been established.
In January 2019, the Oak tree was removed. The owners of the Beech and Ash trees 
didnt agree to their removal.
HDI arranged for further monitoring to take place after the removal of the Oak tree. This 
was to establish the impact of the trees removal on the property during the 2019 growing 
period (summer). Unfortunately, in June 2019, Miss H refused to allow further monitoring 
to take place. She thought HDI needed to implement an engineered solution at that point, 
given how long the matter had been ongoing.
I do sympathise with Miss H. She had been experiencing subsidence in her property since 
2013, and thought HDI werent complying with Gs recommendations to implement an 
engineered solution after eight weeks. HDI says it wanted the monitoring to take place 
over the summer and anticipated it would finish around October 2019. However, it seems 
it didnt make this clear to Miss H at the time. She thought the monitoring was going to be 
continuing indefinitely whilst HDI continued to try and obtain the agreement of the two 
remaining tree owners to have their trees removed.
It seems to be accepted that the Beech isnt going to be removed, and therefore 
underpinning will need to take place at the front of the property. HDI appears to think that 
the owners of the Ash tree may agree to its removal, if theres evidence to show that its still causing subsidence damage following the removal of the Oak.
However, given the length of time that matters have been ongoing, I think its unfair to 
expect Miss H to wait for yet more monitoring to take place, and then for HDI to enter into 
further potentially protracted legal correspondence with the owner of the Ash tree.
G made it clear back in June 2018 that if the owners didnt agree to the removal of the 
trees within a reasonable period, then arrangements should be made to implement an 
engineered solution. Consequently, I think HDI should have abandoned its attempts to 
have the Beech and Ash trees removed back in 2018, and implemented an engineered 
solution once the Oak tree had been removed.
Having said that, I accept that some monitoring may need to take place, to establish the 
impact of the removal of the Oak tree. I say that because both Mr C and G thought 
monitoring would need to take place to establish the effectiveness of any tree 
management that takes place. Also, G had presented two possible engineered solutions 
for the rear of the property (root barrier or underpinning), and thought underpinning would 
be the preferable option where there is large seasonal movements and removal of the 
implicated trees isnt achievable. Since then, the Oak tree has been removed. If that has 
reduced the movements, underpinning may not be required, and a root barrier may now 
be the preferred option.
Consequently, I think HDI should arrange for G to assess the current damage to the 
property, so it can establish the difference in cracks compared to its previous results. 
Given that two growing seasons have taken place since the Oak was removed and G last 
monitored the property, hopefully it will be able to establish whether further movement has 
taken place in that period without any further monitoring. However, if G says that further 
monitoring needs to take place to establish this, then HDI will need to be guided by its 
advice. Once G has the necessary results, it should advise HDI whether underpinning or a 
root barrier solution is needed at the rear, and HDI should comply with its 
recommendations.
To be clear, any further monitoring recommended would be to establish what engineered 
solution would be the most appropriate now that the Oak has been removed. HDI should 
not continue to try and persuade the remaining tree owners to agree to their removal.
I appreciate that Miss H wants HDI to arrange for the property to be underpinned, and has 
provided a further letter from her structural engineer in support of this. However, I think 
the above would be the fairest approach given the detailed investigations and findings of 
G in respect of the rear of the property, which Ive outlined above.
I think Miss H has been caused a great deal of inconvenience as a result of the 
further delays in this claim, and so I intend to require HDI to pay her £1,000 
compensation to recognise this.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make, before I 
reached a final decision. 
HDI responded to say it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the following:
Mr Cs report prepared in January 2017 was not in any way connected to my 
ombudsman colleagues decision dated 16 December 2016.
The owner of the Beech tree accepts that their tree is causing movement to the front 
of the property, and has agreed to pay for the cost of underpinning the front. Any attempts to have this tree removed ceased long ago. 
G thought the Ash tree at the tree at the rear was likely to have a far greater influence 
on the movement and should be removed, and acknowledged that the Oak was likely 
to be affecting the movement to a lesser degree. HDI thought it was reasonable to 
pursue removal of the trees, once monitoring had proven that seasonal movement 
was taking place. Although G had suggested an engineered solution should be 
implemented after eight weeks, it would be impossible to achieve tree removal in 
eight weeks given monitoring would need to take place before a tree owner would 
agree to its removal.
Miss H delayed matters since 2017. Gs appointment was delayed for 18 months, 
and meant that HDI were precluded from monitoring the property throughout the 
2017 and 2018 growing seasons. And as Miss H refused to allow monitoring beyond 
June 2019, another year of data was lost. 
Its final decision made Miss H aware in August 2019 that if monitoring should resume 
in the next two weeks, it should have sufficient data to pursue removal of the 
offending tree.
It thinks it should be allowed to monitor in 2021 and, if the data does not persuade 
the tree owner to remove the tree, it will proceed in line with Gs recommendations.
Miss H responded to ask me to confirm that HDI had failed to comply with my ombudsman 
colleagues decision of December 2016. She also asked if I could consider increasing the 
scope of the report required to be provided by G to include recommendations to restore the 
property to its pre-incident condition, and investigate and report on the need for the internal 
walls to be underpinned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion expressed in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why. 
HDI says that Mr Cs report wasnt connected to my ombudsman colleagues decision from 
December 2016. I can confirm I was aware of that. 
Ive noted what HDI says about no longer attempting to persuade the owner of the Beech 
tree to agree to its removal.
Although HDI says that it couldnt have arranged for the removal of the trees in the eight-
week timeframe given by G, it had already carried out monitoring and so had data to show 
the tree owners, so I dont agree that this would have been impossible.
I accept that Miss H did cause some delays. Gs inspection was delayed for some time due 
to personal matters that were taking place for Miss H at the time. Though I dont agree with 
HDI that it was prevented from carrying out monitoring during the 2018 growing season. Gs 
inspection took place in June 2018, so it seems to me that monitoring could have taken 
place during that years growing season. 
HDIs final response of August 2019 did say that if monitoring should resume in the next two 
weeks it should still have sufficient data to pursue the removal of the offending tree. But it didnt give Miss H an anticipated end date. I understand that HDI thought monitoring would 
only be needed until October 2019, but I cant see that it advised Miss H of that. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate Miss H did cause some delays in 2017 and 2018, its still the 
case that the claim has been ongoing since 2013. G carried out its inspection in June 2018 
and recommended that an engineered solution take place after eight weeks, yet this had still 
not been considered by June 2019. 
That being the case, I remain of the opinion that the fairest outcome would be for HDI to 
arrange for G to inspect the damage to the property and advise on the most appropriate 
engineered solution. If further monitoring takes place on Gs recommendations in order to 
establish the most appropriate engineered solution, then this data should not be used by HDI 
to try and persuade the owner of the Ash tree to agree to its removal. 
Miss H thinks that HDI failed to comply with my ombudsman colleagues final decision of 
December 2016. That decision required HDI to appoint and pay for a structural engineer to 
assess the damage and conclude what damage was caused by the subsidence and what 
repairs were necessary. HDI did this. 
Miss H has asked if I will require G to make recommendations to restore the property to its 
pre-incident condition, and investigate and report on the need for the internal walls to be 
underpinned. 
G is a structural engineer, and will need to advise on the most appropriate engineered 
solution in respect of the subsidence. I would not expect them to make recommendations for 
repairs to return the property to its pre-incident condition. That can take place by HDI after 
the subsidence issue has been resolved and a lasting and effective repair has been 
implemented.
In Gs previous report, it provided its view on whether the internal walls needed to be 
underpinned (it didnt think this was necessary). If its view changes after carrying out a new 
inspection, Id expect it to make this clear in its report.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global Specialty SE to 
arrange for G to inspect the current damage to the property, and to advise on the most 
appropriate engineered solution to provide a lasting and effective repair. HDI should 
then comply with its recommendations.
I also require HDI to pay Miss H £1,000 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman