DRN-3033295
The complaint
 Mr P complains about how BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera 
Financial Services (BMWFS) dealt with matters when his car finance agreement came to an 
end 
What happened
In April 2017, Mr P entered into a 36 month personal contract purchase (PCP) for a used car 
with BMWFS. The car cost £10,991, it had covered around 38,000 miles and it was four 
years old. Mr P was required to pay monthly payments of £162 with an optional final 
payment of £5,756. The agreement had an annual mileage limit of 8,000.
The agreement was due to end in April 2020 and arrangements were made for the car to be 
collected on 6 April 2020. However due to the Covid-19 pandemic this was delayed and it 
wasnt collected until 11 June 2020. Upon being returned, the car was appraised and 
damage was found to several areas including the wheels and the door panels. BMWFS sent 
an invoice for £522 which Mr P was required to pay. As Mr P had exceeded the permitted 
mileage, he was also required to pay £123.
  
Unhappy with these end of contract charges, Mr P complained. BMWFS said the damage 
charges had been fairly applied as they were considered beyond fair wear and tear. 
However as a gesture of goodwill they agreed to reduce the damage charge for the door 
RHF (right front door) and wing RHF (right front wing) from £106 to £40 and £42 
respectively, thereby bringing the total for the damage charges down to £392.
Unhappy with their response, Mr P complained to our service. In addition to the end of 
contract charges, he also complained that he intended to sell the car privately but BMWFS 
hadnt provided any other options at the end of the agreement such as a payment deferral or 
an extension. He said he felt he had no alternative but to return the car. Mr P paid the 
charges for the damages and excess mileage but he still disputed them.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. They said there was no evidence Mr P had 
discussed with BMWFS about other options at the end of the agreement so they werent 
reasonably aware of his intentions to sell the car. He believed the damage charges for the 
door RHF and wing RHF werent beyond fair wear and tear and should be refunded but all 
the other damage charges were fairly applied. 
Mr P disagreed and he said he had told BMWFS that he had a potential buyer but he was 
told if he didnt return the car or pay the final amount, this would affect his credit file. BMWFS 
also disagreed, they maintained the damage charges had been fairly applied and they had 
already agreed to reduce it as a gesture of goodwill. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
End of contract
Mr P said had BMWFS provided more options to him at the end of the agreement such as an 
extension, he couldve sold the car privately. He believed the car was worth more than the 
final payment of £5,756 because he had received a quote from a company who was willing 
to buy it for £6,800. At this point, I think its worth highlighting that the quote was the amount 
the company were willing to buy the car for. However I cant hold BMWFS responsible for 
this nor whether the valuation of the car decreased due to the nationwide lockdown. There is 
no evidence to suggest BMWFS wouldve stopped Mr P from settling the agreement in full 
should he have chosen to do so. 
Ive reviewed BMWFS contact notes and I can see in March 2020 as the agreement was 
coming to an end, Mr P was advised of his options and it was later confirmed the car would 
be collected on 6 April 2020. I have seen no evidence from the call notes that Mr P asked 
about alternative end of contract options such as allowing an extension or re-financing of the 
final payment. I understand due to the nationwide lockdown, the car wasnt collected as 
arranged. 
In May 2020, the contact notes show Mr P had another conversation with BMWFS. The 
notes say Customer called requesting may not book collection yet as might receive offer on 
vehicle. This would suggest Mr P was considering keeping the car and using the proceeds 
of the sale to cover the cost of the final payment. However the contact notes suggest he later 
called to arrange for the car to be collected. So while I accept Mr P made BMWFS aware 
that he may wish to keep the car as somebody might buy it, it would appear, he later 
changed his mind. Due to the passage of time, BMWFS has been unable to provide these 
call recordings so Ive had to rely on the contact notes and having done so, on balance, Im 
not persuaded Mr P spoke to BMWFS about other end of contract options such as an 
extension or a payment holiday. Im also mindful that Mr P said he had the money to pay the 
final payment but he decided not to. Given the agreement had ended in April 2020 and Mr P 
remained in possession of the car for at least a further four weeks, had he wanted to discuss 
alternative options with BMWFS, I believe it wouldve been reasonable for him to do so and 
he had additional time to do it. As there is insufficient evidence this happened, I cant say 
BMWFS has treated him unfairly. Im satisfied they ended the agreement in line with what I 
would expect.
Excess mileage
The terms of the finance agreement sets out the amount of miles Mr P is permitted to travel 
per year, which is 8,000, meaning a total of 24,000 throughout the duration of the 
agreement. When supplied, the car had covered 38,000 miles and when it was returned it 
had covered over 65,000 miles. In the event the maximum mileage is exceeded, the 
agreement says We will charge you 4.11 pence for each mile in excess of the maximum 
total mileage.
As it was clear the permitted mileage had been exceeded by roughly 3,000 miles, BMWFS 
were entitled to apply this end of contract charge so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
Damage chargesMr P said he wasnt told at the time of entering into the agreement he would be required to 
pay for damage to the car. He thought this would only apply if major damage had been 
caused. He also said as this was a used car, it already had signs of wear and tear and given 
it had been in his possession for three years, further signs of wear and tear were expected. 
The terms of the agreement, which Mr P signed in April 2017, explains if the car isnt 
returned in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear), BMWFS will charge 
for each item of damage. Mr P signed this agreement when he acquired the car so I cant 
say he wasnt made aware of the same. 
Ive also been provided with copies of letters that were sent to him in October 2019 and 
February 2020, which reiterates that if the car is returned and damage is found, BMWFS 
may apply charges. On this basis, Im satisfied BMWFS has made the position clear about 
the end of contract charges for damages and Mr P had enough time to familiarise himself 
with the return process. 
Generally speaking, when an agreement comes to an end and the car is being returned, it 
would be appraised in line with the firms returns process. Due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, it wasnt safe for the car to be collected or inspected 
in April 2020. In this case, Mr Ps car wasnt collected until 11 June 2020 which is two 
months later than planned. But given the unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, I 
dont believe this was unreasonable in the circumstances.
BMWFS said when considering damage, they refer to the guidance published by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry guidance which sets out 
what is considered fair wear and tear when cars are returned at the end of their agreements. 
However I must bear in mind this guidance is primarily for cars that were new when supplied. 
In this case, the car was around seven years old when it was returned and it had travelled 
over 65,000 miles so I must take this into account when considering the damage reported. 
Nevertheless, I think its fair for BMWFS and our service to take the BVRLA guidance into 
account as its still relevant about what is considered fair wear and tear. 
Unfortunately I havent been provided with any evidence about the condition of the car when 
it was supplied to Mr P in April 2017. But given the car was four years old and covered over 
38,000 miles when he acquired it, I believe its fair to say its most likely some wear and tear 
wouldve been present. 
Ive considered the inspection report that was completed when the car was returned and 
appraised including its accompanying pictures. I will consider each reported area of damage.
Wheels
The inspection reports states damage is found on all four wheels and BMWFS charged £51 
for each of them. The BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel are acceptable. Having reviewed the photographs of the reported damage, I 
can see there are significant scuff marks around all the wheels which in my opinion are 
evidently well in excess of 50mm. Therefore, Im satisfied this damage is beyond fair wear 
and tear even given the cars age and mileage so BMWFS were entitled to charge for this.  
QTR panel
The BVRLA says scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing 
are acceptable provided they can be polished out. Having looked at the photographs of this 
reported damage, its clear there is a long scratch on this panel and based on the measuring 
tool shown against it, it measures over 100mm. As this is significantly above the BVLRAs 
guidance, I believe BMWFS were entitled to charge for this. 
Wing RHFThe inspection report says there are scratches on this panel. In the above paragraph Ive set 
out the BVLRAs guidance about scratches so I wont repeat them again. However the 
guidance also says up to four surface scratches per panel are acceptable. From the photos, 
I can see two scratches and based on the measuring tool shown against it, I believe they are 
both approximately 30mm in size. Given the age and mileage of the car, I agree with the 
investigator that this damage can be considered fair wear and tear. So while I accept 
BMWFS has reduced this charge, I dont believe this shouldve been charged to begin with.
Door RHF
Paint chips are reported on the right front door. The BVRLA says Chips of 3mm or less in 
diameter are acceptable provided theyre not rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, 
six chips per door edge and eight chips on any forward-facing panel is permitted.            
Given the age and mileage of the car and where these paint chips are located, which in my 
opinion looks like the bottom of the door panel, I dont consider the damage to be beyond fair 
wear and tear. I find the damage is reasonable for a car of its age and mileage. So again 
while, BMWFS has reduced this charge, I dont think they acted fairly in applying this charge.
Overall, I dont believe BMWFS acted unfairly by not considering alternative options when 
the agreement came to an end. This is because Im not persuaded this was requested by 
Mr P and ultimately it was his decision to return the car. While I believe theyve fairly applied 
the charge for excess mileage, I dont believe all of the end of contract charges for damages 
were reasonable. 
BMWFS should waive the damage charges for the door RHF and wing RHF and refund this 
amount to Mr P as I understand he has already paid this. Im satisfied the charges for the 
four wheels and QTR panel have been fairly applied and Ive seen nothing to show that the 
amounts charged are excessive or unreasonable. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. To put 
things right, BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services 
should:
- Refund the end of contract damage charges for the door RHF and wing RHF plus 
pay 8% simple annual interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services considers tax 
should be deducted from the interest part of my award it should provide Mr P with a 
certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim that amount if he is entitled 
to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman