DRN-4061235
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she missed out on a fixed interest rate product because Barclays 
Bank UK PLC did not treat her fairly.
What happened
Mrs W has a mortgage with Barclays. In May 2022, she told Barclays that she was worried 
about interest rates going up and wanted to take a new interest rate product. Barclays 
identified two fixed rate products. It said that one of them wasnt suitable for Mrs W because 
it had an early repayment charge (ERC) and shed said she planned to move home in the 
short term.
Mrs W did not proceed with a new interest rate product. As a result, she said her mortgage 
payments had gone up, she cant afford the new payments and she has lost out on the rates 
that were available. After changing her mind about selling her home, she has found herself 
in a position where she might have to anyway because of the increased mortgage costs.
The investigator said:
It was likely that a fixed rate with an ERC wasnt suitable for Mrs W because shed told 
Barclays she planned to move home.
It was reasonable for Barclays to confirm its position by email  and Mrs W must have 
given it her email address. It was reasonable for Barclays to assume that email was an 
acceptable channel of communication for Mrs W.
When Mrs W didnt hear from Barclays, she could have done more to check what was 
happening with Barclays.
When Mrs W got in touch with Barclays it could not offer her an appointment for two 
weeks. That was not an undue delay. And it offered Mrs W the option to switch her 
mortgage product online.
Barclays was not responsible for the delays in Mrs Ws application. 
Barclays had offered £300 for its complaint handling.
Mrs W did not accept what the investigator said. She made a number of points, including:
Her complaint was not about communication. Rather it was that Barclays refused to carry 
out her request to switch to a new interest rate. She wasnt looking for advice and wasnt 
confident switching online. Barclays should have followed her instructions and switched 
the product over the phone. The adviser she spoke to accepted her instructions and said 
she would call Mrs W back if there were any issues.
She only told Barclays there was a possibility she might sell her home within the year. It 
was likely the ERC would have expired by the time any sale had been finalised. And in 
any event, if the ERC was applied it would not cause her any financial difficulty.
Barclays already had her email address on file. She did not give it specifically to it for this 
application. It was unreasonable for Barclays to assume that she was happy to 
communicate by email  particularly as it had told her it would contact her by phone.
She reasonably assumed the application for the rate switch was progressing following 
the phone call. 
Having switched interest rates many times before by phone, she thought shed done 
everything she needed to. When Barclays offered an appointment in two weeks, shed 
already made her wishes clear and no further action was required on her part.
The rate switch has not been applied at all and that meant her payments have gone up 
significantly.
A copy of the transcript of the relevant phone call was passed to Mrs W to comment. But her 
comments did not change the investigators view of the complaint. .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays was giving Mrs W mortgage advice. It had to recommend a mortgage that was 
suitable for Mrs Ws needs and circumstances  on top of its general obligation to pay due 
regard to her interests. 
Based on what was said during the phone call, it was reasonable for Barclays to understand 
that Mrs W planned to move home in the short term. So it was right for it to have concerns 
about whether a fixed interest rate product with an ERC was suitable for Mrs W and in her 
best interests. I dont consider it would have been fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
recommend a fixed rate product as being the right thing for Mrs W based on what was said 
during the phone call. It was reasonable for it to follow up with Mrs W rather than lock Mrs W 
into a new fixed rate.
Looking at the evidence we have, I think it would be difficult for me to find that Barclays had 
led Mrs W to believe that the new interest rate product had been agreed and was in place 
following the phone call that she had with it. Barclays was clear that there would be further 
contact from it before anything was finalised  and I am satisfied that it got in touch with Mrs 
W by email. This is a valid method of communication and Mrs W had previously given 
Barclays her email address. So it was reasonable for Barclays to use that to contact her.
In any event, bearing in mind the content of the phone call, when Mrs W didnt hear anything 
then there was a reasonable expectation that she would get in touch with Barclays to follow 
up.
When Mrs W got back in touch with Barclays, it said there was a two week wait for a follow 
up appointment  but she had the option to apply online. I dont consider this was 
unreasonable. 
Barclays has offered Mrs W £300 compensation for the way it dealt with the complaint. If Mrs 
W has not already received this payment and now wishes to accept that offer, she should 
contact Barclays directly.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman