DRN-3680895
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt deal fairly with her mortgage 
application. She says it delayed and then reduced the amount it would lend without a 
credible explanation. Miss C asks for a mortgage offer and compensation.
What happened
Miss C applied to Barclays for a residential mortgage via a broker. Barclays issued an 
agreement in principle for about £110,000 in mid-June 2021. Ms C says Barclays reduced 
the amount it said it would lend four times during the application. She says Barclays 
changed its lending criteria part way through the application process and didnt take her buy 
to let income into account, which she considers to be unfair. There was an unexplained 
delay of 2-3 weeks and Barclays said it would only lend £53,000. It then offered £35,000.
Our investigator said Barclays was entitled to make a decision about its lending criteria, 
including how it assesses income. The investigator said it assessed Miss Cs application 
fairly and in accordance with its lending criteria. Barclays offered £125 for poor 
communication, and the investigator said this was fair. 
Miss C said her credit record was excellent and she was offered more than £110,000 by 
other high street lenders. She questions whether Barclays applied its policy correctly and 
fairly. Miss C said the issues are that Barclays:
took too long (eight weeks) to assess her application
reduced the amount it would lend for no reason or for a fake reason
gave conflicting reasons for reducing the amount it would lend
shouldnt have applied a change in policy part way through an application.
Miss C said £125 isnt sufficient compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C said she could offer more information  for instance her communications with her 
broker and her credit report. This isnt necessary for me to reach a fair decision. I should 
also say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Lenders are entitled to determine their own lending criteria, and to make changes to their 
lending criteria. Lending criteria can be commercially sensitive, and lenders dont have to 
share them with customers. I should also say theres no guarantee that a lender will provide 
funds before it issues a mortgage offer. An applicant incurs costs before this at their own 
risk.
That said, Id expect Barclays to apply its lending criteria and process applications fairly. 
Barclays final response letter says its lending policy changed during the course of Miss Cs 
application, before it issued a mortgage offer. Barclays provided evidence to us which 
supports this. Barclays changed how commitments and income related to buy to let 
properties are treated in mortgage affordability assessments. As a result, Barclays didnt 
offer to lend the amount Miss C had applied for.
Miss Cs mortgage application was submitted on or about 10 June 2021. The application 
was approved (for a slightly reduced amount) in early July 2021, and a valuation was 
instructed. The change in lending criteria took effect in mid-July 2021.
Miss C says her broker contacted her on 26 July 2021 saying Barclays had changed its 
lending criteria which meant her mortgage would be reduced massively. The broker hoped, 
given how far along the application was, that Barclays would sign it off under the old rules. 
Barclays says this wasnt possible. Barclays made a mortgage offer in early August 2021 for 
a significantly lower amount  and less than Miss C needed for her purchase.
Miss C says shes looked at Barclays website and in press reports and theres no evidence 
that Barclays changed its lending policy. Barclays doesnt have to publish its lending criteria. 
It provided evidence to us, and it says brokers were told about the change in policy. It seems 
likely Miss Cs broker was aware of the change as she says he contacted her on 26 July 
2021 saying there had been a change in Barclays lending policy.
It was unfortunate that this change came into effect while Miss Cs application was being 
assessed, especially as it had such a significant effect on her application. But I dont think I 
can fairly find that Barclays made an error. As I said, its entitled to make a commercial 
decision about its lending criteria, and it hadnt at this point made an offer to Miss C. While it 
could have made a decision not to apply the new criteria, it didnt have to do so. 
Miss C says the main issue here was the time taken by Barclays to tell her it wouldnt lend 
the amount she wanted. I can understand that, and it must have been very frustrating to be 
told at a late stage in the application process that Barclays couldnt lend the amount she 
wanted to borrow. Had it told her earlier she could have applied elsewhere. But Miss C 
applied to Barclays before the change in its lending criteria. Barclays couldnt have told her 
at that time that it wouldnt be able to lend the amount she wanted. There doesnt appear to 
have been a significant delay between the new criteria taking effect and Miss Cs broker 
telling her that this would reduce the amount Barclays would lend to her.
Barclays did make errors. Miss C says she called Barclays at the end of July 2021 and it 
suggested it would lend the amount she needed once it received the required documents 
from her. The next day she was told it would only lend about half that amount. Miss C says 
Barclays was unclear and gave conflicting reasons for this. I think, in part, this might be 
because the change in lending criteria didnt only change how buy to let commitments and 
income were treated, Barclays also required the income to be evidenced in a different way. 
Having read Barclays notes, I can understand why Miss C found the explanations unclear. 
Miss C says the £125 paid by Barclays isnt enough given the gravity of its errors and the 
possible severity of the consequences  in particular that she could have missed out on her 
purchase. 
It must have been stressful and inconvenient for Miss C to have to re-apply to another lender, after going though most of the application process with Barclays. She was put into a 
difficult and stressful position with her house purchase through no fault of her own. 
Fortunately, Miss C was able to take out a mortgage with another lender (she says this was 
approved in only a few days), and so this didnt cause her purchase to fall through. 
I dont think I can fairly find that Barclays made an error by applying its lending criteria to 
Miss Cs application. And it didnt know  and couldnt have told Miss C or her broker  at the 
outset that there would be a future change in its lending criteria that would have such a 
significant effect on her application. 
It's unclear why this matter meant Miss C had to take advice from a different broker  for 
which she says she paid an additional fee. I dont think I can fairly say Barclays was 
responsible for Miss C changing broker or require Barclays to re-imburse the related costs. 
The error here was that Barclays didnt give Miss C clear information about her application 
after she contacted it in late July 2021. Theres no doubt this was a stressful situation for 
Miss C and the unclear information would have added to this. Barclays says its for the 
broker to update Miss C about the progress of the application. However, it accepts it could 
have told Miss C about the reduced loan amount directly. It offered £125 compensation. I 
think for the additional upset caused by not giving Miss C clear information this is fair and 
reasonable.
Miss C is also unhappy with how Barclays dealt with her complaint. Complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity, meaning its not something we can look into. While I can look into how a 
complaint was dealt with if it impacts on resolving the underlying problem (whether Barclays 
would offer Miss C the mortgage she wanted) that wasnt the case here. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £125 to Miss C, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman