DRN-3054993
The complaint
Mr M complains that the online reporting provided on his self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is insufficient for him to effectively manage the 
performance of his pension investments.
What happened
Mr M holds a SIPP with Aviva. That SIPP was opened to receive pension contributions both 
from Mr M and his former employer. It seems that Mr M was required to hold the Aviva SIPP 
in order to benefit from his employers contributions. But Aviva has confirmed that the 
product Mr M holds is a normal SIPP and is not held under Trust rules. So although the 
opening of the SIPP would have been directed, and most likely assisted, by Mr Ms former 
employer I dont think it can reasonably be described as an occupational pension scheme. 
So it is appropriate for Mr Ms complaint to be considered by me.
Mr Ms pension savings have been held with Aviva for a number of years. In 2018 his 
pension savings were moved from one system to another. That transfer took place 
in-specie but much of the historic performance information on his pension investments was 
not moved to the new system. And, Aviva has explained that the price information it shows 
on its online reporting is not real-time. In most cases the pricing information can be up to two 
days out of date.
So Mr M has complained that, from the information Aviva provides to him via its online 
reporting, he cannot accurately measure the performance of his pension investments. So he 
says that leaves him unable to ensure that he was achieving the best returns on his pension 
savings.
In response to Mr Ms complaint Aviva provided him with some spreadsheets that it said he 
could use to calculate much of the historic costing information that he was seeking. But, as 
Mr M has pointed out, those calculations are complex. And he is still left with the issue that 
he cannot see up to date pricing information. But, although it didnt agree with Mr Ms 
complaint, Aviva accepted that it hadnt dealt with Mr Ms information requests or his 
complaint as quickly as it should have. So it offered Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by two of our investigators. They noted that much of 
the complaint related to how Aviva chose to provide its online servicing. And they thought 
that wasnt something that it would be appropriate to consider in response to the specific 
complaint that Mr M had made. Although they understood the frustrations that Mr M 
experienced they didnt think that Aviva had treated him unfairly.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I want to start this decision by saying that I truly understand the frustration that Mr M is 
facing in trying to gather the information that he feels would be appropriate for him to 
effectively manage his pension investments. But Im sorry to have to tell him that I dont think 
Aviva is doing anything wrong in the way it is administering his SIPP.
Mr Ms SIPP is governed by a series of terms and conditions. Those set out the 
responsibilities of both parties, and how Aviva should operate the SIPP. Although I havent 
seen a full copy of the relevant terms for Mr Ms plan, my experience suggests they would 
not set out a requirement for Aviva to provide him with online access to the specific data that 
he is seeking. So that would mean that Aviva is relatively free to determine what information 
it wishes to provide via its online reporting  and how that information is shown.
Mr M is one of many customers of Aviva who will hold its SIPP products. I accept that Mr M 
had little choice but to place his pension savings with Aviva, since that was the pension 
provider chosen by his former employer. But Aviva needs to balance the reporting 
requirements of its whole customer base, with the costs and practicalities of providing that 
information. It wouldnt be logistically possible for Aviva to provide bespoke reporting to meet 
each of its customers needs.
Ultimately it is for Aviva to decide what information it wishes to provide, and in what format. 
And it would be for the FCA to intervene should it consider that the general service being 
provided by Aviva was unsatisfactory, or the information it presented was incorrect or 
misleading.
In terms of deciding Mr Ms specific complaint I need to consider whether Aviva is treating 
him fairly in relation to its other customers, and what it has agreed to provide for him via the 
terms and conditions of his SIPP. I havent seen anything that makes me think Aviva is 
failing to provide Mr M with something that he is entitled to receive. Whilst the additional 
information might be helpful for Mr M, in his particular circumstances, it doesnt seem to me 
that Aviva is deliberately withholding that data from him. It is simply not something that its 
online reporting is designed to offer.
As I said earlier, Aviva offered Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset hed been caused by its 
delayed responses to his complaint. I understand that compensation hasnt yet been paid 
and Aviva is awaiting Mr Ms instructions on how the payment should be made. Mr M should 
get in touch with Aviva directly should he wish to accept its offered compensation.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman