DRN-3300163
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society caused a delay and failed to transfer his 
ISA correctly which has resulted in him losing out on his Help to Buy ISA status. 
What happened
Mr A made an online application with Nationwide for a Member Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA, on 
23 March 2021. Mr A wanted to transfer two of his existing ISAs into this account. Both were 
from different providers and one was a Help to Buy ISA. Mr A thought the transfer of his Help 
to Buy ISA would have resulted in Nationwide opening a separate Help to Buy ISA account 
with it. But this didnt happen and both ISAs were transferred to the Member Exclusive Fixed 
Rate ISA. 
Mr A also said that the transfer took too long and had it completed quicker he would have 
picked up on the error. He was also not happy that the interest on the Member Exclusive 
Fixed Rate ISA was paid monthly into a separate account when he was expecting for this to 
be paid annually directly into his ISA account. 
Nationwide says Mr A made the application online and as it had stopped offering Help to Buy 
ISAs from the end of 2019 Mr A couldnt have selected any option to have the Help to Buy 
ISA set up with it. Nationwide also said that there were two options to select how to receive 
the interest, either annually or monthly and if the monthly option was selected it could only 
have been paid into a separate account as per the terms and conditions. And it says Mr A 
chose the option to have the interest paid monthly. 
Nationwide did agree it took longer than expected to transfer and open the Member 
Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA, so it backdated Mr As account opening and deposit to the date 
Mr A had requested the ISAs be transferred. This was in line with its saving promise. 
Nationwide also offered Mr A £50 for the inconvenience caused.   
Mr A remained unhappy so brought his complaint to us but the investigator didnt uphold it. 
She thought Nationwide had fairly dealt with the complaint by offering to backdate the 
account opening and offer Mr A £50 compensation. She didnt think Nationwide had made a 
mistake in not transferring the existing ISA to a new Help to Buy ISA with it or with the way in 
which the interest was paid on the account. 
Mr A didnt accept the view and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint for a final 
decision. He says
while he knows providers no longer offer the Help to Buy ISA he thought that 
providers that had previously offered it would accept the transfer of an existing Help 
to Buy ISA, like some other current providers were allowing
the terms for how the interest would be paid werent made clear to him
if the ISA had been set up and transferred in a timely manner, he could have 
cancelled it in the cooling off period
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr A applied for the Member Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA online without any advice or 
recommendation from Nationwide. Nationwide told us it stopped providing Help to Buy ISAs 
from the end of 2019 so I dont think it is likely that Mr A would have been able to select a 
Help to Buy ISA when processing his application for the transfer of his ISAs. 
Mr A says he assumed Nationwide would allow the existing Help to Buy ISAs to continue 
with it after the transfer. But the terms dont say anything about Nationwide allowing existing 
Help to Buy ISAs to continue with it once transferred to the new Member Exclusive Fixed 
Rate ISA. And whilst other providers may allow this, I cant say Nationwide did anything 
wrong because it didnt. It is a commercial decision for Nationwide to make, as to what 
products it wants to offer to its customers. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
There also wasnt a requirement for Nationwide to notify Mr A what would happen to his Help 
to Buy ISA once it was transferred. As the investigator mentioned the scheme rules already 
set out what would happen once an ISA was transferred out of the Help to Buy scheme, so 
the responsibility was on Mr A to understand the implications of the transfer to the new ISA. 
So Im satisfied that Nationwide werent unreasonable in transferring both of Mr As ISAs to 
the Member Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA as thats what he instructed it to do. 
Ive also thought about the way the interest was charged on the account. The Member 
Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA has two options as to how interest is paid, either monthly or 
annually. Mr A says he has lost out because the interest on his account was paid into 
another account on a monthly basis and had it been paid directly to the ISA account, he 
would have benefitted from the tax-free option. 
As mentioned, Mr A applied for the account online and whilst I havent seen the exact 
screens Mr A would have been presented with, I have reviewed how on other similar ISA 
accounts with Nationwide this is set out. Its likely Mr A would have been given the option to 
either select to receive the interest monthly or annually. When the option is selected to 
receive the interest monthly it would require the entry of separate account details. 
If Mr A didnt want to pay this into a separate account I would have expected him to question 
this at the time or select the option to receive the interest annually which would have allowed 
him to receive the interest in the ISA account. So I dont think Nationwide acted 
unreasonably here either as the options are likely to have been clear when Mr A applied for 
the account and it was up to Mr A how he chose to receive the interest. 
Nationwide have acknowledged things didnt go as well as it would have expected, and the 
transfer of the ISAs took longer than it should have so it backdated Mr As transfer and also 
offered him £50 in compensation. I think this is fair and in line with what I would expect in the 
circumstances. 
Mr A says had the transfer completed sooner he would have been able to cancel it during 
the cooling off period. But as Ive mentioned above it was Mr A who chose the ISA and 
Nationwide processed the transfer as he had requested online. If Mr A was unsure or 
concerned, he could have contacted Nationwide sooner to seek clarification even during the 
delay.It follows I am satisfied the compensation offered by Nationwide and the other adjustments 
for interest, are fair. So, while Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking 
anymore of Nationwide here   
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman