DRN-2420292
The complaint
Mr B complains because a medical condition which he previously declared wasnt carried 
over onto his travel insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
Mr B holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. The travel insurance 
policy is provided by AXA.
In March 2020, Mr B contacted AXA to enquire about his travel insurance cover. During the 
conversation, Mr B learned that details of his medical condition hadnt been carried over onto 
his existing policy when the policy provider changed in 2015. 
Mr B complained to AXA. AXA sent Mr B a final response letter saying it was a customers 
responsibility to ensure their policy cover was up to date, and that the previous insurer would 
have informed Mr B in 2015 that he needed to contact AXA about his medical condition. AXA 
paid Mr B £25 as a gesture of goodwill because of its delay in reviewing his complaint. 
As Mr B remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think AXA had 
done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs travel insurance policy with AXA say:
Medical screening for travel insurance
Your Worldwide Travel Insurance doesnt include cover for pre-existing medical 
conditions. So before you travel please take a good look at AXAs medical screening 
questions.
To make sure your policy fully covers you for any trip its important that when you 
make a travel booking you tell AXA about any pre-existing medical condition affecting 
the health of the people travelling  you, your spouse, partner or children. 
I think this makes it clear that its Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he tells AXA about any 
medical conditions he has which might affect his cover when he makes a booking to travel. 
I understand Mr B declared his medical condition to the previous provider of his travel 
insurance policy. However, I wouldnt generally expect information about medical conditions 
to be automatically passed between insurers in circumstances such as these. Each insurer 
has its own criteria about which medical conditions it is prepared to accept cover for and at 
what price, so AXA may not automatically agree to cover Mr Bs medical condition on the 
same terms as the previous insurer. Also, medical conditions can change over time and only 
the policyholder will have this knowledge. So, its the policyholders responsibility to make 
sure an insurer holds the correct information about their medical conditions. 
Mr B says if hed made a claim for medical expenses under his policy with AXA, the claim 
wouldnt have been paid and he could have been left with thousands of pounds of medical 
bills. I cant say with any certainty what would have happened if Mr B had needed to make a 
claim  the outcome is likely to have depended on the specific circumstances of that claim. 
While I can appreciate Mr Bs concerns, the Financial Ombudsman Service considers 
complaints based on the facts of what actually happened, and not on what could have or 
might have happened. Mr B hasnt lost out financially and, even if he had, I dont think I 
could fairly conclude that this was due to any failings by AXA. Based on my experience of 
dealing with complaints of this type, I think its likely either Mr Bs bank or his previous travel 
insurance provider would have contacted him in 2015 to notify him that the travel insurance 
provider was changing. 
If Mr B has medical conditions which he requires cover for, then he needs to tell AXA about 
them in line with the instructions set out in his policy documents. 
AXA has paid Mr B £25 compensation in recognition of its delay in dealing with his 
complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be asking AXA 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman