DRN-1563102
The complaint
Mr C complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline his income 
protection claim.
What happened
Mr C had the benefit of a group income protection scheme through his employer. The policy 
was provided by Aviva, and Mr C had made a claim on it following a road traffic accident 
(RTA) in 2017.
Aviva didn't think there was sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr C had been 
incapacitated throughout the policys deferred period, so they declined his claim. But Mr C 
disagreed with that decision and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what happened, and recommended that Mr C underwent 
an independent medical examination (IME) to determine his incapacitation. Both parties 
agreed with that recommendation, so this service closed its file on Mr Cs initial complaint. 
Following the above, two IMEs were completed with Mr C in October 2018; both of which 
reported that he was suitable for resuming part-time work in a suited occupation within the 
next few months. As a result of those IMEs, Aviva agreed to pay Mr Cs claim until the end 
of January 2019. And they also advised that they would close Mr Cs claim if he hadn't 
resumed work by February 2019. 
Mr C didn't go on to resume work in February 2019, so Aviva closed his claim. But Mr C 
provided further evidence in March 2019 which he said demonstrated why he was still 
unable to work. Aviva said that Mr Cs claim had already closed though, and any period of 
absence after that closure would be considered as a new claim rather than a continuation of 
the original one.
In view of that, Aviva explained that Mr Cs policy required him to have been actively at work 
immediately prior to any incapacitation in order for him to receive a benefit under it. And so, 
given Mr C hadn't resumed work following the IMEs, Aviva said he hadn't been actively at 
work and therefore hadn't satisfied the policy's requirements. 
Unhappy with Avivas position, Mr C referred a second complaint to this service. An 
investigator considered the complaint and said that Mr C hadn't been at work since the RTA 
in 2017, and still appeared to be absent for the same reasons. So, under our fair and 
reasonable remit, our investigator thought that Aviva should re-open Mr Cs original claim 
and consider the further evidence hed provided in line with that.
But Aviva disagreed and maintained that the matter should be considered under a second 
claim. So as no agreement was reached the issue was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am going to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our 
investigator and will explain why.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Aviva are required to handle claims 
both promptly and fairly and not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy explain that Aviva will only pay a total benefit 
when an individual had been actively at work immediately before the start of their 
incapacitation. Specifically, the policy says:
We will pay total benefit if immediately before the start of incapacity the member was 
actively at work and following their job role and after the start of incapacity they are not 
following any other occupation and the deferred period has finished.
In this case, Aviva had closed Mr Cs original claim by the time he submitted further 
evidence and a new claim had been opened for him. So, strictly under the terms and 
condition of the policy, I agree that Mr C hadn't met the policys requirements because he 
hadn't been actively at work.
But, whilst I have to take into account what the terms and conditions of a policy provide, I 
also have to think about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a case. And 
having thought about that here, Im not persuaded that it was fair or reasonable for Aviva to 
have raised a second claim in these particular circumstances.
Mr C first became absent from work following his RTA in 2017. He has not resumed work 
since then, and he continues to maintain that his reasons for being continually unable to do 
so are related to the RTA in 2017. So it would appear that the circumstances of this case 
involve one bout of absence, potentially for the same reasons. 
If, for example, Mr C had resumed work or had claimed that his continued absence was now 
related to an entirely separate matter, I might have been persuaded otherwise. But in the 
circumstances of this case, I think re-opening the original claim to assess the further medical 
evidence that Mr C has provided would be the fair and reasonable thing for Aviva to do.
That is, of course, not to say that the further evidence Mr C has provided will go on to 
demonstrate that he is eligible for any benefit under the policy. But for the reasons given 
above I think Mr Cs original claim should be re-opened. 
Putting things right
Aviva should put things right by re-opening Mr C's original claim and carrying out a further 
assessment in light of the new evidence he provided  taking into account the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should put 
things right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Jade AlexanderOmbudsman