DRN-2662184
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly declined a claim 
under her motor insurance policy voided her policy and is now pursuing her for the other 
drivers claim costs.
What happened
 Mrs R had insurance policy with Calpe that covered her to use her car for social, domestic 
and pleasure (SDP) purposes only. The policy began on 13 August 2018, at the time Mrs R 
with a full-time student and not working.
In February 2019 Mrs R began a cleaning job on a self-employed basis  this meant she had 
to travel between jobs and did so using her car. She didn't inform Calpe of the change in use 
of her car.
In March 2019 Mrs R was involved in an accident that she was deemed to be at fault for. 
During the claim is investigation Mrs are revealed that she was using the calf are travelling to 
and from her cleaning jobs. Calpe said that as she wasn't covered for that activity, she had 
breached the policy terms and so it wouldn't cover the claim. It voided her policy and kept 
the premiums, as the policy terms and conditions allow it to.
Calpe covered some of the third party claim but not all of it. It has paid out £3,794.18 in costs 
on the claim broken down as below:
Third party hire costs £684.18
Third party personal injury claim £2,250
Third Party costs £660
investigation fee £200
Calpe originally told Mrs R that as her excess was a £3,000 all areas one, she was 
responsible for the first £3000 of the claim. It also said it would deduct accidental damage to 
her car from this which was £1500  leaving her £1500 pay. Mrs R has been paying this 
under an arrangement with Calpe of £75 per month.
Calpe has since said it made a mistake and she should be liable for all of the costs, it has 
not acted to correct this mistake.
Mrs R is also being pursued by the third party insurer for the loss of the other drivers vehicle 
which she has said is in the region of £6,000.
Mrs R brought her complaint to this service, the investigator upheld her complaints. In 
summary they said:
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is 
relevant in this case and as such Calpe should apply it.
Mrs R misrepresented the facts by not updating Calpe of her change of use and this 
was careless
As the misrepresentation was careless, Calpe should apply the relevant remedy  
which would in this case beef it to do what it would have done, had she made it 
aware of the change. So, charge the additional premium and pay a proportionate 
amount of the claim  in Mrs ours case the investigator worked this out be 93%.
Calpe didn't agree, in summary it said:
It had taken legal advice and CIDRA didn't apply in this case. It was a breach of 
condition, and the use of the vehicle was not permitted and so no cover was in place 
at the time of the accident.
It had settled the claim as the article 75 insurer and subjugated claims are permitted 
 the claim from the third party insurer was a subjugated claim and therefore it was 
not required to reimburse it.
The matter was then passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional findings on 12 
February 2021 and invited both parties to respond. My findings were:
calpe has told us that had Mrs R told it into agree 2019 that she would now require business 
use, it would have provided cover under the policy. However, Mrs R would have had to pay 
an additional premium. This would have been £54 her change in occupation and £56.05 for 
the changing use, so a total of £110.05.
However, I do agree with Calpe that CIDRA is not relevant here. Mrs R made no 
misrepresentation but did misunderstand what she was covered for.
Mrs R has said she didn't realise she couldn't use her car for travelling to and from her work. 
And while she should have been aware and should have updated Calpe when she changed 
the use of her car, I do believe this is a genuine oversight on her part. I say this because, 
English is not Mrs Rs first language and so understanding the documentation may have 
been difficult for her. Also, she was a student with no income at the start of the policy and 
only a very low one once she began her self-employed job in February 2019. She paid an 
annual premium of £2623.14. Given she had paid this premium per policy I think it is 
reasonable to assume she would have been willing to pay the extra £110.05 to be covered 
fully, especially as the children would travel with her in the car.
Given the circumstances of this particular complaint, Mrs ours limited knowledge of the 
English language, Calpes confirmation they would've covered her for business use, and the 
low value of the additional premium. I think the fair and reasonable thing to do here is for 
Calpe to treat Mrs R as if she had made them aware of the changing use.
To do this Calpe should remove all traces of the avoidance from any databases and deal 
with the claim. This includes taking on the cost of the other driver's claim that the third party 
insurer is pursuing Mrs R for.
Calpe can decide if it wants to charge Mrs R the additional premium and meet the claim in 
full settle the claim on a proportionate basis as it would under CIDRA. It is entitled to ask Mrs 
R to pay her excess, as the policy requires her to, but it must take into account her losses on 
our own car when doing so. Any monies Mrs R has already paid to Calpe towards this 
should be taken into account.I appreciate that Calpe isn't to blame for the circumstances of the unfortunate position Mrs R 
has found herself in. As I've asked Calpe to settle this based on my remit of deciding what's 
fair and reasonable in the round, I don't think it's appropriate in the circumstances to award 
any payment for trouble and upset to Mrs R.
To put things right Calpe should:
Remove all traces of the avoidance of Mrs ours policy
Deal with the claim in full  including the third party claim. It is entitled to deduct any 
excess due from the claim recover this from Mrs R is necessary it should take into 
account any monies Mrs R has already paid towards her excess
Mrs R responded accepting my findings and said she had nothing further to add.
Calpe also responded, it disagreed with my findings, in summary it said:
Mrs R was fully aware she was using her vehicle for a purpose other than what she 
was covered for under her policy.
The fact that Mrs R had limited means made it most likely that she had bought the 
cheapest cover available.
Mrs Rs language difficulties are not a reasonable excuse for her to ignore the policy 
terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given careful consideration to the responses from both parties, Ive reached the 
same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for largely the same reasons, Ill 
explain.
I don't believe Mrs R was aware she was using her vehicle for a purpose that she wasn't 
covered for under her policy. I say this because even though she had limited means she had 
already paid around £2,000 for her policy, showing she was willing to make sacrifices, where 
she needed to, to ensure she had the necessary cover in place. 
She was truthful about the circumstances of the claim when reporting it and has not tried to 
hide anything throughout the lifetime of the claim, this is confirmed in by the claim 
investigation interview notes provided by Calpe. This along with her language difficulties 
satisfies me that it was a genuine oversight on her part, that she didn't realise she didn't 
have the correct cover in place and didnt realise that in taking on some work to help her 
increase her income while still studying was something that she needed to inform her insurer 
about.
Because I'm satisfied, this was a genuine oversight and Calpe has confirmed it would have 
offered cover, had Mrs R asked for it. I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for it to 
now deal with this claim as if the cover was in place, it can do this either by offering a partial 
settlement or, if it chooses, to charge Mrs R the additional premium and settle the claim in 
full.  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs R's complaint against 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited. To put things right it should now:
Remove all traces of the avoidance from Mrs R's policy
Deal with the claim by either:
offering Mrs R a partial settlement, or
charging Mrs R the additional premium and settle in the claim in full.
Whichever settlement option it chooses, it should include the third party claim also. It is 
entitled to deduct any excess due from the claim or recover this from Mrs R as necessary. It 
should take into account any monies Mrs R has already paid towards her excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman