DRN-1888427
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Amtrust Europe Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining their claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want the claim accepted, 
their legal costs paid and compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the decline.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a legal expenses insurance policy with Amtrust (as part of their household 
insurance). They sold a property on 5 December 2018, but the buyers solicitors sent a letter 
of claim in August 2019, Japanese Knotweed having been discovered at the property. 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under the policy for legal assistance. The claim was declined by 
Amtrust as it said the incident date was after the policy had been cancelled when the letter of 
claim was received, so wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Amtrust. It said that the policy defined the date of incident as 
the date of the event or the first event where there is more than one event arising from the 
same cause. Amtrust said the letter of claim was the date of incident, and this was after the 
policy had been cancelled on 5 December 2018. Mr and Mrs T instructed their own solicitors 
at their own cost and later settled the claim.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us, saying that as they sold the property on 5 December 2018 
but gave the information saying that there was no knotweed on 2 October 2018, the incident 
date arose then when the policy was in force. The investigators view was that Amtrust was 
at fault and the claim should be reconsidered under the rest of the terms and conditions of 
the policy. She said that the date of incident was when the property was sold, and it wasnt 
fair or reasonable for Amtrust to decline the claim in the circumstances.
Amtrust disagreed. It remained of the view that the date of incident wasnt when the property 
was sold as there was no dispute at that date. Mr and Mrs T accepted the investigators 
view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Amtrust, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. I note that it covers the 
defence of claims relating to the selling of a property. The key dispute is when the date of 
incident occurred and I note the definition set out above is within the policy. The first event in 
my view is when the property was sold by Mr and Mrs T to the buyer  this event then gave 
the buyer ownership of the land and the right to enforce any warranties about its condition or 
make a claim of misrepresentation. The sale happened on 5 December 2018. This is the first 
event giving rise to the alleged claim. 
I accept though that Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor have argued that the date is earlier and arose 
when the contracts to exchange were signed. Im not going to make a finding about whether 
this is legally correct as that isnt my role, but I have no doubt that at the time of completion, 
the cause of action had arisen as from the evidence before me is that the knotweed was 
likely to be in the soil (as it had been previously treated as Amtrust was told when the claim 
was made), Mr and Mrs T had signed a legal document that there was no knotweed present, 
and the buyer then owned the land and able to take action. 
The policy was in force when the property was sold. The fact that the letter of claim wasnt 
received until August 2019 doesnt change the fact that the first event was much earlier. The 
letter of claim isnt the date when the claim arose  that isnt how causes of action arise. The 
letter is merely a legal notification of the intention to claim. Amtrust says at the date of 
completion of the sale of the property, there was no dispute. But this overlooks the fact that 
by the date of completion, the buyer had been told there was no knotweed. I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for Amtrust to treat the letter of claim as the date of incident.
Putting things right
I dont think that it was fair or reasonable for Amtrust to decline to consider the claim in all 
the circumstances, given the wording of the policy and the date of the sale of the property. I 
think that the fair and reasonable resolution is for the claim to be considered in line with the 
terms and conditions of the rest of the policy, such as reasonable prospects of success. 
I acknowledge that if the claim is found to be valid, the costs recoverable by Mr and Mrs T 
are likely to be limited to the amount that the panel solicitors wouldve received due to the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
If theres then a dispute about the later decision made following the reconsideration of the 
claim, its open to Mr and Mrs T to raise a new complaint with Amtrust and then this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and the claim should be considered again in 
light of the terms and conditions of the policy as the date of incident is when the policy was 
in force. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and 
Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman