DRN-3074956
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the delays caused during the transfer of his pension plan from 
his original provider into his Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (trading as Vanguard) pension 
plan. He believes this has caused a financial loss and holds Vanguard accountable for this.  
What happened
Mr G held a SIPP with another provider  Ill refer to them as the transferring provider.
On 26 February 2020 Mr G requested a full transfer from his SIPP to his Vanguard Pension 
plan. The transfer form he completed contained the wrong scheme reference number and an 
estimated value at that time of £516,000.
Vanguard electronically requested the transfer from the transferring provider on 27 February 
2020. The following day, the transferring provider confirmed that the scheme reference 
number was wrong. So it couldnt locate the client.
A secure message was sent to Mr G on 3 March 2020. The next day he provided the correct 
scheme reference number. Vanguard confirmed that this was passed to their transfer team 
but not picked up by them.
On 19 March 2020, Mr G requested an update on his transfer. At this point Vanguard 
identified the error and said that theyd escalated the transfer internally. Mr G expressed his 
dis-satisfaction that the transfer had been requested on 4 March 2020 but hadnt been 
actioned yet.
On 6 April 2020, Vanguard resubmitted the transfer request with the correct scheme 
reference number. The next day, the transferring provider requested an up-to-date valuation.  
A secure message was sent to Mr G. He confirmed the estimated value was £406,700 at this 
time.
On 13 April 2020, Vanguard requested a transfer from the transferring provider. The request 
contained both the correct scheme reference number and the up-to-date valuation. The 
transferring provider transferred the funds on 28 April 2020. The transfer settled on 29 April 
2020.
Mr G wasnt happy with the transfer process. He felt that the delay Vanguard had caused 
had led to a financial loss for him. So he complained to them.
Vanguard upheld his complaint. They said that thered been an internal breakdown in 
communication on 4 March 2020, which had caused his pension transfer submission to the 
transferring provider to be delayed. But they said that Mr G had remained invested with the 
transferring provider until his transfer was resubmitted on 13 April 2020. At this point the 
transferring provider had sold his investments and transferred the cash across to Vanguard. 
They said that the transferred funds were received on the 29 April 2020 and that the money 
was invested the next available working day in line with his transfer instruction.
They said that there was no delay in investing the funds once theyd been received. So they 
declined to pay compensation for any loss Mr G mayve suffered due to market movement 
while his funds were still invested with the transferring provider. Nor would they compensate 
him for the period during which he was out of the market while the cash was sent to them. 
But they accepted that the transfer hadnt worked perfectly. And offered £200 compensation 
as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. To put things right, she felt that Vanguard should put 
Mr G as close as possible to the position he wouldve been in if theyd taken timely action. 
She asked Vanguard to calculate the Notional Value of the transferred funds as if the 
transfer had occurred on 23 March 2020.
Vanguard carried out the calculations our investigator recommended. But they used 24 
March 2020 as the settlement date, not 23 March 2020. Mr G rejected Vanguards 
calculations. He noted how important the calculation date was. He noted that our investigator 
had confirmed on a call with him that his funds would be invested on the 23 March 2020. He 
felt that the 23 March 2020 was an arbitrary date of her choice and that any earlier date 
wouldve been more beneficial to him. 
Our investigator apologised for incorrectly stating that the 23 March 2020 wouldve been the 
date the funds were invested. Shed checked the dates for the calculation again and was 
satisfied that 24 March 2020 was the correct date to use. She explained that it would be 
unlikely for Vanguard to have invested the funds on the same day it received them. She said 
she couldnt ask Vanguard to re-run the calculations as she was satisfied with what theyd 
provided. 
Mr G agreed that none of us can know exactly what wouldve happened. But he said that just 
because Vanguard took 12 days to action the transfer in April 2020 that doesnt mean that it 
wouldve definitely taken 12 days if itd happened in March 2020. He suggested that we ask 
Vanguard to look at what the outcome wouldve been if theyd taken between 10 and 15 
days to action the transfer. He suggested we then take an average fund value of those 5 
days to arrive at a fair outcome.
Mr G also felt he should be compensated for the time hes spent on his complaint. 
As Mr G was unhappy with the investigators proposed outcome, his complaint has come to 
be for a review.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 September 2021. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time. 
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
I dont need to decide here whether something has gone wrong. Vanguard have accepted that although they passed Mr Gs transfer request on to their transfer team, it wasnt picked 
up by them.
So whats left for me to decide is how we should calculate whether or not that mistake has 
caused Mr G to suffer a financial loss. And therefore what Vanguard should do to put things 
right.
I have no way of knowing exactly when Mr Gs funds wouldve completed their transfer into 
Vanguard had there been no delay in March 2020. I dont know how long it wouldve taken 
Mr G to provide the updated fund value that wouldve been required. Or how long Vanguard 
wouldve taken - the time taken for this process isnt clearly defined. But the date the transfer 
wouldve taken place is critical in determining the compensation  if any - that should be paid 
to Mr G.
Financial markets had been volatile since before his initial transfer request on 26 February 
2020. Daily market movements were often extreme. So I understand why Mr G has asked 
for further calculations to be performed and then averaged.
But I dont accept that it would be reasonable to take an average value over a period of five 
days. This couldnt have happened in reality if the transfer had gone ahead in March 2020. I 
think the best estimate I have about how long the transfer process wouldve taken from start 
to finish would be the time that was actually taken a few weeks later. I agree with Mr G that 
the 12 days it took to carry out the April 2020 transfer doesnt mean  definitively  that a 
March 2020 transfer wouldve taken 12 days. But I dont agree that the date chosen by our 
investigator was arbitrary. I consider that it was worked out based on the time the actual 
transfer process took. And that this is the best basis I have to assess how long the transfer 
process wouldve taken had it gone through without delay. 
Mr G had provided the correct reference number details on 3 March 2020. So I would expect 
a new request for the transfer to have been made the next working day.
The transferring business needed an up-to-date valuation to be provided. I would expect Mr 
G to have provided that in the same time frame that he provided the update in April 2020, 
that is on 4 March 2020. And if that valuation had been confirmed on the same day, as it did 
in April 2020, I would expect it to have been confirmed to the transferring business on 5 
March 2020.
The transferring business actually received the completely correct transfer request on 13 
April 2020. And Vanguard received the transferred funds 12 working days later on 29 April 
2020. As this seems to be a reasonable time frame for the process, Im going to use the 
same period of time for the correction. I acknowledge that Mr G doesnt agree that this is fair. 
He would prefer me to use an averaging period. But that couldnt have happened if thered 
been no delay to the transfer process. So Im not persuaded its fair to use an averaging 
period to calculate any compensation for the delay.
It we take the start of the transfer process as 5 March 2020, and allow 12 working days for 
the process, Vanguard shouldve received the transferred funds on 23 March 2020. At this 
point, they wouldnt have been invested in line with Mr Gs investment instructions. I would 
expect the transferred funds to be correctly invested the following working day, which is 24 
March 2020.
So I agree with our investigator that the correct date for Vanguard to use when calculating 
any compensation due to Mr G is 24 March 2020. I acknowledge that Mr G is unhappy with 
this outcome. And that he feels that using this date is unfair. Hes noted that the date we 
recommend is used is extremely important due to the market volatility at that time. And he said that he wouldve avoided this volatility if Vanguard had carried out his transfer without 
delay. I agree that the date we recommend is used is important. But from what Ive seen, 
had the process worked without delay, he wouldnt have avoided the market volatility. His 
transfer wouldve completed on 24 March 2020 when the markets were already volatile. 
Theyd been volatile since before his initial transfer request. 
Its extremely unfortunate that the market was so volatile during the time Mr G was arranging 
his transfer. From what Ive seen, the transfer wouldve fully completed with the investment 
of the transferred funds on 24 March 2020. I can see that our investigator mistakenly 
referred to 23 March 2020 as being the correct date, but that isnt the case. So I cant agree 
that Vanguard have tried to massage the dates in order to disadvantage Mr G. 
However, I consider that reconstruction is a better redress route when we know what actual 
investments wouldve applied. So Ive outlined below my intended route for redress in this 
case. 
I cant agree that Mr G should be compensated for the time hes spent on this matter. This 
service doesnt as a rule compensate people for the time they take pursuing a complaint. 
In terms of compensation, Vanguard has paid Mr G £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
by the delay. Based on everything Ive seen, and the individual impact this is likely to have 
had on Mr G, I consider this to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the delays hadnt been incurred.
Its not possible to say precisely what he would have happened. But Im satisfied that what 
Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given the circumstances 
What should Vanguard do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, I intend to ask Vanguard to:
Reconstruct Mr Gs policy to reflect the earlier date of settlement  24 March 2020. This 
must take account of the proportionately earlier disinvestment date from the previous 
provider, and then reinvestment with Vanguard on 24 March 2020. Vanguard will need to 
approach the other provider to find out the value of the funds which wouldve been 
transferred, and then use this value to determine whether, if reinvested on 24 March 2020, 
Mr Gs policy value would, at the date of any final decision, have been higher.
If it would have been higher, Vanguard should make a payment to ensure that the policy has 
the correct higher value, using any available tax relief and taking into account the effect of 
charges on that payment.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Vanguard is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G wouldve been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. I 
have assumed that Mr G will be a basic rate taxpayer, and so the notional deduction should 
be 15%.
Any payment due should be made within 28 days of Vanguard being notified of Mr Gs 
acceptance of any final decision, if it remains the same. If it is paid later than this, Vanguard 
should add simple interest at the rate of 8% pa to the loss amount from the date of any final 
decision to the date of payment.
Response to my provisional decision
Vanguard said theyd taken on board my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr G also said he no further points to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr G fairly, I require Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (trading as 
Vanguard) to:
Reconstruct Mr Gs policy to reflect the earlier date of settlement  24 March 2020. This 
must take account of the proportionately earlier disinvestment date from the previous 
provider, and then reinvestment with Vanguard on 24 March 2020. Vanguard will need to 
approach the other provider to find out the value of the funds which wouldve been 
transferred, and then use this value to determine whether, if reinvested on 24 March 2020, 
Mr Gs policy value would, at the date of my final decision, have been higher.
If it would have been higher, Vanguard should make a payment to ensure that the policy has 
the correct higher value, using any available tax relief and taking into account the effect of 
charges on that payment.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Vanguard is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mr G wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. I have assumed that Mr G will be a basic rate 
taxpayer, and so the notional deduction should be 15%.
Any payment due should be made within 28 days of Vanguard being notified of Mr Gs 
acceptance of my final decision. If it is paid later than this, Vanguard should add simple 
interest at the rate of 8% pa to the loss amount from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (trading as Vanguard) should pay 
the amount calculated as set out in the Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman