DRN-3654340
The complaint
Mr W says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has treated him unfairly in relation 
to a transaction on his credit card which paid for a flight instrument for an aeroplane.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr W used his Virgin credit card to purchase a flight instrument from a 
merchant in the UK (which was manufactured in the USA). Towards the end of 2020 Mr W 
realised the part didnt work well in cold weather. So he spoke to the merchant and returned 
the part in the first few days of December 2020. He didnt get the replacement part until the 
middle of February 2021. He felt that this was unreasonably long, so he complained. But 
didnt get any further with the merchant so he complained to Virgin.
Virgin considered the matter but said it couldnt do anymore and wasnt going to refund Mr 
W. It said the replacement part remedied the issue and so it didnt have any liability under 
S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But Mr W feels that this delay has cost him 
substantial sums including hanger costs, lost income, loss in relation to warranty and postal 
costs.
Mr W brought his complaint to this Service and our Investigator felt that Virgin didnt have 
more to do and didnt owe him any money. Since that time Virgin have said that it will pay 
the postage cost incurred (£11.80) as a gesture of goodwill. Mr W remained unhappy and 
feels hes owed thousands in terms of costs and lost revenue and so this complaint came to 
me for a decision.
In July I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Virgin has accepted 
my decision. Mr W has not responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having issued a provisional decision I now provide my final decision. Mr W has not 
responded. Ive checked and it was provided to him correctly. As the deadline has passed 
and Mr W hasnt responded I now issue this final decision. And as Ive received no 
comments persuading me to change my position my decision remains unchanged. My 
reasons for my decision are as follows.
I should add that this decision is solely about Virgin and whether it treated Mr W fairly. This 
decision isnt about the merchant who isnt a party to this decision, and which isnt within this 
Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
Mr W used his Virgin credit card to pay to pay for the instrument. This means Virgin has 
certain responsibilities to Mr W which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain circumstances Section 75 
has the effect of allowing Mr W to hold Virgin liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large 
amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide 
what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which 
is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Mr Ws Virgin credit card is also part of a card scheme which is operated by the Card 
Network (not Virgin). And this card network has rules which includes giving Virgin an avenue 
for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback 
process. This scheme is not a right for consumers, but this service does consider it to be 
good practice to raise chargebacks where there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
Bearing in mind that Mr W doesnt dispute he made the transaction or that it was 
inappropriately applied to his account I dont think Virgin could have raised a chargeback at 
the time of the transaction. And Mr W didnt raise his dispute with the merchant to Virgin for 
some time. The network rules have tight timelines in which to raise disputes about goods or 
services. And considering when Mr W first raised this dispute with Virgin and the applicable 
chargeback rules Im satisfied Mr W raised the matter out of time according to the 
chargeback rules. So I dont think Mr W has lost out here.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ws claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. Having considered 
what happened here Im satisfied that DCS is in place between Mr W, Virgin, and the 
Merchant here and so if breach or misrepresentation is made out then Virgin can be held 
liable to a like claim. 
However I should add that there is a warranty provided by the manufacturer on this particular 
instrument. But Virgin isnt responsible for this because Mr W didnt pay the manufacturer, 
he paid the merchant. So DCS isnt in place with regard to the warranty provided by the 
manufacturer. So Virgin cant be held responsible for the manufacturers warranty, but it can 
be responsible for the merchants warranty.
Mr W returned the instrument and it was replaced. So it seems clear to me that the breach of 
contract has been made out and to some degree remedied through one of the remedies 
available here namely replacement. So as a breach of contract has been made out Virgin 
can be held liable potentially if the remedy provided was an insufficient remedy.
Mr W points to the reasonability of the time taken here and then points to losses he says 
hes suffered. This has been a long running dispute and I think between his representations 
to Virgin and to this service he has had fair opportunity to describe the losses he says hes 
suffered. But before I consider the reasonability of the time taken for Mr W to get his 
replacement I think it worth considering the losses Mr W points to and whether they are 
consequences of the time taken to replace the instrument or not. I have to do this because 
for Virgin to be held liable for consequential loss, causation has to be examined and made 
out. And Im not persuaded the losses Mr W points to are consequences of the time taken to 
replace the part.
Mr W points to losses in income due to the aeroplane not being able to fly. Mr W says hes a 
pilot instructor and that hed have been instructing pilots during the time in question. Our investigator asked him for evidence of the bookings for such instruction he had during the 
time in question. Mr W provided no evidence of bookings during the time in question. So Im 
not persuaded hes lost anything here because hes not provided evidence of the bookings 
he had to cancel due to the missing instrument.
I should add that during December 2020 the area in which Mr W lives was in partial 
lockdown (the tier system) due to the Coronavirus Pandemic from the day before he 
returned the instrument. I should add that the covid infection risk, not only in that area but 
across the UK, grew steadily until a total lockdown was again introduced during the period in 
question. During this time most businesses (except for those deemed essential) werent 
allowed to operate at all. And Ive not seen any evidence of Mr Ws covid secure operating 
processes whilst in the tier system either.
So for the reasons of the covid pandemic and Mr W not being able to provide any evidence 
of any bookings during this time Im currently minded that Mr W hasnt demonstrated the 
required causation for Virgin to be held liable under a like claim for the loss of use of his 
aeroplane.
He points to the instructional services he provided at the same time the preceding year. But 
clearly this is not a like for like comparison. Between December 2019 and February 2020 
there were no restrictions due to the covid pandemic because there were negligible cases of 
covid in the UK at that time. So I dont think this evidence is reliable considering the 
exceptional circumstances posed by the pandemic.
Mr W points to the hanger costs he incurred during this time. But hed have had to pay these 
costs whether he was flying or not. These costs were due to agreements in place at the time 
and not due to the delay in the instruments delivery.
Mr W points to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 with regard to that Acts requirement for such 
remedys to be provided within a reasonable time. But Mr W isnt a consumer. In his 
complaint form to this service he specifically states hes acting as a sole proprietor of a 
business which he names and gives the annual turnover for. Mr W makes clear that at least 
part of his claim is in relation to lost income to his business due to the delay. But the 
Consumer Rights Act Part One Chapter One Section Two specifically defines the relevant 
term. It says:
Consumer means an individual acting for purposes that are wholly or mainly outside 
that individuals trade, business, craft or profession.
So clearly I cannot apply the Consumer Rights Act 2015 here as Mr W is acting as and on 
behalf of his micro-enterprise and not as a consumer. And the surrounding and or 
underpinning legislation doesnt have the same requirement for remedys to be provided 
within a reasonable time.
I should also add that the delay in the merchant dealing with the instrument was due to the 
changing of premises. I must also bear in mind that the period in question was during a 
period of tightening restrictions and moving into full lockdown. The part also was sent to the 
United States of America. So even though the reasonable period for remedy clause of the 
Consumer Rights Act doesnt apply Im not even persuaded that in the circumstances it was 
sufficiently unreasonable to warrant further remedy.
Virgin have offered Mr W the cost of the postage as a gesture of goodwill. But the 
requirement to not bear any cost only applies to consumers under the Consumer Rights Act 
which Ive described doesnt apply here. So Virgin isnt obliged to pay it.Mr W also originally wanted a significant payment in regard to the stress he says hes 
suffered. Firstly he can only receive what he would under a like claim against the merchant 
in court, namely damages. There is no obligation for stress, distress, or inconvenience under 
Section 75. Furthermore Im not necessarily persuaded that any stress suffered was solely 
because of the time taken to deliver this instrument. I think it likely that any stress suffered 
would have been to do, at least in part, due to tightening restrictions and then full lockdown 
due to the pandemic.
And lastly Mr W does have an obligation to mitigate his losses. So far Ive not seen any 
evidence of this. I can see in mid-January 2021 Mr W was put on notice that there were 
reasons for the instrument not having been replaced or repaired and that it would take some 
time to do so. So Id expect him to have taken steps to mitigate his losses at that point. But I 
also appreciate that when he was told this the UK had already gone into full lockdown and 
as such it is likely he couldnt lawfully earn income from his micro-enterprise anyway.
Mr W has claimed loss for the cost of the warranty. As Ive described Virgin isnt responsible 
for the manufacturers warranty. The merchant provided a twelve-month warranty which Mr 
W has had use of. And his instrument was repaired. So I dont see any loss in respect of that 
which Virgin should remedy.
So for all the reasons above and considering Ive had no persuasive comments from either 
party in reply to my provisional decision Ive decided that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be 
successful. Hes not acting as a consumer here so doesnt get the benefit of protection under 
the Consumer Rights Act and Im not persuaded that Virgin has treated him unfairly by not 
paying him for the losses he says hes suffered due to the time taken to deliver the 
instrument. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to not uphold this complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money. It has nothing further to do in regard to this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman