DRN-3926397
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund two transactions he says 
he didnt make.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr M contacted Santander to report two transactions that he didnt 
recognise. He told Santander that he had been on a night out and thought that someone 
may have taken advantage of the situation. Santander didnt refund the money. It said that 
the transactions had been carried out using his genuine card and personal identification 
number (PIN) and it couldnt see how anyone else had access to these details. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response so brought his complaint to this service. He thought 
that Santander should have done more to stop the transactions from leaving his account and 
said that the customer service provided fell short of what he expected. One of our 
investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
it was more likely than not that Mr M had authorised the payments as she couldnt see how 
someone else had known Mr Ms PIN. 
As Mr M was still unhappy, he asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for 
review, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised a number of points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive 
considered everything he has said but dont need to comment on everything to reach, what I 
think, is a fair outcome.
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place at this time are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (Santander) must 
show the transaction was authenticated. Santander has provided evidence to show that Mr 
Ms genuine card with its chip and the correct PIN, were used. So, the disputed payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important, because 
account holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and generally 
speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr M made the disputed 
transactions himself or authorised them to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask 
Santander to refund them. 
Therefore, the key consideration for me, is whether I think its likely Mr M made the 
transactions himself (or allowed someone to do them on his behalf) or whether it was likely 
done by someone else without his knowledge  and by extension, whether its therefore fair 
for Santander to hold him liable for the payments. 
As mentioned, the banking log shows the genuine card was used and the card chip was 
read, which confirms the physical presence of the card. The PIN was also correctly inputted, 
with no errors, so whoever made the payments needed the card and knowledge of the PIN 
number. 
Having reviewed the submissions from Santander, I can see that Mr M told it that his phone 
and wallet were taken from him for a period of time while he was out and believes the 
transactions were made then but doesnt understand how someone else would know his PIN 
number. He said he had not written down his PIN anywhere or remember disclosing it to 
anyone either before or during the disputed transactions. I therefore cannot see how 
someone else would have known his PIN and used his card fraudulently. 
I have also considered whether its possible that someone could have seen him inputting his 
PIN earlier in the evening, such as previous transactions or ATM withdrawals, but Santander 
have shown that the last time the PIN was used was a week earlier, so I dont think this is 
likely.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that Santander should have done more to stop the transactions 
from leaving his account. However, as the transactions were made using his genuine card 
and his PIN was used to authenticate the transactions, I wouldnt expect Santander to block 
them. Mr M also commented that he didnt feel that the customer service was to the 
expected standard, however, I havent found anything that I would consider poor service. 
Overall having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more 
likely than not that Mr M made the transactions himself. I realise that this is not the outcome 
Mr M was hoping for but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here. This 
means that Mr M can be held responsible for them. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably 
require Santander to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman