DRN-3670419
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) failed to 
action a payment change date on his credit card with them, which later led to other 
consequences. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mr G took out a credit card with Virgin Money to take advantage of a 
promotional 0% interest rate. Mr G setup a direct debit to pay £300, towards the outstanding 
balance on his Virgin Money credit card. The direct debit was set to come out on the 24th of 
each month. As this was a day before Mr G said he gets paid, he decided to change this 
date via the Virgin Money application. Mr G said that he tried to change the payment date 
either in early November 2021, but he said this couldve been at the very end of October 
2021.  
On 24 November 2021, Virgin Money tried to collect the November monthly payment 
by direct debit, but as there were insufficient funds in Mr Gs account, the payment wasnt 
made. So Virgin Money charged Mr G a £12 failed payment fee and a £12 late payment fee. 
They also took away his 0% promotional interest rate and reported adverse information to 
his credit file. Mr G said that upon learning that the payment had failed, he used the Virgin 
Money application to cancel the direct debit and to change the payment date to the 29th. He 
said he then transferred £250 to his credit card and set up a £250 per monthly standing 
order to start from 29 December onwards. He said he is unhappy because he did try to 
change the payment date in late October or early November 2021 which he now knows 
didnt work, but he said that as soon as he became aware of the issue, he rectified the 
situation. He said that the Virgin Money application is notoriously unstable so it is not 
unreasonable to assume that the application may be at fault for why the payment date was 
not changed the first time he has actioned this. As Mr G was not happy with what happened 
he raised a complaint with Virgin Money.
 
In March 2022, Virgin Money wrote to Mr G. In this correspondence they said they only 
received a payment (£250) from Mr G on 29 November 2021, but his payment was due on 
24 November 2021. So, they explained that as the November 2021 payment wasnt made on 
time, they applied a £12 failed payment fee and a £12 late payment fee. And they didnt think 
that they acted incorrectly. They explained that as per the terms and conditions of his credit 
card, and the information on the online form, when a payment date is changed this takes 
effect starting from the next statement onwards. They said that the due date for minimum 
payment is on top of all of Mr Gs statements and, as per the terms and conditions, it is his 
responsibility to check these. They went on to explain that in line with his credit card terms 
and conditions as the minimum payment date was missed, Mr G lost the promotional offer 
on the account. Virgin Money also explained that they have to report accurately to the credit 
bureau, including any missed payments and interest. And they felt that as the missed 
payment was genuine, they were unable to remove the adverse information reported to his 
credit file.
Mr G was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint our service. He thinks that Virgin 
Money applied the terms and conditions of his credit card in an unfair way. He thinks they 
should refund him the failed payment fee, the late payment fee, and the extra interest he has 
incurred. He also thinks they should reinstate the 0% promotional interest rate and remove 
any adverse information recorded on his credit file.
Our investigator thought Virgin Money was not required to take any further action in relation 
to Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In summary, Mr Gs main complaint point is that he did try to change the payment date in 
late October or early November 2021, and he has told our service that he only found out 
later that this change didnt take effect. 
Virgin Money, on the other hand, said that Mr G didnt make the request for the payment 
change date until after 24 of November 2022, when his payment was due. 
For me to uphold Mr Gs complaint, I have to be satisfied that, on balance, Mr G did attempt 
to change his payment due date before 24 November 2021, and that the change of the 
payment date was confirmed to him.    
Ive considered the information provided from both sides when deciding what I think most 
likely has happened. Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the 
balance of probabilities  which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened 
based on the evidence available and the surrounding circumstances. And based on all the 
evidence available to me, I think most likely Mr G changed his credit card payment due date, 
and was notified of the change being successful, only after 24 November 2021. 
From the Virgin Money system notes, I can see that it was only on 30 November 2021, that 
Mr Gs payment cycle was amended, and a confirmation letter of his new payment date was 
sent to him at that time. I know Mr G thinks that Virgin Moneys application is notoriously 
unstable, so it is not unreasonable to assume that the application may be at fault for why the 
payment date was not changed in late October or early November 2021. But Ive not seen 
any evidence that show that this has happened in his situation, and also, Mr G told our 
service that he doesnt recall Virgin Money application notifying him that the payment would 
be effective from the next statement date. In fact, he told our service that he doesnt even 
recall the application confirming that the date has been changed at all. So, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for him to query this with Virgin Money before 24 of November 2021, 
especially as his November 2021 statement was still showing his payment due date as 24 
November 2021. Overall, taking all the circumstances of this complaint into consideration, I cant say that 
Virgin Money is required to take any further action. I think the payment due date was, most 
likely, only changed after 24 November 2021, and I think, most likely, it was after this date 
that this payment due date change was confirmed to Mr G. So, I think it is reasonable for 
Virgin Money to report the November 2021 payment as late on Mr Gs credit file, because 
Virgin Money have a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit reference 
agencies. I also think that it was reasonable for them to take away the 0% promotional 
interest rate, and to charge Mr G the failed payment fee and the late payment fee, as this is 
in line with the terms and conditions of his credit card. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr G for the difficulties that he had experienced, but taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr G has been treated unfairly. 
And I think Virgin Money are not required to take any further action in relation to his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman