DRN-1556570
The complaint
Mr I complained about CIS General Insurance Limited s handling of a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr I was involved in an accident. He said that the other driver (the third party) had caused 
the accident deliberately to make a fraudulent claim. He said that CIS didnt do enough to 
investigate the claim and prevent it being treated as a fault claim against him when his policy 
came up for renewal and he felt that made his premium go up. 
He was also unhappy that CIS cancelled his insurance, didnt fix his cars accident damage, 
and didnt investigate his complaint properly. He said this caused him stress and financial 
expense and he had to sell his car to pay off the finance on it. 
When CIS replied to his complaints, they hadnt made a final decision on liability, so they 
treated the open disputed claim as a fault one, in line with industry practice. They said that 
his insurance lapsed because he didnt pay the first renewal premium, and that he hadnt 
asked them to fix his car. But they accepted they hadnt addressed his complaint very well 
and offered him compensation of £75 for that.
The investigator thought that CIS had acted reasonably, other than as regards the complaint 
but that the compensation they offered for that was fair. Mr I didnt agree and so I have been 
asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, as this is a matter for the courts. 
Instead, we investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with 
their policy terms and conditions, when they decide who was responsible. 
And, as the investigator explained, we can only look at CISs actions to the date of their final 
responses on the matters, the latest of which was 24 October 2019. By then CIS hadnt 
made a final decision about who was responsible for the accident, so the claim remained 
open and disputed. Later CIS did accept liability but, again as the investigator advised Mr I, 
for us to look at that hed have to complain to CIS about that and give them the opportunity 
to respond. He could then come back to us if he was not happy with the outcome.
Liability not decided by renewal 
CIS hadnt made a final decision on liability when his policy came up for renewal. Mr I 
thought that the facts of the accident were clear, so liability should have been obvious to 
CIS. So he also thought that their failure to agree with him by then meant that they didnt 
believe him and werent properly defending his interests.
I can see from CIS file notes and hear from the recordings of the telephone conversations 
Mr I has sent us that CIS did take seriously his claim that the third party was making a 
fraudulent claim. But when liability is in dispute an insurer has an obligation to deal with a 
third-party claim, investigate both parties accounts and look at the evidence overall before 
deciding. And I think that CIS were doing that, and they were not taking unreasonably long to 
do it.
The accident took place in late June 2019. By late October CIS had reviewed all the 
evidence Mr I had sent them, had an independent engineer inspect and report on his cars 
damage, and instructed lawyers to defend the third partys claim, all with a view to deciding 
about liability. They were just waiting for an independent engineers report on the damage to 
the third-party car. So theyd done what we would expect of them by then, within a 
reasonable timeframe. Its normal where liability is disputed for matters to take longer, and I 
see that CIS did explain that to Mr I in the telephone calls. Its also standard practice for a 
disputed liability claim to be treated as a fault claim while it remains open. And we dont think 
its unreasonable for an insurer to take such a claim into account in assessing risk, which 
impacts a renewal premium. But that is only one of the factors that an insurer may consider 
in setting a premium, and I see that CIS did explain that to Mr I. So I dont think they did 
anything wrong there. 
Cancelled his policy
Mr I was unhappy that theyd cancelled his policy. But CIS said they hadnt cancelled it and 
instead it had lapsed because he didnt pay the first premium which was due on his policys 
renewal. They said they tried to take it from his account but couldnt do so. So they felt 
theyd followed the correct process. 
Mr I said he still had an active direct debit set up to pay the premium, but he hasnt shown us 
persuasive evidence that he was able to pay the premium at that time.  He also thought that 
CIS should have told him earlier that his policy had lapsed, and not risk him driving without 
insurance. CIS said they had sent him a letter about it, to his home address. But Mr I had 
moved and not told CIS his new address, so I dont hold CIS to blame for that. 
Didnt repair car 
Mr I said that CIS didnt repair his car despite his repeated requests and despite them having 
an independent engineers report showing the estimated repair costs. He sent us call 
recordings which he says show that he asked CIS to repair his car. He said that he also told 
CIS lawyers that he wanted his car repaired. This service cant look at actions of a law firm 
as thats not in our jurisdiction, and Mr I would have to complain to them direct. 
But having listened to the call recordings Mr I sent us, I dont think they show that he asked 
CIS to repair his car. On one of the calls, CIS agent asked him if he wanted them to repair 
the car, but he didnt comment. Its clear that his focus was very much on liability. Mr I 
thought that he shouldnt have had to ask CIS to repair his car, and they should have known 
to do that. But the call recording shows that CIS checked with him if he wanted them to 
repair his car and he didnt confirm that, so I dont think CIS acted unreasonably. I also think 
that it was Mr Is choice to sell his car. 
 
Didnt investigate complaint properly 
CIS accepted that they hadnt recorded all his complaint points at first and offered him 
compensation of £75 in recognition of that. I think that does reasonably reflect his 
inconvenience there.
I can see that Mr I felt very strongly that the third party was liable, and he felt very frustrated 
about the situation. But I think that CIS were fair and reasonable in their actions. They did 
what they were required to do under the policy and so I dont ask them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
