DRN-2855920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Morgans Ltd mis-sold them a decreasing term assurance policy.
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs H received advice from Morgans about remortgaging. Mr and Mrs H 
have said they were looking to reduce their outgoings at the time. Following advice, Morgans 
recommended an interest-only mortgage which reduced their mortgage monthly payments 
from around £700 per month to around £361.
Alongside mortgage advice, Morgans recommended Mr and Mrs H take out life cover. It 
recommended a decreasing term assurance policy which had the same term as their 
mortgage. The sum assured started at the mortgage amount but would decrease each year. 
Mr and Mrs H complained. They said theyve recently found out that their policy wouldnt pay 
off their mortgage had they passed away as the mortgage remained on an interest-only 
basis. They said they were experiencing financial hardship at the time so wouldnt have paid 
for a policy that they felt they didnt need. They also explained they always intended to sell 
the house if they needed to repay the mortgage.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 May 2021. I explained that whilst I didnt think Morgans 
had given suitable advice, I didnt think Mr and Mrs H had lost out as a result so I didnt 
intend to ask Morgans to do anything to put things right. The reasons for this are set out in 
the provisional decision, the relevant extract is as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator. Whilst I think Morgans
gave unsuitable advice, I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out financially as a result. Ill
explain why.
Its clear to me Mr and Mrs H wanted to reduce their mortgage outgoings. And the advice
they received about their mortgage allowed them to do this. They took an interest-only
mortgage which left them with an additional £350 per month on top of their existing
disposable income. Its noted that Mr and Mrs H wished to stay in their property as Mrs H
had converted part of the home into her business and was going to continue working. So, I
dont think it was unsuitable for Morgans to recommend they take life assurance to ensure
the mortgage was repaid if one of them passed away.
However, the policy Morgans recommended wasnt suitable for the mortgage Mr and Mrs H
were getting. Morgans notes reflect that Mr and Mrs H intended to transfer their mortgage to
a repayment mortgage in the future but Ive not seen evidence that this happened. And, as
Morgans will be aware, any remortgage would be subject to an affordability assessment.
Theres no guarantee that 12 months later, Mr and Mrs H would be approved for a
repayment mortgage or that they wouldve taken one. On this basis, it wasnt suitable to
recommend a life policy to cover a decreasing mortgage as Morgans was making future
assumptions, rather than recommending a suitable policy for Mr and Mrs H at the time of
providing the advice  which is what Morgans had a duty to do.
Mr and Mrs H were taking out a new interest-only mortgage. The suitable advice for a life
policy here wouldve been to recommend a level term assurance policy to match the amount
and term of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt have taken this out if it had been
offered as it was a higher cost  around £75 per month rather than £48 per month for the
decreasing term. Ive considered this carefully, and I think its likely Mr and Mrs H wouldve
taken a level term policy had they been advised to do so.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs priorities were to reduce their mortgage costs, and this was
achieved through remortgaging. This doubled their disposable income. Ive also noted that
Mrs H ran her business from home, and they had both said they werent ready to stop
working. So, I think it was important for them to be able to stay in their home if one of them
passed away. I can see the level term policy wouldve been more expensive by around £28
per month. But Ive not seen anything to suggest this increase wasnt affordable for them.
Ive noted their comments that they were suffering from financial hardship at the time, but
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that after remortgaging they wouldnt have been able
to afford the additional premium for the right level of cover. So, I think its likely that had this
policy been recommended as being suitable for them, Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken it out.
Mr and Mrs H have told us theyre in the process of selling their home to repay their interest-
only mortgage, as they had planned. I also note that the life cover is set to end in around
eight months time. Its clear that Mr and Mrs H no longer have a need for cover, but I do
think they wouldve taken life cover out had Morgans made a suitable recommendation. As
this cover wouldve been more expensive than what they have been paying, and Mr and Mrs
H have so far not needed to make a claim, I cant see they have lost out financially as a
result of Morgans unsuitable advice. So, I wont be asking Morgans to do anything to put
this right.
We didnt receive any additional comments or response from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded or given me any other information to consider, Ive reached 
the same outcome as set out in my provisional decision, an extract of which is above and 
forms part of this decision.
Whilst I dont think the advice Morgans gave Mr and Mrs H - to take out a decreasing term 
assurance policy with an interest-only mortgage - was suitable, I dont think Mr and Mrs H 
have lost out because of this. This is because I think they wouldve taken a different, more 
expensive policy. As no claim has been made on the policy, and the policy is almost ended 
with Mr and Mrs H now selling their house, I cant see that Mr and Mrs H have been 
financially disadvantaged by this. So, I wont be asking Morgans to do anything to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Morgans Ltd doesnt need to do anything to put things 
right in this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman