DRN-3438713
The complaint
Mr R complains Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim for malicious damage 
against his Residential Landlord Insurance policy. 
Mr R thinks the claim should be met. 
What happened
Mr R reported a malicious damage claim to Great Lakes in 2021. He says the tenant vacated 
and left the property in a poor condition. He also says he reported the incident to the police. 
Great Lakes requested Mr R pays an additional premium as they say he failed to disclose he 
hadnt carried out background checks on the tenant before signing the agreement. Mr R paid 
this, and the claim progressed. 
Mr R provided Great Lakes with a repair invoice totalling approximately £16,000. Great 
Lakes say the policy limit for malicious damage is £5,000. 
In any event, Great Lakes later declined the claim and referred to the policy terms. They say 
the photos of damage and information Mr R provided shows damage occurred due to wear 
and tear, and neglect by the tenant, rather than any malicious damage. Mr R didnt agree 
and complained. 
Great Lakes responded to the complaint maintaining their position. They say Mr R had 
accidental damage cover which could be considered, but they didnt agree to pay the 
malicious damage claim. Mr R remained unhappy and approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. Whilst she 
didnt agree Mr R had demonstrated malicious damage occurred, she felt Great Lakes 
unfairly asked Mr R to pay an additional premium. So, she recommended they refund this 
amount. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Malicious damage claim decision 
My starting point here is the damage. The photos Mr R provided show his property in a poor 
condition which is evident within several areas of the property. The photos show marks and 
chips to the door and walls, the poor condition of the kitchen and bathroom, and the flooring 
has lifted in parts and appears stained, amongst other things. 
I can appreciate why Mr R strongly feels the cause of damage was malicious given the 
condition he found the property to be in. However, the damage Ive highlighted above, Id 
generally attribute to wear and tear, or possibly neglect. But neglect isnt the same as 
malicious damage and would be better dealt with between the parties involved. I say this 
because, for example, the marks on the walls and doors, and the condition of the kitchen, 
appear more likely to have occurred over time, as opposed to someone (in this case, the 
tenant) deliberately causing this damage to harm Mr R. The kitchen is evidently in a poor 
condition, but in my view, it appears to be due to neglect, and the tenants failure to take lack 
of proper care as a landlord would reasonably expect, rather than malicious damage. 
Great Lakes say Mr R accepted the tenant a few years prior to reporting the claim. And the 
selection of the tenant was based on recommendations hed received at that time. Mr R 
hasnt provided any strong supporting evidence that demonstrates why the tenant would 
have wanted to cause malicious damage to his property to deliberately cause him harm. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R as neither party disputes his property was left in a poor 
condition. I appreciate this would have been a frustrating and upsetting time for him. But I 
must decide whether I find Great Lakes acted unfairly when declining the claim for malicious 
damage under the policy. And for the reasons Ive given above, I havent been persuaded 
they did. 
I note Mr R has accidental damage cover. From the information available, it doesnt appear 
he has pursued this policy benefit with Great Lakes. Should Mr R wish to raise a claim under 
this section of the policy, Great Lakes will need to consider this in line with the relevant 
policy terms. They should also consider whether its reasonable to apply more than one 
policy excess given the extent of the damage, when the damage likely occurred, and the 
separate locations of where damage was found inside the property.  
The additional premium
The policy schedule with the issue date of October 2020 asks about background checks 
carried out by Mr R on the tenant. Mr R answered, I disagree and No checks to the 
statements that ask whether checks (and if so, what checks) were carried out on the 
prospective tenants before the tenancy agreement was signed. So, its unclear why Great 
Lakes requested Mr R pays and additional premium, as the questions appear to have been 
answered correctly. 
It appears Great Lakes made an administrative error which gave the impression Mr R 
disclosed he had carried out background checks on the tenant, and therefore answered the 
questions regarding the same incorrectly. However, that wasnt the case, and therefore it 
wasnt fair for Great Lakes to require Mr R to pay an additional premium of £28.41. So, they 
must refund this amount to him. 
Mr R also says Great Lakes caused unnecessary delays during the claim process, including 
erroneously requesting he pays an additional premium. He thinks Great Lakes should 
compensate him for his losses, such as the rent he lost out on during this time. 
Ive looked at the overall claim journey between the parties which started on or around 11 
October 2021 when the claim was reported. I accept there were some avoidable delays, 
particularly as we know Great Lakes took time considering whether an additional premium 
should be paid in error, which somewhat slowed things down. But the claim decision was 
communicated to Mr R by email on 23 November 2021. 
So, whilst I do appreciate things could have been handled better, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me Mr R lost out as a result and, but for these short delays, he would have received rent. My understanding is the property was vacant during the time the claim was 
running. I find the time between Mr R reporting the claim to receiving a decision on it overall 
to be reasonable. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with Great Lakes  can do for him. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes should not have required Mr R to pay an additional premium, so they must 
refund him £28.41 in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold it. I now require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr R £28.41. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman