DRN-3328998
The complaint
Miss R complains about British Gas Services Limiteds (British Gas) handling of claims she 
made under her HomeCare policy. 
What happened
In June 2020, Miss R found a leak coming through though the kitchen ceiling. British Gas 
arranged for a plumber to attend and said leak was coming from the bathroom tap. Miss R 
says her expensive tap removed and taken away but replaced by a cheaper one. 
Miss R says the leak continued and British Gas attended again in July 2020. This time their 
plumber identified a loose shower bowl waste pipe and tightened this. Miss R says the 
plumber declined to check underneath the bath, despite her asking him to do so. British Gas 
notes said Miss R declined the plumbers offer to carry out an inspection underneath the 
bath.
Concerned with British Gas handling of the claim, Miss R asked another company to inspect 
the bathroom. They said the bathroom waste area needed replacing and fixed this. Miss R 
asked British Gas to refund her the amount shed paid to put this right.  
In January 2021, Miss R had a replacement water pump fitted, but says she continued to 
have problems with her shower. British Gas attended and said the water pressure hadnt 
been set properly. 
Miss R complained to British Gas. It sent a final response letter on 14 May 2021. It 
responded to her concerns about the leaking bathroom tap, shower bowl and the upgraded 
shower pump. It said the faults werent related and it didnt consider it was liable for any 
damage caused. However, it sent Miss R a payment of £524.24. This amount represented 
the cost charged by a third-party plumber and £50 compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Miss R referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator said the 
terms of the policy meant British Gas wasnt responsible for the damage to Miss Rs home. 
She thought the compensation was fair in the circumstances. As Miss R didnt agree, this 
case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that for Miss R this has been a source of frustration. Shes experienced a 
number of issues at her home and had believed there was a policy in place to help put things 
right. Ive considered the issue of redecoration first. Miss R says her kitchen was damaged 
by the leaks. British Gas says the policy doesnt cover any damage. Ive considered the 
policy terms:
General exclusions
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks
Having considered these policy terms, Im satisfied its clear British Gas isnt responsible for 
covering the costs of any decorative works following the leaks. As its not responsible for the 
cost of putting this right, Im not going to ask it to reimburse Miss R any costs shes incurred 
having the kitchen redecorated. 
Ill turn now to the issues in the bathroom. British Gas has agreed to consider a Miss Rs 
claims the silicon seal it applied to the shower bowl was inadequate. Its asked for photos to 
support Miss Rs view. Im satisfied this is reasonable in the circumstances, as I cant see 
Miss R has directly contacted British Gas about this issue following the works. 
I can understand Miss Rs dissatisfaction with the tap British Gas fitted. She says its of a 
lower quality than the tap in place when she called them out. However, under the policy 
terms British Gas isnt required to replace the tap on a like-for-like basis. The policy terms 
require it to provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same 
features. Im satisfied the replacement tap met this requirement, in line with the policy 
terms. It follows, Im not going to require British Gas to make a payment here. 
I can see the waste area under the bath is a point of contradiction here. Miss R says she 
agreed for this to be accessed, British Gas said she didnt. Im mindful Miss R subsequently 
arranged for repairs to be carried out, so I dont see why she wouldnt have accepted British 
Gas offer to access underneath the bath. But I cant say for certain this offer wasnt made to 
her, or that British Gas plumber wasnt prepared to carry out the works.
In any event, Im satisfied the cash payment British Gas paid Miss R following her 
appointment of a third-party plumber was reasonable. I say this on the basis I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest the repairs carried out by British Gas were inadequate. Ive also 
considered the policy terms. These state:
Cash in lieu
We wont offer you cash instead of carrying out an annual service, repairs or 
replacements.
Ive considered Miss Rs comments about the shower pump and what she says is the 
consequential losses shes incurred as a result. In response to this, British Gas says Miss R 
shouldnt have seen an increase in her electricity bills as a response to having the pump 
upgraded. It says each of the pumps should have used the same amount of electricity. Miss 
R hasnt provided evidence of an increase in her bills and even if she had, shed need to 
persuade me that this was solely as a result of the new shower pump. On balance, Im more 
persuaded by British Gas account of how the new pump operates. 
I can see Miss R has been inconvenienced. However, Im satisfied the £50 compensation 
payment is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this considering that there are 
areas of Miss Rs complaint that British Gas isnt responsible for under the policy. I 
appreciate there have been some delays in handling the claims, but I havent seen anything 
which conclusively leads me to say the repairs carried out by British Gas were inadequate. 
Or that if they were, there was an unwillingness to put things right. Im not going to require 
British Gas to increase the compensation payment. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman