DRN-3609560
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline) gave him loans he couldnt afford to
repay.
What happened
Mr K took at least 10 home collected loans between January 2015 and January 2017. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan 
repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 06/01/2015 29/04/2015 20 £7.00
2 £200.00 14/04/2015 30/09/2015 30 £10.00
3 £100.00 28/04/2015 19/08/2015 30 £7.00
4 £200.00 29/09/2015 23/03/2016 30 £10.00
5 £200.00 13/10/2015 08/06/2015 30 £10.00
6 £200.00 22/03/2016 10/08/2016 30 £10.00
7 £200.00 21/06/2016 30/11/2016 30 £10.00
8 £300.00 09/06/2016 01/02/2017 30 £15.00
9 £200.00 29/11/2016 written off 30 £10.00
10 £300.00 31/01/2017 written off 30 £15.00
Mr K had some problems repaying his final two loans and the balances of these loans were
written off as a result of Mr K entering into a Debt Relief Order (DRO). Skyline was notified
about the order in May 2017.
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans ran at the
same time the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2  4 were running at the same
time Mr Ks commitment was £27 per week to Skyline.
Following Mr Ks complaint, Skyline issued its final response letter. Skyline concluded that it
carried out proportionate checks before advancing these loans to Mr K, and based on the
information it gathered from Mr K it was reasonable to lend.
However, it did accept that as the final two loans formed part of a DRO than this likely
indicated Mr K was having financial difficulties. Skyline offered to refund what Mr K had paid
towards these loans but as Mr K hadnt repaid enough to cover the principal which was
written off then the balance was reduced to £374.09. But as these loans were part of a DRO
Skyline wasnt requesting this balance be paid.
Unhappy with this response, Mr K referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ks complaint. She explained that she wasnt going
to consider loans 9 and 10 because Skyline had already made an offer to settle these loans.
She also didnt think it was wrong of Skyline to have advanced loan 1 to Mr K.
However, the adjudicator thought the repayment for loans 1 and 2 together represented a
too high proportion of Mr Ks declared income and she thought there was a significant risk
that Mr K wouldnt be able to meet his commitments without borrowing again.
By loan 6, the adjudicator concluded that the lending was now harmful for Mr K, so this,
and any future loans shouldnt have been provided.
Mr K responded to the adjudicators assessment to explain that hed taken more than the
loans listed in the loan table. He said hed been borrowing from Skyline since 1985.
Skyline said it agreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans 7 and 8
(in addition to maintaining its position on loans 9 and 10). But it disagreed with the outcome
for loans 1  6. In summary Skyline said:
The industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) amended the 
regulations in November 2018 and Skyline says that the adjudicator applied the 
regulations retrospectivity.
There is also no specific list of checks that a lender must carry out prior to lending 
(either before or after the change in rules in November 2018).
The amount Mr K borrowed was low and he had enough disposable income to afford 
the repayments he was committed to making.
While loans one and two overlapped, this was only for a period of two weeks.
Skyline also disagreed that further checks needed to be completed before loan 6 was 
approved it says Home Credit is used for a range of reasons including to support a 
customers lifestyle.
Mr K hasnt provided any evidence to support his complaint.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I issued my first 
provisional decision explaining why I was still intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint but for 
different reasons than the adjudicator gave. I was only intending to uphold the complaint 
about loans 6  10.   
In response to the first provisional decision Mr K provided some further information about the 
household finances at the time, having considered what Mr K said in light of his lending 
history I concluded I needed to issue a second provisional decision. 
I then proceeded to issue a second provisional decision in July 2022 outlining why I 
considered a fair and reasonable outcome was to uphold Mr Ks complaint about loans 3  
10. 
A copy of my provisional findings (from both decisions) follows this in italics and in smaller 
font and these form part of this final decision.
What I said in my first provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr K says that he has been borrowing from Skyline for a considerable period of time, from
potentially as far back as 1985. Mr K has provided some testimony around being a regular
user of these loans as well as renting several household items such televisions.The Financial Ombudsman approached Skyline to see whether it had any further information
about Mr Ks loan before January 2015. Skyline has told the Financial Ombudsman that it
only holds records of lending that occurred within the last six years.
So, it doesnt have any further information about any loans that may or may not have been
taken out prior to the 10 in the table at the start of this decision.
Mr K also hasnt been able to provide any further information about loans taken from Skyline
before the first loan in the table above. Therefore, in the absences of any further information
Ill only be considering the loans in the table at the start of the decision.
Mr K appears to agree with our adjudicators findings although he did add that he thought
hed taken more than 10 loans. So, I dont think Mr K is unhappy about the outcome in
relation to loan one, and for the avoidance of doubt I agree with the adjudicator that loan one
shouldnt be upheld. But I have kept the loan in mind when thinking about the overall lending
relationship between Skyline and Mr K.
Skyline has also accepted that something went wrong when loans 7  10 were granted, and
it offered to put things right for Mr K in line with the adjudicators recommendations.
Therefore, these loans are no longer in dispute, but for completeness Ive included what
Skyline needs to do to put things right in the putting things right section at the end of the
decision.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Skyline did anything wrong when it granted loans
2 - 6.
Skyline has said, in response to the adjudicators assessment that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has retrospectively applied the affordability rules from November 
2018. I think this may be a misreading of the rules, as while the regulations did change in
November 2018, they werent in my view significant enough to alter Skylines obligation to
carry out a proportionate check. However, for completeness Ive outlined below the
regulations at the time all of Mr Ks loans were granted.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Skyline gave Mr K all of the above loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees
had transferred from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
Firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
And the most relevant overarching principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit
providers, such as Skyline. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a
regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules in this case is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out 
what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm must 
consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which 
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial
situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking about 
affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R(1), 
a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability
to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Thinking about the regulations Ive quoted above, Skyline had to assess the lending to check
if Mr K could afford to pay back the amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It
needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Skylines checks
couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent,
the size of the repayments, and Mr Ks income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Skyline should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include:
Mr K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr K.
Skyline was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr K was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
Loan 2
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Mr Ks first loan was still running when loan two was
approved. While Mr K was committed to paying Skyline £10 per week for this loan, with the
outstanding payment due for loan one, Mr Ks total weekly commitment to Skyline was £17.
In the adjudicators view, a weekly income of around £132 was too small to support weekly
repayments of £17 when there was around £55 per week in living costs. So, in her view, the
weekly repayments were unsustainable for Mr K.
I appreciate that Skyline says while these loans did overlap it was only for a two-week
period. But when Skyline approved Mr Ks second loan it didnt know that Mr K would repay
his first loan earlier than planned. But in this case, regardless of how long loan one was due
to run for or did run for after loan two was granted, there was a period of time that Mr K was
expected to pay Skyline £17 per week for both of these loans.
I would say at this point, Skyline hasnt provided evidence of the information Mr K provided
about his income, for example what it was made up off but the final response letter does
suggest that Mr Ks income is mainly made up of benefit payments.
In addition, it also hasnt provided us with a breakdown of Mr Ks expenditure  Skyline has
just put together a spreadsheet of his declared income and his declared expenditure. So, for
example, its not clear whether the declared expenditure for each loan includes Mr Ks commitments 
that he had for other loans running at the same time and / or what his
other weekly living costs included.
Notwithstanding the above, I disagree that this loan should be upheld solely because a
significant portion of Mr Ks income was going towards repaying Skyline. I say this because
the amount Mr K was borrowing was still quite low, and although his income could be
described as modest there wasnt at this point any evidence of repayment problems.
It of course possible, that there will become a point where the amount of money a consumer
has to pay a lender each week will become unsustainable and this point will be different for
each consumer because it will depend on their individual circumstances.
But I do think, this point hadnt yet been reached in this case, even though, Mr K was
committing to spend around 18% of his declared weekly income to Skyline, which is not an
insignificant amount and in some cases maybe sufficient to have led me to conclude the loan
(and all future loans) should be upheld.
However, as this was the early stages of Mr Ks lending relationship with Skyline, I think thechecks it carried out were proportionate and showed it that Mr K would be in a position to
afford these repayments.
Therefore, Im intending to not uphold this loan.
Loan 3
The adjudicator thought this loan should be upheld for the same reasons as loan two. Loan
three was taken out on the same day loan one was repaid and Mr K borrowed the same
amount as he had done for loan one.
This has the effect of not decreasing either his total indebtedness to Skyline or his weekly
commitment, he was still required to pay it a total of £17 a week. Ive thought very carefully
about this loan, but for the same reasons as I outlined for loan two I still think it was just
about reasonable for Skyline to have relied on the information Mr K provided which showed
Skyline he could afford the loan repayments he was committed to making.
So, like loan two, Im also intending to not uphold this loan.
Loans 4 and 5
When loan 4 was approved, loans two and three were still running so Mr Ks commitment
had now increased to £27 per week. Skyline also says, that following making enquires with
Mr K, it discovered that he had around £114 per week in disposable income to be able to
afford the weekly repayments.
This disposable income was significantly larger, than Skyline had recorded for loans 1 - 3.
There could be a perfectly reasonable explanation for this, but Skyline hasnt provided one
and as Skyline hasnt provided a breakdown of the income and expenditure I cant see
where the differences are.
I think this, along with now having three loans running at the same time, ought to have
prompted Skyline to have carried out further checks before this loan was granted.
For loan five, Mr K only had one other loan running at the same time  loan four with weekly
commitments of £20. While this was less than what Mr K had to pay when loans 2  4 were
running, it was still roughly what Mr K had been committed to repaying Skyline throughout
the lending relationship.
And Mr K was retuning for a new loan, not that long after loans two and three had been
repaid, Mr K had been indebted to Skyline for 10 months and was further extended his
indebtedness. Again, and like loan four, I do think further checks needed to be carried out.
So, while Im not upholding these loans for the reasons given by the adjudicator, that still
doesnt mean I think Skyline did all it needed to do.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Skyline to have relied on what Mr K declared to it
about his income and expenditure for these loans. Even though this information suggested
Mr K had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he was committed
to making.
I dont think for these loans Skyline carried out a proportionate check. Mr K had been
continuously indebted to Skyline prior to this loan, and he was returning for further credit,
extending his indebtedness for at least another 30 weeks.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ks actual financial position to
ensure loans four and five were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such
as asking for evidence of outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Mr Ks credit
report. This mightve helped verify the information provided and revealed whether there was
any other information that Skyline mightve needed to consider about Mr Ks general
financial position.However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Skyline carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Mr K couldnt afford these loans.
Mr K hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of his bank statements or his full
credit report. So, I dont know and cant say what Skyline may have seen had it carried out
what I consider to be a proportionate check. This means, as it stands, Im also not intending
to uphold Mr Ks complaint about these loans.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Skyline shouldnt have lent loans four and five. Even considering what Mr K declared to
Skyline for his income and expenditure, these loans appeared affordable.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Mr Ks complaint about these loans.
Loan 6
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent
felt the need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for this loan because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so. Although, I accept, based on what Skyline provided this
loan wouldve looked affordable to it.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Mr K, Skyline also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Mr K.
Having looked at the overall pattern of Skylines lending history with Mr K, I agree with our
adjudicator that at this point in time, Skyline should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 6. I say this
because;
At this point Skyline ought to have realised Mr K was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr K had taken out six loans in around 14 months and he had been indebted to 
Skyline for the entire time. So, Skyline ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr K 
was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Mr Ks indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably and his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving.
By loan 6, Mr Ks weekly repayments were nearly three times the size compared to loan one. 
He started paying £7 per week but was now committed to paying £20 per week. So, Mr Ks 
weekly repayments werent deceasing which suggests that the loans werent sustainable for 
him and his borrowing hadnt decreased over the lending relationship.
Loan 6 was also one of Mr Ks largest loans to date, a further sign that his indebtedness was 
increasing rather than decreasing.
Mr K took normally was advanced new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid 
or shortly afterwards and he continued to have at least two loans running at the same time. 
Skyline ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr K, on these occasions, was 
having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial need. To me, this is 
indicative of his indebtedness not being sustainable.
I think that Mr K has lost out because Skyline provided him with loan six because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr K borrowed was likely to have had 
negative implications on him ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
Skyline has already accepted something went wrong when loans 7  10 were granted. So,
overall Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 6 - 10.What I said in the second provisional decision
Firstly, no further comments were provided by Skyline in response to the provisional decision
and Mr K didnt disagree with the findings I reached about loans 6  10. Mr Ks concerns
were about the wider financial position at the time of loans 1  5 being granted.
Therefore, I dont think there is any ongoing dispute about loans 6  10 and Im intending to
uphold those loans because they were harmful for Mr K for the same reasons as I explained
in the first provisional decision. My reasoning for doing so can be found above.
In response to the provisional decision Mr K confirmed he thought the outcome initially
reached by the adjudicator was fair and reasonable. Therefore, as the adjudicator didnt
uphold loan one, Im also not intending to revisit that loan either. Instead, this decision will
focus on whether it was reasonable for Skyline to have advanced loans 2  5.
Loan 2
When loan 2 was advanced Mr K was still making repayments towards loan 1. So, although
his repayment for loan 2 was £10 per week his actual weekly commitment was £17 per
week. In my view, Skyline had to consider an affordability check to satisfy itself that Mr K
would be in a position to make his repayments.
Based on summary of information Skyline provided the Financial Ombudsman Service it
believed that Mr K had sufficient disposable weekly income to be able to afford the
repayments.
Following the first provisional decision Skyline has provided copies of the original application
form that was completed at the time the loan was provided. The figures provided in the
application form confirms the details that the summary spreadsheet disclosed and what was
previously provided.
In addition, the application form is noted to confirm that Mrs K also contributed to the
household living costs  which, to me, does imply that she did or does have her own
independent form of income.
However, in response to the provisional decision, Mr K disclosed that his wife was also
borrowing at the same time as himself and that he was claiming benefits for himself and his
wife.
This is key information, because Mr K claiming benefits for his wife, means that in effective
there is only one pot of money available to cover all living costs and credit commitments for
both Mr and Mrs K.
If Mrs K was repaying a loan at the same time, then the disposable income would have to
take that into account. The letter sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service - providing
details of the joint claim for benefits is a few years after these loans were granted, but Ive
not seen anything to make me think that Mr K wasnt claiming benefits for Mrs K at the time.
There is only limited information about Mrs Ks loan history with Skyline that the Financial
Ombudsman Service was provided as part of her previous complaint. I can see that at the
point Mr K applied for his second loan Mrs K had recently taken a loan from Skyline at the
end of March 2015 and she also had a further loan outstanding. Overall, her weekly
commitment for these two loans came to around £35.
As part of her complaint, Mrs K also provided information about her income at the time, and
Ive seen a benefit award letter which confirms that Mr K was claiming benefit for Mrs K. This
to me suggests supports that there was one pot of money in which Mr and Mrs K needed to
repay not only Skyline but also cover all of their living costs such as food and utilities.
So, at the point, that Mr Ks second loan was approved he needed to pay £17 per week toSkyline but it is also reasonable to consider Mrs Ks payment of £35 per week to Skyline. So
as a household by the point of loan 2, there were four loans outstanding with a weekly
commitment of £52.
I also consider it reasonable, that Skyline ought to have known about the lending to Mrs K as
the agent visited Mr Ks house so its likely that it was the same agent that provided loans to
both Mr and Mrs K.
But this was just the second loan and based on the income and expenditure information
Skyline had gathered along with the payment for Mrs Ks loan I still think it was just about
reasonable for this loan to have been granted because Skyline carried out a proportionate
check which suggested the loan was affordable. So, like, my first provisional decision Ill still
intending to not uphold Mr Ks complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3 - 5
This loan was taken out the day that loan 1 was settled and Mr K was still committed to
spending £17 per week to Skyline. However, for this loan, Mr Ks income appears to have
significantly dropped, and based on what he declared to the agent (and what is recorded on
the application form) Mr K had around £21 of disposable income each week.
It is worth noting here, that even though this application form was only completed two weeks
after loan 2, this time Mrs K wasnt listed on the application as contributing towards the
household bills.
However, Mrs Ks loans were still outstanding, and as Ive said, there was only one pot of
money to cover all bills and loan repayments and it is likely the agent wouldve been aware
of this. Taking into account Mrs Ks loan repayment then Mr K didnt actually have any
disposable income left over in order to cover his loan repayments and his living costs.
In addition, taking into account the declared income  and what Skyline used to assess
affordability  the household commitment to Skyline was £52 per week, which in my view
now constituted a significant portion of the income Mr K received for the whole household.
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk Mr K wouldnt have been able to meet
the household credit commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely
Mr K wouldve been able to sustainably meet his repayments for this and any subsequent
loans.
Im therefore intending to uphold loan 3, as well as loans 4 and 5 for the same reasons.
Especially in light of the fact that Mr K continued to take new loans quickly after previous
loans had been repaid and Mrs K continued to borrow, and by the time of loan 5 was granted
as a household there were four outstanding loans that needed to be repaid out of one pot of
funds.
I also accept that for loans 4 and 5  and onwards Mr Ks income seems to have significantly
increased. But it isnt clear how this happened. Given throughout the entire time Mr K was
borrowing from Skyline he was on benefits and calming for his wife. And I know, that by April
2021, the benefit calculation shows that Mr K (and Mrs Ks income) was about £160 per
week.
As Ive said before, Ive seen nothing to make me think that their income wasnt about this at
the time  which seems to be supported by the fact that Skyline recorded Mr Ks income as
benefits on the application forms at the point these loans were granted.
Skyline says the affordability calculations included, a buffer, but I cant see based on the
figures that were provided what they were or how they were applied. For example, the
application form for loan 3 shows disposable income of £91 per month, and this is what was
reflected in the summary spreadsheet Skyline provided. So, it isnt clear how any sort of
buffer was applied.Response to the second provisional decision
The second provisional decision was emailed to both parties on 8 July 2022. Both Mr K and 
Skyline were asked to provide any further comment, information or evidence for 
consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 22 July 2022.
Mr K didnt provide any new comments or evidence for the Financial Ombudsman to 
consider. 
Skyline responded to the provisional decision with the following comments. 
Copies of the applications for the loans were provided in May 2022  which gave 
details of Mr Ks income and expenditure.
In the provisional decision it was stated when loan 4 was approved both loans 2 and 
3 were outstanding. When, in fact only three remained outstanding. 
Skyline accepted the findings in relation to loans 6  10. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K didnt provide any further comments or evidence for my consideration in response to 
the second provisional decision.  
It may help to clarify the redress. The most recent decision, was a second provisional 
decision. In the first provisional decision I recommended Skyline pay redress towards loans 
6  10  which in response to the second decision it has agreed to pay redress on. 
However, as further information was provided by Mr K in response to the first provisional 
decision, I concluded that further loans should be upheld. Therefore, I issued the second 
provisional decision explaining why more loans needed to be upheld, and this is why the 
proposed redress in the second provisional decision directed Skyline to pay compensation in 
relation to loans 3  10.  
I also accept Skyline provided copies of the application forms in May 2022 and these are 
referenced in the findings in the second provisional decision. So, Im satisfied that Ive 
considered all the information.
Ive thought about what Skyline says about loan 3, that at the time of loan 4 being granted 
only loan 3 was outstanding  and not loan 2. However, there has been contradictory 
information provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service about this. 
In the final response letter issued by Skyline, the start month for loan 4 is shown as 
September 2015  which would indicate that loan 3 been repaid as this was repaid in 
August 2015. 
However, the summary of the lending provided to us as part of Skylines initial file 
submission shows that loan 4 was granted in June 2015, and therefore loans 2 and 3 
wouldve been running concurrently. It was this document that I had used when constructing 
the lending table. 
Having looked at the application forms which have been provided by Skyline, this was 
completed (for loan 4) in September 2015. So, Ive amended the loan table at the start of this 
decision to reflect this. Therefore, when loan 4 was granted, loan 3 had been repaid in August 2015 and loan 2 was 
still running  although was repaid the day after loan 4 was advanced. So, when loan 4 was 
granted Mr Ks total weekly commitment to Skyline was £20. 
Ive thought about this in relation to the reasons I gave in the second provisional decision but 
I still think loan 4 should be upheld, because Mr K wouldve had two loans outstanding and 
at the time and Mrs K still owed Skyline money.
In addition, for the reasons Ive given in the second provisional decision there was, in effect 
one pot of money in which to service all the repayments to Skyline as well as cover the 
household living costs. 
Overall, the comments Skyline have provided in response to the second provisional decision 
havent led me to change my mind about the outcome that Im intending to reach. 
I still think Skyline shouldnt have approved Mr K with his lending from and including loan 3, 
and Ive outlined below what it needs to in order to put things right for Mr K.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Skyline should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent from loan three, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Skylines liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Skyline shouldnt have given Mr K loans 3  10.
A. Skyline should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not
including anything Skyline have already refunded.
B. Skyline should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by
Mr K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C. Skyline should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loans. If this results in Mr K 
having made overpayments then Skyline should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Skyline should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any
principal Skyline has already written-off. If this results in a surplus, then this should
be paid to Mr K. However, if there is still an outstanding balance Skyline shouldnt
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Skyline have already written-off
because the outstanding balance for loans 9 and 10 were subject to a DRO.
E. Skyline should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 3  5 from
Mr Ks credit file. The overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing for loans 6 -10 means any
information recorded about them is adverse, so Skyline should remove these loans
entirely from Mr Ks credit file. Skyline does not have to remove loans 9 and 10 from
Mr Ks credit file until the loans have been repaid, but Skyline should still remove any
adverse information recorded about them.
Mr K had a DRO granted and completed, this means the balance of loans 9 and 10 were
written off by Skyline. But given, Im upholding further loans I think its entirely fair
and reasonable for Skyline to recover any outstanding principal that it wrote off on the loans
that formed part of Mr Ks DRO. But should an outstanding balance still remain, Skyline isnt
entitled to collect any further payments from Mr K.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline to deduct tax from this interest. Skyline should
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the two provisional decisions, Im upholding 
Mr Ks complaint in part.
Skyline Direct Limited should put things right for Mr K as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman