DRN-3588518
The complaint
Mr G has complained MotoNovo Finance Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, has applied 
a fraud-related marker to his record which they wont remove.
What happened
Mr G tried to buy a car in 2020. He was rejected for car finance after initially being accepted. 
He later contacted the credit provider to query why there was a fraud-related marker in his 
name. This had been registered on CIFAS, the industry fraud database, in 2020.
MotoNovo confirmed Mr G had provided altered information in support of his credit 
application which had led to this being rejected. A marker was then applied to his record. 
Despite Mr G telling them hed not done this, MotoNovo believed theyd done nothing wrong.
Mr G brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed MotoNovo had provided adequate evidence to show theyd met the 
requirements to lodge the marker. Mr G didnt believe he was responsible for providing the 
altered information and told us of the horrible impact this had all had on him.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator wrote a detailed view on 8 July 2022. I feel no need to rerun a lot of what 
was said there.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. MotoNovo must be able to 
provide theres evidence Mr G was trying to mislead when he applied for credit in 2020.
MotoNovo was able to provide us with copies of all the supporting material Mr G provided 
when applying for credit. This included a bank statement, a salary slip and his driving 
licence.
They were also able to show theyd contacted Mr Gs bank which confirmed the bank 
statement had been altered. 
Mr G denies this was done by him. Despite many requests Mr G has been unable to provide 
copies of what he gave the credit broker in 2020 to support his credit application. He has 
been able to provide bank statements for the same account and during the same time 
period. These differ from what was provided to MotoNovo. 
Mr G has not given us permission to contact his bank ourselves. He feels  and I can 
appreciate his view  that hes being treated as the guilty party and his integrity is in 
question.
However Ive not been given any explanation how MotoNovo received bank statements that 
differ from a copy Mr G has provided to us. The income and employer information differ on 
the version provided to MotoNovo in April 2020. I appreciate Mr G has told us the credit 
broker managing his application must have done this. I doubt this is the case. The employer 
information used  run by a relative  would only really have been known to him. So I find it 
difficult to reach any conclusion other than Mr G altered this information.
Mr G has repeatedly questioned MotoNovos evidence that they didnt contact this company 
to check the information provided. I recognise he has strong feelings about this aspect, but I 
dont think it matters or has contributed to the decision Ive reached.
I have considered that the broker altered the information Mr G provided to them. But I 
believe this would have been pretty risky as thered have been a chance of Mr G being able 
to show what he actually provided when questioned. Theres no evidence this happened.
Based on the evidence MotoNovo has provided, Im satisfied they have met the required 
guidelines to lodge a marker appropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint against 
MotoNovo Finance Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman