DRN-3404183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were prevented from porting their mortgage product when, 
following a survey, National Westminster Bank Plc said that it wouldnt lend on their new 
property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with NatWest and a fixed rate mortgage product. If they 
redeemed their mortgage during the fixed rate period, they would have to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) unless they could port the mortgage product. Mr and Mrs H 
wanted to move to a new property and wanted additional lending and to port the mortgage 
product. NatWest appointed a valuer whom Mr and Mrs H say let them down on three 
occasions. The valuer did visit and reported that the property had been declined for 
mortgage security as it was outside NatWests lending policy as the roof is of a non-
traditional type, pitched design covered with a modern membrane. The report went on to 
say that the property wasnt considered to be readily mortgageable. Mr and Mrs H disagreed 
and produced two reports from different valuers including a Level 2 Survey Report and a 
report prepared on behalf of another lender which was prepared to lend on the property.
NatWest referred the issue back to its valuer, but the valuer didnt alter its position. So, Mr 
and Mrs H brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as NatWest appointed a professionally qualified surveyor and 
was entitled to rely on the opinion expressed. Mr and Mrs H disagreed saying in summary 
that they fail to see why they should be responsible for paying the ERC when it was NatWest 
that refused to lend on their property sparking the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with NatWest and a fixed rate mortgage product. The 
mortgage product could be ported, and the porting conditions are set out at section 9 of the 
Mortgage Illustration attached to the mortgage offer of 11 February 2020. The relevant 
section says:
What happens if you move house?
You have the possibility, during the period in which an early repayment charge is payable to 
port your existing mortgage product(s) to your new property subject to the following terms: -
 Your new application must meet our lending criteria current at the time you move. We will 
carry out credit checks on you, and will require a valuation of the new property, and will 
decline to port if you do not meet our criteria in force at that time. This may mean that we 
decline to lend at all on the new property or may allow you to port less than the amount you 
have applied for.
Mr and Mrs H applied to port their mortgage, but the valuation failed to meet NatWests 
lending criteria although it met the valuation of another lender and passed a survey done 
privately for Mr and Mrs H. Ive investigated this further. The issue appears to be the roofing. 
NatWest has valuation guidelines to guide its valuers as to what is and is not acceptable to 
it. The valuers say The Banks VGN provides that acceptable pitched roof construction 
types are tiles, slates, thatch or copper. The roof covering of the subject property is a 
modern membrane and outside the currently acceptable types listed and therefore outside 
lending policy  It may well be that NatWests policy differs from Mr and Mrs Hs new lender 
as to what are acceptable pitched roof construction types but according to the evidence Ive 
received of NatWests policy at the time, the modern membrane type was outside NatWests 
policy. Its not our role to decide what that policy should be as that depends on NatWests 
risk assessment and commercial judgement. But I have to consider whether it was fairly 
applied. 
But it seems to me that in this instance that NatWest has dealt with the matter fairly if it tells 
Mr and Mrs H that their ability to port depends on their new property passing a valuation and 
if that valuation is conducted within the terms of NatWests policy. It was then Mr and Mrs 
Hs choice to redeem the mortgage knowing that they couldnt port their mortgage product to 
this particular property and had to pay an ERC. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman