DRN-3447875
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the decline of a claim under her home insurance policy by her 
insurer, Ocaso SA,Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso). 
References to Ocaso in this decision include their agents who assess and handle claims.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs D noticed a leak coming from her roof. She contacted Ocaso to 
make a claim, who sent out a surveyor (L) to inspect the property. L said the tiles and 
guttering hadnt been fitted correctly  had they been, the damage wouldnt have occurred. 
Mrs D was also told that as the damage was cosmetic and appeared only to be a slipped tile, 
it wouldnt be worth making a claim (it would be more cost effective to replace the tile without 
a claim). Mrs D engaged a roofer (C) to repair the roof, which he did the following month, at 
a cost of £1,450.
However, the following month, just before the roofer repaired the roof, more water came 
through the roof. This led to the partial collapse of a kitchen ceiling, as well as damage to the 
ceilings and walls of an adjoining living room and bedroom above the kitchen, as well as 
other damage, including to carpets. Mrs D contacted Ocaso again to make a claim (but also 
made a complaint given what shed previously been told). Ocaso sent a second surveyor (S) 
to inspect the damage, who concluded the way the roof had been installed led to the failure 
of its rear elevation. The heavy rainfall at the time of the further damage had merely 
highlighted the issue. In addition, as Mrs D had engaged her own roofer to carry out repairs, 
Ocaso considered this was also a maintenance issue. Based on these conclusions, Ocaso 
declined Mrs Ds claim.
Unhappy with the issues that had arisen, Mrs D complained to Ocaso, who acknowledged 
her complaint. But Ocaso didnt issue a final response to her complaint within eight weeks, 
so Mrs D complained to this service. She was unhappy at her claim being declined, saying 
that the roof was only replaced four years ago. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Ocaso hadnt shown theyd acted fairly in 
declining Mrs Ds claim. On the damage from the first incident, she thought it likely high 
winds caused the tile to slip and the consequent leak and that the evidence didnt indicate a 
problem with the guttering. She thought Ocaso needed to do more to put things right and 
should reimburse Mrs D the £1,450 shed paid for the roof to be repaired (plus interest).
 
On the damage from the second incident, the investigator thought the weather reports 
indicated storm force winds sufficient to cause structural damage, so concluded storm 
conditions were present. She also thought Ocaso hadnt done enough to show the damage 
was the result of an issue with the installation of the roof (rather than the storm conditions) 
and so hadnt done enough to show theyd acted fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. She 
thought Ocaso should either provide evidence to support their view about the roof 
installation, or settle Mrs Ds claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. She also 
thought that Ocaso should pay Mrs D £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
and reimburse her £105 for the cost of an additional radiator shed bought to keep the 
bedroom warm (given the collapse of the ceiling).
Ocaso disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing they made several points. Firstly, that there werent storm 
conditions around the time of the first incident in November 2019. Also, that Storm Dennis 
wasnt (as Mrs D had said) in November 2019, but in February 2020 (and that there werent 
any significant storms in November 2019). 
Secondly, that Mrs Ds roofer had confirmed that a downpipe on the roof hadnt been fitted 
correctly, leading to heavy rain (not storm conditions) overwhelming the guttering. That 
allowed water to enter through air holes, causing damage. Ocaso considered that to be 
faulty workmanship or design (not a storm event) They also restated the view of L that had 
the roof tiles and guttering been installed correctly, the damage wouldnt have occurred (and 
that consequently it was a maintenance issue). 
Thirdly, that the expert (S) they appointed following Miss Ds complaint agreed with the 
previous findings of their surveyor. Also, they couldnt carry out any more detailed inspection 
of the roof (to evidence their view its installation was at fault) without intrusive investigation 
of the roof (which would risk their exposure to liability for any damage from the investigation). 
Fourthly, that the repair work by Mrs Ds roofer was more extensive than simply putting a tile 
back in place.
In my findings, I concluded that while there was some significant rain around the date of the 
first incident, there werent storm conditions present around the date (nor around the date of 
the second incident). I also agreed with Ocaso that Storm Dennis was in February 2021. 
However, this didnt affect my conclusion, as that was based on the available weather data 
around the relevant dates.
I also agreed with Ocasos points that the damage didnt result from a storm and it was likely 
to have been the result of an installation issue with the roof. I also agreed with Ocasos point 
that the extent of the work carried out by Mrs Ds roofer indicated issues with the roof that 
were more significant. I also thought that a properly installed, nearly-new roof, in the 
absence of clear storm conditions, shouldnt have allowed the ingress of rainwater that 
occurred (and caused the damage).
I also concluded that Ocaso applied an exclusion reasonably, so I concluded they acted 
fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. 
As I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision 
to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Ocaso have acted fairly towards Mrs D.
Id first want to say to Mrs D that I appreciate the impact that the incidents have had on her 
and her daughter, given what shes said about her daughters vulnerability. I also appreciate 
the impact of having to live in the property over the period with the internal damage to the 
ceiling and other parts of the property. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether Ocaso 
have acted fairly towards Mrs D.There are several issues in Mrs Ds complaint, but the main one is that Ocaso have unfairly 
declined her claim for the damage caused, particularly in the second incident that led to the 
ceiling collapse and the associated damage to the interior of the property. Mrs D believes it 
was the result of storm conditions. Ocaso say that the damage wasnt the result of a storm, 
as there werent storm conditions present. Rather it was due to installation issues with the 
roof (and the guttering).
In considering the issue, Ive first considered the question of whether the damage was 
caused by a storm (as Mrs D contends) or (as Ocaso contend) it wasnt. In such cases, there 
are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at the information about the weather conditions around the 
date of the incident, when Mrs D first contacted Ocaso, in November 2019. Using weather 
reports for the nearest station of the weather service we use as a service, these show some 
significant rain in the days leading up to the incident. Ive also looked at the data for wind 
speeds over the same period, and there is no indication of winds on any date that would 
constitute what wed consider to be a storm. Similarly, looking at the data for the period 
leading up to the date of the second incident when Mrs D contacted Ocaso again, there was 
some rain (but less than around the time of the first incident) but no winds that we would 
consider constitute a storm.
 
Based on this, Ive concluded that while there was some significant rain around the date of 
the first incident, there werent storm conditions present around the date (nor around the 
date of the second incident). Ive also noted Ocasos point that Storm Dennis was in 
February 2021 (not November 2020). Ive checked this against the Met Office website and 
Ocaso are correct. However, this hasnt affected my conclusion, as that is based on the 
available weather data around the relevant dates.
While Ive concluded that the answer to the first question is no, I have considered the 
second and third questions. Thats because Mrs D maintains that the damage was caused 
by storm conditions, but in their preliminary report L state:
Damage to the premises is believed to be the result of Storm. It is our understanding 
that the point of origin was the tiled roof and bi-fold doors.
Its also the case that Ocaso maintain that the heavy rain around the time of the incidents 
(which Mrs D has also referred to) merely highlighted existing issues with the installation of 
the roof. In support of their view, Ocaso point to the reports from L and S. Ive looked at the 
various reports. The Preliminary Report from L states (about the nature and extent of 
damage):
a rooferfound that part of the downpipe was incorrectly fitted and the water from 
the main roof in the heavy rain was overwhelming the guttering. This was overflowing 
and the water was coming into the bifold doors (it is believed that the water was 
getting through the air holes just about the doors).
in the loft extension on the main roof two tiles had slipped. Water ingress had 
occurred in the bedroomand then below.The builder believed that the slipped tiles had allowed water ingress which had run 
along a beam and come to present itself in the rooms below.
The report went on to conclude that:
We do not feel that this indicates that the damage has been caused by stormWe 
believe that if the tiles and guttering had been fitted correctly then the internal 
damage would not have occurred.
The initial Risk Report from S states:
On inspection to the roof we could not identify any damage to the roof that could be 
considered as exclusively, caused due to storm damage.
It has been identified that the roof has failed due to probable installation issue within 
the valley intersection at the rear elevation of the roof, which has merely been 
highlighted during heavy rainfall.
The separate claim report from S states the cause to be:
ingress of water from main roof above which appears to have failed to prevent 
rainwater from entering the property during heavy rainfall.
As well as the reports from L and S, Ive also considered what Mrs D has said about the roof 
being replaced four years previously (when the property had an extension to the rear and a 
loft conversion). I accept thats the case and Ive also noted comments in the reports from L 
and S that the condition of the property was good; that there were no issues with wear and 
tear; and that the damage was considered consistent with a singular, one-ff event (not a 
gradually operating cause).
 
However, on balance, I agree with Ocasos points that the damage didnt result from a storm 
and that it is likely to have been the result of an installation issue with the roof. Thats based 
on Ss report. While Ocaso accept that this was based on a non-intrusive inspection, Ive 
also considered their point that the extent of the work carried out by Mrs Ds roofer indicates 
issues with the roof that were more significant than a slipped tile (or two tiles) and the 
absence of a downpipe. Looking at the invoice from the roofer, I agree with this view. I also 
think that a properly installed, nearly-new roof, in the absence of clear storm conditions, 
shouldnt have allowed the ingress of rainwater that occurred (and caused the damage).
Having reached this conclusion, Ive also looked at the policy terms because, in declining the 
claim because of what they considered to be an installation issue with the roof, Ocaso were 
applying an exclusion. The policy terms and conditions (buildings section) states under a list 
of Exclusions that This insurance does NOT cover:
c) Loss or damage caused by faulty workmanship.
I think this is consistent with an installation issue with the roof. While the conclusion was 
based on a visual inspection of the roof, I think Ocaso have done enough (on a balance of 
probabilities) to show that theyve applied the exclusion reasonably. 
Having concluded that Ocaso have applied the exclusion reasonably, then Ive also 
concluded that theyve acted fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Mrs D didnt respond by the date requested. Ocaso acknowledged receipt of the provisional 
decision but didnt provide any further response by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ocaso have acted fairly towards Mrs D.
As neither Mrs D nor Ocaso provided any substantive responses by the date requested, I 
havent changed my view of this complaint, and my final decision remains the same, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman