DRN-4362978
The complaint
Mr G complains about a hire purchase agreement administered and managed by BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS). He says the agreement was mis-sold and 
unaffordable.
What happened
On 14 August 2019 Mr G entered into an agreement with BMWFS for a used car costing 
£85,000. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr G undertook to 
make an advance payment of £5,000 followed by 47 monthly payments of £1,231.94 plus 1 
monthly payment of £35,546.21 making a total repayable of £98,447.39 at an APR of 5.9%.
Due to one or more missed payments BMWFS took the decision to terminate Mr Gs 
agreement and to seek from him the full sum due under it of £93,447.39 (£98,447.39 less 
£5,000.00).
On 7 June 2022 the balance outstanding, and being sought by BMWFS from Mr G, was 
£32,032.67 broken down as follows:
sum on termination £93,447.39
payments made by Mr G (£1,314.72)
net sale proceeds (£60,100.00)
balance outstanding £32,032.67
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He came to the view that:
BMWFS didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr G would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Mr G would be able to 
repay the agreement in a sustainable way, so BMWFS didnt act unfairly in lending to 
Mr G
BMWFS had failed to treat Mr G, once in default and arrears, with forbearance and 
due consideration, particularly given his personal and financial circumstances
BMWFS should treat the net sale proceeds received as part repayment of the 
agreement and give Mr G the interest rebate benefit this treatment will result in
going forward BMWFS should agree a repayment plan with Mr G that, having 
regards to his financial and personal circumstances, is affordable 
As a result of neither party confirming acceptance or rejection of the investigators view, 
Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
I would also add that Im satisfied that both Mr G and BMWFS have been given ample time 
to submit all the comments and evidence they would like me to take into consideration when 
deciding this complaint.
Finally, I would like to make it clear that in deciding this case Ive taken into account 
everything that Mr G has shared with BMWFS and our service about his health and 
wellbeing. 
representation of the agreement
Mr G says he understood he was entering into a bridging facility with BMWFS rather than a 
hire purchase agreement. And as a result of entering the latter, rather than the former, he 
was unable to secure a remortgage or any other form of borrowing.
Now I accept I cant say for certain what was discussed between Mr G and the dealership, 
but ultimately Mr G has signed a hire purchase agreement so Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably uphold this aspect of Mr Gs complaint.
BMWFS lending decision
Mr G says BMWFS acted irresponsibly in agreeing to lend to him.
BMWFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
In cases involving irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending there are two overarching 
questions I need to consider when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
Did BMWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oif so, did BMWFS make a fair lending decision?
oif not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr G 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
At the time BMWFS lent to Mr G it was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of 
whether he could afford to repay the finance in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.The affordability checks should have been borrower-focused, meaning BMWFS needed to 
think about whether repaying the finance sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr G. In other words, it wasnt enough for BMWFS to think only about the 
likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment 
on Mr G himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the finance application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given finance application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income) and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
So, Ive considered whether BMWFS in lending to Mr G had been thorough in the checks it 
made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to him.
BMWFS said that in agreeing to lend to Mr G it relied on what he had declared on his 
application form and what a credit check it undertook returned.
On his application form Mr G declared that he was self-employed, had been in employment 
for 30 years, was an owner occupier and had been residing at his current address for 
12 years. He also declared that he had mortgage debt totalling £195,000 and other debt of 
£14,000. 
The credit check undertaken by BMWFS confirmed that Mr G had mortgage debt totalling 
£195,000 and monthly mortgage repayments of £978 and other credit commitments of £466 
a month
BMWFS has said their checks didnt highlight any concerns and Mr Gs application was auto 
approved. But given that BMWFS credit check showed Mr G had existing credit 
commitments of £1,444 a month, was applying for new finance of £80,000 at a cost of 
£1,315 a month for four years, I would have expected it to have looked further into Mr Gs 
actual financial situation.
This doesnt automatically mean BMWFS shouldnt have lent to Mr G, as I need to consider 
whether these checks would have shown that the repayments were unaffordable to Mr G  
or in other words that he lost out because of BMWFS failure to complete proportionate 
checks. I cant be sure exactly what BMWFS would have found out if it had looked further 
into Mr Gs actual financial situation. But in the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information provided by Mr G to our service 
including his bank statements and tax return.
Having considered these documents I can confirm that Im satisfied, like the investigator and 
for the same reasons, that these dont suggest that the finance would have been 
unaffordable. So while I dont think that BMWFS checks before entering into the agreement with Mr G 
went far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks 
wouldnt have prevented BMWFS from providing these funds or entering into this agreement 
with him.
BMWFS decision to terminate the agreement
Given the agreement arrears position, the various attempts by BMWFS to contact and 
engage with Mr G and the one or more statutory notices issued by BMWFS (correctly 
addressed to Mr G) Im satisfied that BMWFS did nothing wrong in terminating Mr Gs 
agreement.
other matters
BMWFS sold the car and has deducted the net sale proceeds of £60,100 from the debt. I 
think, in the circumstances, given Mr G was in financial difficulties, it ought to have 
considered counting the net sale proceeds as an early repayment and applying an early 
settlement rebate to reduce the outstanding balance. BMWFS has, after all, received a lump 
sum it otherwise wouldnt have done. 
The FCA sets out that firms should treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. An example of this could be to consider suspending, 
reducing, waiving of cancelling interest charges. I appreciate Mr G doesnt have an 
automatic right to a rebate when the car is sold, but like the investigator I find, in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, this would be a fair and reasonable step for 
BMWFS to take. And of course, should Mr G still be in financial difficulties, BMWFS should 
continue to treat him with forbearance and due consideration. 
For the sake of completeness I would add that in coming to the above finding Ive had regard 
to what appears to be a number of charges that BMWFS could have possibly passed onto 
Mr G but didnt.
Its my understanding that BMWFS, in concluding that Mr G owed it £32,032.67 as of 
7 June 2022, has taken into account 21 payments made by Mr G (all less than £80) between 
March 2020 and October 2021. But it appears, according to a statement dated 
21 February 2019, that Mr G made a payment to BMWFS of £1,231.94 on4 December 2019.
So as well as reducing the sum owed by Mr G by the interest rebate referred by me above I 
also find that BMWFS should investigate whether it needs to reduce the sum owed by Mr G 
by a further £1,231.94 and that it shares the outcome of its investigation in this respect with 
him as soon as possible. And on this point, if BMWFS decides a reduction of £1,231.94 need 
not be made and Mr G is of the view that it does, then Mr G is free to raise this as a new and 
separate complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited must:
treat the net sale proceeds of the car (of £60,100) as an early repayment and apply 
an early settlement rebate to reduce the outstanding balance due and owing from 
Mr Ginvestigate whether the outstanding balance due and owing from Mr G should be 
further reduced by £1,231.94 and if so do so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman