DRN-4379988
The complaint
Ms L complains about supply and installation of goods financed through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with  Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna. She would like remedial 
works completed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that there were issues with the supply and installation of a 
shower. I understand Novuna closed Ms Ls claim in December 2018 as Ms L chose 
to refer her complaint to the Home & Furniture Improvement Ombudsman which 
found in her favour and awarded compensation of £750.  As I understand it Ms L 
raised  a Section 75 complaint in 2021 due to further issues with the shower and it is 
this complaint that is being dealt with here
For a Section 75 claim to be pursued there needs to be evidence of a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. I understand Ms L hasnt been able to provide details 
of the original contract. However, as the  merchant has offered a refund of £2826.80 I 
think it must have accepted there was a breach of contract for which the merchant 
and Novuna are jointly and severally liable
The merchant offered to either pay for a fitter to remove and refit the shower 
enclosure, tray and splash wall or pay  a pro rata refund of £2826.80  approximately 
one third of the original cost of the shower purchase and installation. The merchant 
advised that as it was struggling to find a fitter that a refund would be more 
appropriate leaving Ms L free to make her own arrangements. Novuna agreed with 
this. Given the history of this complaint and the delays to date I agree with Novuna 
that a pro rata refund would be a better resolution .
Ms L has asked how the refund  sum offered has been arrived at . From what I 
understand the merchant made the pro rata offer in settlement of all issues. I would 
agree with Novuna that this seems to me to be a reasonable sum.  I wouldnt expect 
a full refund for several reasons. Ms L has had use of the facility , albeit I accept 
given the issues not the full use she might have expected, I understand some items  
can be refitted and Ms L has already had some compensation awarded by the Home 
& Furniture improvement Ombudsman and by Novuna.
Ms L originally told us she had been advised the remedial work would cost over 
£6000 but didnt evidence this. She has since supplied a quote for just under £12,000 
which seems excessive given her first indication of potential costs. Whilst I 
acknowledge the quote Ms L has provided, for a Section 75 claim we would expect to 
see some independent evidence. For example, an independent  report confirming the 
issues, why they have arisen. what  remedial work needs to be done and why, along 
with costs not just a standalone quote. So, whilst I acknowledge the quote Ms L has 
provided it isnt sufficient for me to say that Ms L should be awarded £12,000 as she 
would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna should pay Ms L 
the sum of £2826.80.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman