DRN-4160133
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) charged fees to their euro account 
and marked their credit file. 
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C had a euro account and a GBP account with Metro. On 3 September 2018, 
two large payments totalling euro 416,866 were made. This left a balance of euro 7.60 credit 
on the euro account. On 28 September 2018, a monthly maintenance fee of euro 5 was 
debited to the euro account. After that, monthly fees of euro 15 were debited to the account. 
There wasnt any other activity. By 6 April 2019, the balance was overdrawn because of the 
monthly fees  the balance was then euro105 debit. Metro refunded the charges in response 
to Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint and the account was closed. But - Metro added late payment 
markers to Mrs C and Mr Cs credit files. 
Mrs C and Mr C complained. They said theyd asked Metro to transfer money from the euro 
account to the GBP account to avoid charges  they said theyd been told that charges 
would only apply if there was money in the euro account. They said that because the 
transfer hadnt been done, fees had been charged and the overdraft was created  through 
no fault of their own. This had led to the markers on their credit files .They said their credit 
rating had now been affected and should be put right. 
Metro said that in the calls with Mr C in November 2018 and February 2019, it was explained 
why the charges had been applied to the euro account. But they refunded the charges of 
euro 105 anyway, taking the balance to zero and closed the accounts. But Metro said that 
Mr C had been dismissive of the debt and had been advised in SMS texts that there were 
arrears. So they said the markers on the credit file would not be removed. 
Mrs C and Mr C brought their complaint to us. Our investigator issued two views. The first 
said Metro should remove the adverse markers at the credit reference agencies. Because on 
a call on 6 February 2019, Metro agreed to refund the charges but hadnt done so. He said it 
was clear that Mrs C and Mr C wanted to close the euro account from the outset. Mr C had 
said that on the call in December 2018 but had ended the call - in frustration. 
Mrs C and Mr C agreed with the first view, but Metro came forward with a further call which 
took place on 6 February 2019. 
In his second view, our investigator reconsidered his opinion and said the markers were fair 
 because in the further call on 6 February 2019, Mr C ended the call without allowing the 
call handler to action his request to close the account  which wouldve stopped the fees 
being charged. So  our investigator said Metro acted reasonably and said the adverse 
markers on the credit files should remain in place. Mrs C and Mr C didnt agree and asked 
that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. So  it has come to me to do that.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
At the outset, let me explain that Mrs C and Mr C appear to have misunderstood Metros 
charging policy on euro accounts. This is set out in its terms and conditions. These say that 
euro accounts with a balance of less that euro 2,000 there is a monthly charge of euro 15. 
For accounts with a balance of over euro 2,000, the monthly charge is euro 5. In his 
complaint to us, and in the conversations with Metro, Mr C thought that if there wasnt a 
balance on the euro account, there would be no charges at all  but this wasnt ever the 
case. So  Mrs C and Mr C were mistaken here. 
Therefore, after Mrs C and Mr C reduced the balance to euro 7.60 in September 2018, the 
monthly fees were applied. This was in line with Metros terms and conditions and thats not 
something I can challenge. But what this meant was that an overdraft built up after that time 
due to the monthly fees being applied. By April 2019, the balance was euro105  all due to 
the monthly fees applied. The only way that Mrs C and Mr C could avoid the fees wouldve 
been to close the euro account previously. 
So  having said this, I went on to consider whether Mrs C and Mr C were treated 
reasonably and fairly by Metro in the context of what happened. And while Metro has 
followed their processes here, strictly following a procedure or process can lead to an unfair 
outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats 
happened here. 
I listened to the calls between Mr C and Metro. 
In the call on 19 November 2018, Mr C asked to transfer the small balance of euro 2.60 
credit to the GBP account  this was done and left a nil balance on the euro account. So  
that was as he asked. 
In the call on 20 December 2018, Mr C said hed received a text to say the euro account was 
overdrawn. He asked why that was  when there was no activity on the account,. The call 
handler explained the overdraft was due to the monthly fees charged and explained the fee 
structure. Mr C said he had transferred money out of the euro account to avoid the charge 
(showing that he didnt understand the charges). He became frustrated and asked to close 
the account but the call then ended. 
On the call on 6 February 2019, Mr C again said hed had a text to say the euro account was 
overdrawn. He said again that he had been told there were no fees if there wasnt any 
money in the account. The call handler referred the matter and agreed to refund the monthly 
fees paid up to then (euro 45). Mr C said he didnt want to pay a monthly fee. But 
unfortunately, the refund wasnt actioned and the overdrawn balance remained outstanding 
and continued to increase with the monthly charges. This was an error by Metro. 
Also  it seems to me that Mr C was clear that he didnt want to pay a monthly fee, and it 
wouldve been reasonable for the call handler to have picked up on that and offered a 
solution to Mr C to close the account  but didnt. There was an overdrawn balance of euro 
45  due entirely of fees. And there hadnt been any activity on the account for five months  
so it wouldve been reasonable for Metro to have asked Mr C if he wanted to continue with 
the account  given the monthly fee being charged, but that wasnt done. 
There was a second call on 6 February 2019  Mr C had written to Metro to ask that the 
account be closed. The call handler explained that the overdrawn balance was due to the 
monthly fees  but by that time, Mr C was frustrated and said, you can do what you like 
(with the overdrawn balance). The call handler tried to say that Metro couldnt close the 
account on the authority of a letter but Mr C hung up. By that time, in all honesty, I can 
understand his frustration  as earlier in the day, he was told the overdrawn balance was to 
be repaid by a refund of the fees  and that hadnt been done - and the second call handler 
said the overdraft remained at euro 45. 
So in summary , while Mrs C and Mr C misunderstood how monthly charges were made on 
the euro account, it was clear that they didnt want to pay the fees and wanted to close the 
account to avoid the charges. Metro shouldve refunded the fees in February 2019 as theyd 
agreed to  and picked up that Mrs C and Mr C wanted to close the account to avoid fees  
but they didnt. Thereafter, matters became confused and Mr C became frustrated. I then considered whether the marks on Mr C and Mrs Cs credit files were reasonable. 
There hadnt been any credits to the euro account since September 2018 up to when the 
account closed in April 2019. And here, its important to see what communications were sent 
to Mrs C and Mr C by Metro about the debt. If they were clear and not misleading  then I 
would be minded not to uphold the complaint  as Mrs C and Mr C wouldve been made 
aware of the situation. We asked Metro for:
 text messages sent from Sept 2018 to May 2019. 
 any letters sent about the account and arrears. 
 any communications sent about the impending marks on Mrs C and Mr Cs credit file. 
 Any Notice of Default or letters of demand. 
 Details of the marks added to Mrs C and / or Mr Cs credit file. 
Unfortunately, Metro havent sent anything to us  and we have chased for this information. 
Therefore, I must conclude that there werent any communications sent  and therefore I 
dont think Mrs C and Mr C were treated reasonably. 
Metro said in their final responses that Mr C had been dismissive of the debt  but I didnt 
consider that to be the case on the calls I listened to  on the final call on 6 February 2029  
he did say do what you like with it  but that was after several frustrating calls with Metro up 
to that point. 
So  I intend to uphold this complaint. Metro should remove any adverse markers on Mrs C 
and Mr Cs credit files. And  Mrs C and Mr C argue that their credit rating has gone down as 
a result  so I think that compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience is also 
appropriate. 
As is our process, if Metro come forward with information about the communications sent to 
Mrs C and Mr C, then I may review this provisional decision.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs C and Mr C repeated their points  that their credit file has been affected by a small 
issue of a few euros. And this had led to a buy to let mortgage application being turned 
down. It will also likely mean that rates on existing loans will go up when they are reviewed.
Metro sent to us the information we asked for. They said (and evidenced):
There were texts messages sent to Mrs C and Mr C  three were sent in November 
2018 and December 2018. These said Youre overdrawn on your account. Please 
pay in sufficient funds within 48 hours.
Metro argued that theyd reported to credit reference agencies that the account was 
in arrears from February 2019. This was factually correct and shouldnt be changed.
I now need to consider this information and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service agrees that factual information should be reported to credit reference agencies. 
But equally, firms should clearly communicate with customers about their accounts and the 
actions firms are proposing. And here, in the circumstances of what happened, I noted Metro didnt send any letters, emails, or make any outbound calls to Mrs C and Mr C about their 
account. 
So  I cant reasonably say that communications were clear and not misleading  as they 
must be. I dont think that three texts can be reasonably said to be clear communications. 
And  there was no advice about any reporting to credit reference agencies, or the 
consequences of not paying in.
This must also be considered with the points I made in the provisional decision  that it was 
clearly Mrs C and Mr Cs intention to close the account and not allow charges to accrue.
Putting things right
Therefore, while I am grateful for the information Metro has sent, my final decision is 
unchanged from the provisional decision 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC must: 
 Remove any adverse information from Mrs C and Mr Cs credit files.
 Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman