DRN-3649761
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service received by Jupiter Unit Trusts Limited (Jupiter). 
He said Jupiter sold all the units in his Stocks and Shares ISA held with it, converted it to 
cash and transferred the money to another ISA provider, without his authorisation.
What happened
Mr R held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Jupiter. Another ISA provider (Party A) put in an 
information request on 8 July 2021. Jupiter provided a valuation of Mr Rs ISA. Following this 
a transfer request was submitted by Party A on 12 July 2021. On 14 July 2021 Jupiter issued 
a contract note detailing the sale of the units within Mr Rs ISA and completed the transfer. 
On 15 July 2021, Mr R contacted Jupiter to ask that the units be transferred back to his ISA 
with it. He said that he hadnt given his authorisation to do this.
On the same day, 15 July 2021, Mr Rs financial advisers (Party B) contacted Jupiter to say 
the transfer request that it had submitted to Party A, was processed by them in error. Party B 
said it did not obtain Mr Rs authorisation. This error then led to Party A sending a request to 
Jupiter, who duly then sold the units and transferred over the money to it. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service after Jupiter told him that it had done nothing 
wrong other than carry out instructions by Party A. It did though offer Mr R a £150 payment 
for what it says was poor customer service from its behalf for not handling his complaint 
efficiently. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and issued their view not upholding his 
complaint. They concluded Jupiter completed a transfer request on 12 July 2021 and had no 
reason to believe that it was made without Mr Rs authority. They said Jupiter had signed up 
to industry standard rules along with other ISA providers and followed these when dealing 
with the request. They didnt think Jupiter had done anything wrong with regards to the 
transfer. They said Jupiter should forward the cheque for £150 to Mr R again, that it has 
already tried to do. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He said Government guidelines on ISA transfer 
requests should have been followed and these werent by Jupiter. He said the investigator 
has chosen to look at the processes followed by Jupiter on ISA transfers as laid down by the 
agreed industry standard and not the guidelines issued by the Government. He said Jupiter 
had a responsibility to ensure that it had his permission before it carried out the transfer 
request. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the record, Party B put in the transfer request to Party A without Mr Rs permission and 
has admitted that it made an error. It made an offer to compensate Mr R, which was been 
accepted.
What I am considering here are the actions of Jupiter and no other parties, despite the 
obvious connections with regards to the transfer request. I am looking into what Jupiter did 
when it received the transfer request from Party A and whether it did anything wrong here.
So, to be clear, a complaint made against Jupiter doesnt allow me to consider or make 
findings on the actions of other parties, in this case Party A and Party B. Although for ease, I 
have continued to mention them so that there is a clear understanding as to what has 
happened here.
So, I have looked into Jupiters role in the electronic transfer request submitted to it by    
Party A, that resulted in it going on to sell Mr Rs assets held within his ISA and then shortly 
afterwards transferring the cash proceeds. 
Jupiter did this without written permission from Mr R, as all the parties involved had signed 
up to an electronic exchange scheme that meant that, according to the parties involved, this 
wasnt needed.
The scheme, called TISA Exchange Limited (TeL), has been designed by the ISA providers 
themselves and they all adhere to the same terms and conditions. By participating it allows 
ISA providers to carry out transfers quickly and efficiently removing some of the 
administrative function, as all participants are adhering to the same rules. It also designates 
clear roles and responsibilities when it comes to transferring ISAs between them and spells 
out who is responsible for what.  
Mr R says Jupiter had wider responsibilities under government guidelines issued on ISAs 
and this he says is his main complaint. He says Jupiter failed to communicate with him in 
any way, shape or form prior to selling and transferring his assets without his authorisation. 
So, I have looked at this, at the Government guidelines for ISA transfers and also the TeL 
terms and conditions to see whether Jupiter should have done anymore and whether there 
were any failings with how it handled the transfer request that it was given by Party A. 
I acknowledge the point that Mr R has made regarding Jupiters responsibilities to follow 
Government guidelines. He has also recently provided comments relating to the terms and 
conditions of the ISA that he was given to look through. Ive read the Government guidelines 
on ISA transfers and on balance, I cant find any failings by Jupiter in this instance. There 
arent any specific rules that I think Jupiter failed to adhere to when I think about these and 
also the wider terms given within the TeL scheme. This is so long as all parties that signed 
up, adhere to its part within the scheme rules and then takes responsibility for any failings 
that occur from anything that it needed to do. I am satisfied that this is what has happened 
here, that Party B has done so in this instance. 
I also note that the TeL terms and conditions does have a section on Compliance with laws 
and regulations. So, I think the terms of the exchange scheme are meant to be given as 
rules for participating members that signed up to abide by alongside their compliance 
responsibilities. There is no mention of Government guidelines, but this is because the 
guidelines were published after the terms and conditions were. But I think the guidelines 
would fall into the broad section within the terms given for law and regulation. 
Under the TeL terms and conditions, roles are clearly laid out and it is for, in this instance, 
Party A as initiating participant to verify with Party B, that it has received authorisation from Mr R to carry out this instruction. Jupiters role then as non-initiating participant is to fulfil a 
transfer instruction in accordance with the rules unless there is an exceptional circumstance. 
I can see after reading these terms that one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the 
scheme rules is where a non-initiating participant has legitimate reason to believe the 
initiating participant has not been given authorisation by the customer to act on its behalf. If 
this is the case, then it doesnt need to proceed with the transfer. So, the rules provided by 
all participants allows for any misunderstanding or lack of authorisation that comes to light 
by, in this case, Jupiter, to be acted upon. 
As I have already mentioned, a transfer request was erroneously put in by Party B to Party 
A. Party A then put in a transfer request to Jupiter. Jupiter then carried out the request by 
selling the units held by Mr R and then transferred the money to Party A. At no point during 
this time can I see that Jupiter was aware that Parties A or B did not have authorisation from 
Mr R to carry out this request and was only made aware after it had carried out its part of the 
transfer. I also dont think that Jupiter would have any reason to doubt the validity of the 
request they were given. So, I can see why it would proceed as if the request was genuine 
and then go ahead and complete the transfer.
So, in conclusion, I dont think Jupiter did anything wrong within its part of the transfer here 
and was not the party that was responsible for this request erroneously being submitted, that 
then led to it subsequently going ahead. 
Finally, I can see that Jupiter has offered Mr R a payment of £150 as it says it could have 
done things better in the way it has handled his complaint. Mr R should make contact with 
Jupiter directly if he now wishes to accept this payment. 
Im sorry that the outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R, but after 
considering all of the information provided by both sides here, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Jupiter Unit Trusts Limited and so I dont require it to 
do anything further here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman