DRN-4013485
The complaint
Mr I complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) Amex 
administered his credit card following a credit balance. 
What happened
Mr I has a credit card with Amex. In late October 2022 Mr I contacted Amex to request a 
refund of a credit balance held on his credit card. Mr I asked for the credit balance to be 
refunded to his current account and provided the relevant details. Around a week later, Mr I 
contacted Amex again as the credit balance had been removed from the credit card but 
hadnt been received in his bank account. Mr I was told the funds would be with him shortly. 
In the days that followed, it came to light that Amex had refunded the credit balance to 
another credit card provider as it had come about following a balance transfer. Amex 
provided details for Mr I to give to the other credit card provider to reclaim the funds. And 
when Amex issued a final response it paid Mr I £150 to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr I referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
that by arranging for the credit balance to be recredited to Mr Is account and paying him 
£150 Amex had agreed a fair settlement to his complaint. Mr I asked to appeal and said the 
compensation didnt reflect the level of trouble and upset caused when dealing with Amex. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr I was frustrated with the information and service provided when he 
contacted Amex. Its confirmed that agents didnt follow the right process when arranging the 
return of funds and that the credit balance wasnt returned to Mr Is bank account as agreed. 
Amex went on to apply a temporary credit to Mr Is credit card balance, matching the amount 
it sent back to his credit card provider. And Amex has confirmed that credit will remain on Mr 
Is account, despite the funds not subsequently being returned to it. 
Mr Is told us he had to use his credit card whilst waiting for the situation to be resolved. 
Whilst I agree there was a reasonable level of inconvenience caused to Mr I, I also note 
Amex has paid him £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
Ive carefully considered how to fairly resolve Mr Is complaint. Whilst I understand Mr I 
remains frustrated with the issues raised, I think the settlement agreed by Amex is a 
reasonable reflection of the level of distress and inconvenience caused and is a fair way to 
resolve his complaint. To put it another way, the settlement agreed is very much in line with 
what I wouldve told Amex to pay had no offer been made. As Im satisfied Amex has already 
agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to 
increase the award or do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has already agreed 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman