DRN-4026113
The complaint
Mrs D complains because Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) has said it wont consider 
any further evidence provided in relation to a declined claim under a group income protection 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D first became absent from work in May 2019. In September 2019 and February 2020, 
Generali declined Mrs Ds income protection insurance claim. It said this was because it 
didnt think Mrs D was incapacitated, as defined by the policy, throughout the entirety of the 
relevant deferred period. 
Mrs D brought a complaint to our service and an ombudsman made a final decision about 
the matter in March 2022. The ombudsmans final decision said that Generali had acted 
fairly and reasonably by concluding that Mrs D wasnt continuously incapacitated under the 
policy throughout the deferred period  and declining the claim. In his final decision, the 
ombudsman also said:
Finally, if Mrs D has any further medical evidence that she feels supports her claim 
during the deferred period, shes free to forward that evidence to Generali to see 
whether it changes its position about whether she was incapacitated as defined by 
the policy. And whether any benefit is payable under the policy.
Generali subsequently considered a letter from a Consultant Neurologist dated July 2020. 
Generali said this letter didnt provide any further evidence of Mrs Ds incapacity, and that it 
was written outside of the material time of the deferred period in relation to the claim. 
Generali also referenced a letter dated 31 January 2022 and said this was dated a number 
of years after the claim, so it also wasnt material. Generali then said it was not prepared to 
review any further information and that it considered the claim to be closed. 
Mrs D brought a second complaint to our service. She said she hadnt yet asked Generali to 
consider further medical evidence, and that there was additional information which she was 
compiling which she wanted to send to Generali for it to review. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Generali to refuse to consider any further evidence, given the time that had 
passed since Mrs Ds claim was made. 
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no power to revisit or comment on any of the issues which have already been 
addressed in the ombudsmans final decision made in March 2022. Within this final decision, 
I can only make findings about the events which have happened since March 2022, and that 
is the position taken by Generali that it wont consider any further information provided in 
relation to Mrs Ds claim. 
Im aware that Mrs D says she didnt ask Generali to review any additional evidence since 
the ombudsmans final decision of March 2022, but the background to this has already been 
addressed separately by our service and isnt something which is relevant to whether I think 
Generalis current stance is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. 
It was up to Mrs D to provide evidence in support of her claim, to demonstrate that she had a 
valid claim under the policy. I wouldnt have expected Generali to set out specific details to 
Mrs D as to exactly what evidence she needed to provide if she wanted to have her claim 
paid.  
Generali has already considered and given an answer to Mrs Ds claim. Given the length of 
time that has passed since then, Generalis ability to fully investigate any further evidence 
which is presented now will have diminished. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect 
an insurer to continue to reconsider additional evidence in relation to a previously decided 
claim indefinitely. I dont think Generali has a duty to Mrs D to review evidence on an 
ongoing basis in relation to this claim, which has already been declined and appealed 
several years ago.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, and I know this wont be the outcome she was hoping for, but I 
dont think Generali has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances and I wont be 
directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman