DRN-3225366
The complaint
X complains that his application for a Premier account debit card was refused in error and 
that incorrect information has been recorded on his credit file by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
On 18 May 2021, X applied for a Premier account online but had some issues completing 
the process, as it appeared he had been declined. He telephoned Barclays and the advisor 
explained there had been some technical issues with applications and they went through the 
upgrade manually instead. There were issues with the debit card being applied for over the 
phone, so a call back was arranged. 
X spoke with another advisor the following day who again went through the manual 
application for the debit card. It came back that this had been rejected due to XS credit 
score. X felt this must be incorrect as he had a perfect credit score and he had been told the 
previous day that Barclays was having issues with applications. But the advisor explained he 
would have to appeal. A complaint was raised at that time and X felt the advisor had 
personally been rude to him.
Barclays issued a final response letter on 24 May 2021 in which they explained they 
declined the application based on information received from the credit referencing agencies. 
They also felt the advisor had been helpful and processed the application before giving X the 
outcome. X was unhappy that Barclays appeared to have completed a credit check on him 
on 24 May 2021, the same day they issued the final response letter to him. And he thought 
that Barclays may have created searches in the name of a third-party provider well call Z. 
X applied over the telephone for the debit card again on 27 May 2021 and was successful. 
However, he was unhappy that Barclays appeared to have completed a hard search on his 
credit file to approve this. 
Once the complaint was referred to our service, Barclays reviewed the case and confirmed 
the advisor had made an error in the phone call on 19 May and processed the application 
incorrectly. Which led to the debit card application being declined. They apologised and 
offered £100 compensation to X. They also confirmed they had recorded the application 
made on 27 May to Xs credit file but had not added anything else prior to that for the 19 May 
application, nor had they reported anything via the third-party company, Z. Our investigator 
agreed this outcome was fair in the circumstances.
X was unhappy with this, he felt he should receive significantly higher compensation in line 
with what his hourly rate is for work. He still felt Barclays had incorrectly applied a hard 
search to his credit file instead of a soft search for the debit card, so felt it would be visible to 
other creditors. And he still felt someone at Barclays had made an application in his name 
for the company Z. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint and think the £100 compensation offered by 
Barclays is fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Its clear there was an error during the telephone call on 19 May. Barclays has admitted to 
this and explained the incorrect process was followed by the advisor and feedback has been 
given internally. X took the initiative to try the process again just over a week later, meaning 
there was a total delay of 8 days before the application was successfully processed. I 
understand that X being told there was an issue with his credit file caused him distress, 
considering that he was going through the process of applying for a mortgage at the same 
time. Considering this, and that X was also caused some inconvenience by having to chase 
the issue up and re-apply for the debit card, the £100 offered by Barclays is in line with what 
I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
I appreciate X has said he should receive compensation in line with his hourly rate. But as X 
is bringing this complaint as an individual in his personal capacity, I dont think this would be 
fair. Instead, Ive considered the inconvenience the matter has caused him when reaching 
an amount that I think is reasonable.  
Ive gone on the consider Xs comments about incorrect information being recorded on his 
credit file. Firstly, X has said Barclays did a credit check on 24 May, and on the same day an 
identity verification entry is on his credit file which has been carried out by Z. X thinks 
Barclays has carried out the search under Z in order to show his credit file was poor when 
issuing him a final response letter rejecting his complaint. Barclays has said it has no 
connection to Z in any way and could not have carried out the identity verification check that 
appears on his credit file. 
On balance, considering that Barclays has no ties or connection to Z, I think its more likely 
they had no part in carrying out the identity verification check under their name. If X thinks 
this entry on his credit file is incorrect, he should contact Equifax and Z directly to discuss 
the matter. I note the entry does not appear on his Experian credit file. 
I can see the consumer enquiry carried out by Barclays on 24 May also only appears on Xs 
Equifax credit file, and not his Experian credit file. Barclays has said they did carry out 
checks in relation to the application on 27 May, however the consumer enquiry does appear 
before that point. I note this is a soft search and would not appear to other creditors if they 
carried out a credit check on X and that Barclays did make X aware it would have to share 
his data with credit referencing agencies to carry out related checks. Its not clear from the 
evidence provided if this search is related to the 27 May application, but ultimately, I have to 
consider that it has no adverse impact on Xs credit score. So, I dont think it has a 
detrimental impact on X.
Finally, X has said his Experian credit report is showing Barclays carried out a hard search 
on 27 May when he applied for the debit card but he thinks it should have been a soft 
search instead. Ive looked at Xs more recent Experian credit file and can see the 
application type for the entry is listed as enquiry. At the top of that section it gives a brief 
description of different searches. This says that enquiries are shown in Xs copy of his report 
but are not seen by lenders and are not taken into account when making credit decisions. 
Because of this, the enquiry is a soft search, and would not be classed as a hard search. So, I dont think Barclays have made an error. 
In summary, theres clearly been an error made on 19 May where Xs application for the 
debit card was declined, and this wasnt then approved for another eight days. This caused 
X stress and inconvenienced him, and I think the £100 offered is fair in the circumstances. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Barclays have made an error when sharing data with 
the credit referencing agencies about X, so I dont think it needs to do anything further in 
relation to that part of the complaint.     
My final decision
I uphold Xs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
I now instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay X £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman