DRN-2600899
The complaint
Miss W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt cover her food costs under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W had travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is UKI.
Miss W travelled abroad on 5 March 2020 and her return flight was booked for 2 April 2020. 
But due to the Covid-19 global pandemic, the return flight was cancelled. She eventually 
returned to the UK in May 2020  she stayed abroad around six weeks more than originally 
planned.
UKI paid Miss Ws claim for travel and accommodation costs during the additional time she 
was abroad. But it didnt cover her food costs. UKI says these arent covered under the 
relevant sections of the policy. 
UKI said the abandoned departure section didnt apply here, as this was only relevant for 
the outbound journey from the UK. UKI decided to consider the claim under the curtailment 
section rather than delayed return  this also had a higher payment limit, so it was more 
beneficial for Miss W.
UKI acknowledged that it had asked Miss W to send in evidence of her food costs rather 
than explaining that these wouldnt be covered. So, it paid her £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Miss W says UKI should cover her food costs. She says the terms arent clear as they dont 
specifically exclude food costs, and UKI should consider these under a different section on 
the policy. Miss W says the £100 doesnt cover her food costs for the additional time she had 
to stay abroad.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy didnt cover food costs 
under any of the sections that had been mentioned  abandonment, delayed return or 
curtailment. And in any event, she thought UKI had acted fairly when it considered Miss Ws 
claim under the curtailment section. Overall, our investigator didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong by declining to cover Miss Ws food costs.
Our investigator noted that UKI hadnt told Miss W early on that food wasnt covered but 
asked her to send evidence. But she thought the £100 UKI had paid Miss W to compensate 
her for this was fair and reasonable. So, she didnt think there was anything else UKI needed 
to do, to put things right.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said that she bought insurance to 
cover her for this type of situation. She was delayed for six weeks, and she wouldnt have 
known that she wasnt covered for this.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Based on everything Ive 
seen, I dont think UKI has unreasonably rejected Miss Ws claim for food costs. Ill explain 
why.
I can see that food and drink are included under the definition consumable item. But the 
only sections in the policy where these are covered are under personal belongings. These 
sections arent relevant to this complaint because Miss W isnt, for example, claiming for lost 
or stolen baggage. Food and drink are also mentioned under the definition of extra 
accommodation  the definition says this doesnt include food or drink.
Miss W says UKI shouldve considered her claim under the abandoned departure section 
of the policy. But as UKI has explained, this term applies for the outbound journey at the 
point of departure  this wouldve applied if Miss W had abandoned her journey before she 
left the UK. So, this wouldve meant she wouldnt have travelled at all. But she did, so I dont 
think UKI has done anything wrong by not considering her claim under this part of the policy.
UKI has said that it considered if Miss Ws claim should be considered under the delayed 
return or cutting short your trip (after your trip has started) sections on the policy. The 
latter is also called curtailment.
The delayed return section only provides cover for up to £500, whereas the curtailment 
section provides cover for up to £5,000. Neither section mentions food or drink. UKI 
considered Miss Ws claim under the curtailment section, and it paid her over £1,300 for her 
additional accommodation and travel costs. So, it paid more than Miss W wouldve been 
entitled to under the delayed return section. Overall, I think UKI has treated Miss W fairly 
by considering her claim under the curtailment section of the policy. 
Theres no cover on the policy for food or drink under the curtailment or the delayed return 
sections of the policy. I appreciate these arent specifically excluded under these policy 
terms either. But I dont think that makes a difference here.
Fundamentally, this policy doesnt provide cover for food and drink in the circumstances of 
this complaint. This isnt unusual in travel policies, and I dont consider that to be generally 
unreasonable or unfair. Thats because whether Miss W had been abroad or had been able 
to return on her original flight, she wouldve likely always needed to buy food. So, I dont 
think I could reasonably direct UKI to reimburse her for these costs.
UKI has accepted that it shouldve told Miss W earlier that food and drink werent covered. 
Had it done so, Miss W wouldnt have had to send evidence of these costs. But UKI has paid 
Miss W £100 for the distress and inconvenience this caused her. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I dont think UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Miss Ws claim for food 
costs. And I think £100 fairly compensates Miss W for any unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused here. I dont think theres anything else UKI needs to do, to put things 
right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman