DRN-3452824
The complaint
Ms H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on her motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Ageas
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium-brand sports utility vehicle,
first registered in 2010.
Ms H acquired the vehicle in early 2019, under an agreement with a finance company.
In May 2020, the vehicle passed an MOT with a recoded milage of about 114,000.
For the year from September 2020, Ms H had a comprehensive policy for the vehicle. The
policy covered damage to the vehicle, subject to compulsory and voluntary excesses
totalling £650.00. Ageas was the insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim.
In early December 2020, Ms H had a problem with the suspension of the vehicle. On 7
December 2020, Ms H got an expert to inspect and report on the vehicle.
On 8 March 2021, Ms H reported to Ageas that the suspension problem had been caused by
an incident with a pothole in December 2020. On 12 March 2021, Ageas got another expert 
to inspect the vehicle and provide a report.
On 8 April 2021, Ageas said that there was damage to a front spring and the estimated cost
of replacement was £329.22 which was less than the policy excess. It said that the rest of
the damage to the front suspension and rear suspension was wear and tear which the policy
didnt cover.
Ms H complained to Ageas.
In mid-May 2021, the MOT certificate expired.
Ms H brought her complaint to us in July 2021.
By a final response dated October 2021, Ageas turned down the complaint. It reiterated what
it had said in April 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator
thought that Ageas had reached a fair outcome. The investigator said that, as the claim
value was lower than the policy excess, there was no claim to be made under the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms H 
and to Ageas on 31 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
I kept in mind the recurrence of problems with springs, the late reporting of the claim, 
the lack of evidence that the rear suspension was damaged by a pothole, and the 
evidence that the cost of front springs fell within the excess.
Subject to any further information from Ms H or from Ageas, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
Ms H hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Ageas said it had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has said that she had previously complained to the finance company about broken
suspension springs. And clearly she had a suspension problem again in early December
2020.
At around the same time, Ms H insured a 2009 hatchback. But she didnt at that time report
an incident or make a claim involving a pothole.
The experts report on 7 December 2020 recorded a mileage of 120,690. The report included
the following:
Inspection of the O/S/R suspension of the vehicle found the shock absorber bottom
bolt is missing allowing the shocker to bang against the rear bottom suspension arm,
the thread in the bottom arm which the shocker is supposed to be attached to is
covered in dirt, the suspension arm has an area which has worn where the shocker
has been banging against
Inspection of the rear springs from what can be seen both springs appear in good
order
So the report highlighted that the rear offside (that is right) suspension had a missing bolt
and dirt in the threaded hole There was no mention of damage to the front suspension.
The report concluded as follows:
With the rear springs breaking at such close intervals there are a number of factors
to be taken into account, this could just be due to faulty/budget components fitted,
another factor to be considered are the highway conditions speed bumps/potholes,
which could cause the breakages
Yet Ms H still didnt report an incident or make a claim involving a pothole.
She didnt contact Ageas until early March 2021, when she reported that a pothole incident
had taken place in early December 2020.If Ageas had met any claim above the excess, it is likely, in view of its age and mileage, to
have treated the vehicle as a total loss. So Ageas wouldnt have repaired the vehicle. And it
probably wouldnt have provided a courtesy car. It would have paid the pre-accident value of
the vehicle.
The report in March 2021 recorded a mileage of 120,691. The report included the following:
The right rear shock absorber has detached from the lower suspension arm.
The lower shock absorber mounting is secured to the lower arm by a [threaded] bolt
which screws into the lower arm.
The bolt is missing.
If the bolt had sheared, the sheared section of the bolt should still be present in the
lower arm. This section of the bolt is not present.
The threaded hole is heavily contaminated with road dirt indicating that the bolt has
been missing for sometime to enable the level of dirt to accumulate overtime.
This does not correspond with the PH saying the vehicle having had limited use since
the reported incident.
The bolt hole in the suspension arm has not elongated or ripped downward. The
outer casing of the arm is damaged possibly by the shock absorber striking the arm
or wearing against it.
There are no fresh abrasions to the lower mounting of the shock absorber.
For the entire bolt to be missing this would indicate the bolt was either missing or had
worked loose over time and fallen out.
There are no indications that the bolt would be ripped out of the hole by simply
striking a pot hole as the shock absorber can only move in a vertical direction and
would not impose a lateral force to pull the bolt out of the threads in the mounting
hole.
So the vehicle had recorded only 1 mile since the report in December 2020. And it confirmed
that the rear right (that is offside) suspension had a missing bolt and dirt in the threaded
hole. So I find it likely that the bolt had been missing for some time before 7 December 2020.
The report continued as follows:
Both front road springs are broken in similar places at the rear lower side of the
suspension struts.
It is not uncommon for road springs to break in normal service but the fact that both
have broken may indicate wear and tear although I could not dispute a claim that
they had broken as a result of hitting pothole, however [it] is likely to be after hitting a
pot hole on both sides of the vehicle if that was the case.
All of the other issues highlighted by the garage are wear and tear items and are not
attributable to the claim under notice.
As the vehicle had only recorded one mile since 7 December 2020, I find it likely that the
front springs had broken some time before 7 December 2020.
By June 2021, Ms Hs garage expressed the following opinion:
In my opinion the damaged caused to Your Vehicle is not Wear and Tear and has
been caused Possibly by Hitting a Pot hole
But neither that opinion nor the conclusion to the December 2020 report provide clear
opinion evidence that the suspension was damaged by an impact with a pothole.
The report of March 2020 doesnt show that the rear right suspension was damaged by animpact with a pothole.
That report says that the engineer couldnt dispute that both the front suspension springs
had broken as a result of hitting a pothole. However, the only evidence Ive seen about the
cost of replacing the front springs is that it would fall within the £650.00 excess.
I keep in mind the recurrence of problems with springs, the late reporting of the claim, the
lack of evidence that the rear suspension was damaged by a pothole, and the evidence that
the cost of front springs fell within the excess. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Ageas to meet the claim or to do any more in response to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman