DRN-2223356
The complaint
Mr K says Aviva Insurance Limited has offered him insufficient compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In June 2000 a PPI policy was added to Mr Ks catalogue shopping account.
In 2019 Mr K complained about the sale of the policy.
Aviva upheld Mr Ks complaint and offered him a total of £338.05 compensation. It sent him 
a cheque for this amount. Later Aviva sent Mr K a further cheque for £10.00 due to a delay 
in sending him the first cheque.
Mr K says he should be due more compensation as he wasnt told about the PPI when he 
lost his job and got into financial difficulties. As a result he didnt make a claim on the policy 
and struggled financially. Mr K says he should be compensated for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly looked at the offer made by Aviva and if it has been calculated in the way Id 
expect it to have been calculated.
When a business mis-sells a PPI this service expects the business to put the consumer (as 
far as is possible) back in the financial position theyd be in if the policy had not been sold. 
That means the business needs to refund the PPI premiums paid together with any interest 
or charges incurred because the PPI was added to the account. The business should also 
add compensatory interest at 8% simple for the time the consumer has been out of pocket.
In this case I can see Aviva has refunded the total premiums paid by Mr K which were 
£129.44. Its also refunded £45.00 in charges that were added to the account because of the 
PPI and its paid and additional £163.61 compensatory interest, net of tax. So I think the 
offer from Aviva was calculated as Id expect.
I note there was some delay in sending Mr K the cheque so Aviva later sent Mr K a cheque 
for £10 to compensate for this and I think that is fair in the circumstances.
So I think Avivas offer is fair and was calculated correctly and in the way Id expect it to.
But Mr K believes he should receive further compensation due to the fact he didnt make a 
claim of the policy when he lost his job and struggled to make payments to the account.
Ive thought about this but although Aviva was responsible for the sale of the policy it 
wouldnt be Avivas responsibility to make a claim of the policy on behalf of Mr K.
Mr K says he wasnt aware of the policys existence but in my view the policy premiums 
would likely have shown on Mr Ks statements.
I do accept Mr K experienced a difficult time when he lost his job and struggled financially 
but I dont think I can fairly make an award against Aviva to compensate him for this.
However it may be possible for Mr K to make a backdated claim on the policy. If he wishes 
to do so he should contact the policy insurer in the first instance. He should be aware that if 
he makes a successful backdated claim it is likely the insurer will deduct the compensation 
for the mis-sale from any monies due from the claim. Thats fair because Mr K would not 
have been able to make a claim if he hadnt been sold the policy in the first place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no further award against 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman