DRN-3504228
The complaint
Ms H complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with an account switch.
What happened
Ms H says she went to a HSBC branch to switch her account to it in July 2021. She says 
there was a problem with the application and so it was continued on her telephone online. 
Ms H says she made a number of calls to HSBC and attended her branch, but the 
application was delayed. She says that caused distress and inconvenience and resulted in 
problems with direct debits. Ms H says she would like £1,000 compensation and says her 
other account was closing on 31 August 2021. She says she was offered £150 
compensation which isnt enough.
HSBC says the account application was made online on 31 July 2021 and says the switch 
option was not selected. It says it needed documents from Ms H which were not supplied 
until 20 August 2021. HSBC says it doesnt have a record of offering £150 compensation 
and says it hasnt made a mistake.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was no record of the switch option being selected on the original application 
and that there wasnt a record of telephone calls in which a compensation offer was made. 
The investigator thought HSBC opened the account when the documents were provided and 
didnt think there was evidence of HSBC making a mistake.
Ms H doesnt accept that view and says she will get evidence of the calls. HSBC has 
provided its records in which it doesnt have a record of a call to Ms H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms H will be disappointed by my decision. I make clear I have listened to the 
available calls between Ms H and HSBC and appreciate her frustration about this process.
It is not clear what took place in the HSBC branch in July 2021, but I am satisfied the 
application for the account was made online. I have looked carefully at HSBCs records and I 
am satisfied that the option for an account switch was not selected. I appreciate that is likely 
to have been a mistake as its clear that is what Ms H wanted but I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for that mistake in these circumstances. I think it likely that as that switch option 
was not originally selected that led to the problems and confusion when the account was 
opened.
I can see that HSBC required further information from Ms H before the account was opened 
which was provided in or around 20 August 2021. And I can see that the account was 
opened shortly after that date with Ms H being able to use it before the end of August 2021.
I appreciate that Ms H says she was called by HSBC and offered £150 compensation. There 
is no record of that call from either party. In any event I can see that Ms H says she rejected 
that offer and says she should be paid £1,000 compensation. I have to consider the 
evidence and where incomplete have to consider what I think is likely to have taken place on 
balance. And having done so I think there is likely to have been confusion on both sides here 
as Ms H believed a switch process had started but HSBC didnt have a record of that as the 
option hadnt been selected. I dont think it matters what HSBC may or may not have offered 
in compensation as I have to consider if it made a mistake and if it did, what the level of 
compensation should be.
I have come to the overall view that on balance I cant be sure that HSBC has acted unfairly 
or made a mistake and so cant fairly order it to pay Ms H compensation for any 
inconvenience caused. Im also satisfied that having looked at HSBCs records that it 
checked it records for the telephone calls and spoke to its staff about them but without being 
able to find any trace of them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman