DRN-3670756
The complaint
Mr L complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) under his home emergency policy, about 
their decision not to replace a pump in his boiler under his home emergency policy.
References to UKI include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under the 
policy.
What happened
In January 2022 a problem arose with Mr Ls boiler when a condense pump filled with water 
and caused the boiler to switch off. He contacted UKI, who sent an engineer to look at the 
problem. The engineer was able to get the boiler working again. However, the boiler stopped 
working again and a second visit was arranged. The engineer advised the pump had failed 
and bypassed the pump and the boiler started working again. However, this meant Mr L 
having to collect the water in a bucket and empty it.
The engineer also advised Mr L he would order a new pump and fit it as soon as possible. 
However, when Mr L contacted UKI to ask when the new pump would be fitted, they said 
they wouldnt cover the cost of the replacement pump as it wasnt classed as part of the 
heating system. So, Mr L would have to pay to replace it. They said theyd restored heating 
and hot water (through bypassing the pump) which meant theyd fulfilled their obligation to 
respond to the emergency (the loss of heating and hot water) under the policy.
Unhappy at initially being told the pump would be replaced, but then told it wouldnt be 
covered, Mr L complained to UKI. He said there was no mention in the policy that it wouldnt 
cover the replacement of the pump, and the policy said it covered the cost of parts and 
labour up to £500.
UKI partially upheld the complaint. In their initial final response, UKI said their engineer had 
attended when Mr L first reported the issue and had restored the heating and hot water. 
However, any further work (to replace the pump) wouldnt be covered under the policy, as 
the pump wasnt classed as part of the heating system. However, UKI accepted that Mr L 
had been wrongly advised the pump would be replaced. For being incorrectly advised, UKI 
offered £25 in compensation.
 
Following the initial final response, Mr L contacted UKI again because of the continuing 
issue with water leaking from the boiler (and his having to collect it and empty it). A further 
appointment was scheduled but didnt take place. Mr L complained again to UKI, who issued 
a further final response, which their restated their view the replacement pump wasnt 
covered. But they accepted Mr L had been wrongly advised an engineer would attend [to 
replace the pump] and apologised for his waiting for the engineer to attend. To apologise for 
the missed appointment, UKI offered a further £50 in compensation. 
Unhappy at UKIs final response, Mr L complained to this service. The main point of his 
complaint was that the replacement of the pump should be covered under his policy, up to 
£500 for the cost of labour and parts. He wanted UKI to cover the cost of a replacement 
pump. He also wanted additional compensation on top of the £75 awarded by UKI.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI didnt need to do 
anything more. He noted the terms of the policy stated that UKI wouldnt pay to 
replace pumps (part of the central heating). Based on this, he thought the condense 
pump would fall under the policy exclusion, so UKI had acted fairly under the policy 
terms by declining to cover the cost of replacing the pump. He also thought the 
compensation offered by UKI was fair.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He said his claim was made under the heating section of the 
home emergency section of the policy, not the plumbing and drainage section (where 
the exclusion relating to pumps was included). He thought the exclusion for pumps 
should have been included in the heating section. This meant it wasnt clear, so it was 
unfair for UKI to decline to cover the cost of the replacement pump. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr L.
Id first note that the complaint here is about UKIs response under the home emergency 
section of the policy. This is one section of Mr Ls home insurance policy. UKI are the insurer 
for all sections of the policy, including the home emergency section.
What isnt in dispute is that the pump needed replacement, so the key issue is whether its 
replacement should be covered under the policy. Mr L maintains it should have been 
covered under the policy. He also says the exclusion of cover for pumps wasnt included in 
the heating section of the policy, so it wasnt transparent that it wasnt covered. For their 
part, UKI maintain the pump isnt covered under the home emergency section of the policy, 
and by restoring the heating and hot water system (albeit in a way that meant Mr L had to 
use a bucket to collect and empty the water) meant theyd attended to the emergency. UKI 
have also clarified their view that the pump isnt part of the heating system.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the information and evidence available, 
particularly the terms and conditions of the policy. Having done so, Ive concluded UKI acted 
fairly in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy in saying the replacement 
pump wouldnt be covered under the policy. I know this will be disappointing to Mr L, so Ill 
set out the reasons why Ive come to this conclusion.
UKIs final response stated the replacement pump wasnt covered as it didnt form part of the 
heating system. The policy itself doesnt include a definition of heating system. UKI have 
provided clarification that the pump isnt considered part of the heating system because as 
long as theres a receptacle into which the condensate pipe can drain, the heating system 
will work effectively. Condensate pumps are only required where the discharge point or drain 
is too far away from the boiler to drain naturally. Ultimately, its for UKI to determine what 
they classify as part of the heating system, which may differ according to the specific heating 
system in place.
Given this, Ive gone on to consider whether UKI declining to cover the replacement pump 
was reasonable given the other terms and conditions of the policy. The key term and 
condition here is an exclusion included in the Plumbing and drainage heading of the Home 
Emergency cover section, which states:x We wont pay:
-To replace pumps, water tanks, radiators, cylinders, water softeners, waste 
disposal units, macerators or part of your central heating.
While this is included under the Plumbing and drainage section and not the Heating section, 
I think its clear that it relates to the central heating system and that pumps (as part of your 
central heating) are excluded. As both headings of the [Home Emergency] section of the 
policy are included on the same page of the policy terms and conditions document, I think 
its reasonable to look at the terms and conditions  including what isnt covered  as a 
whole. So, I think UKI have acted fairly in applying the exclusion to say the cost of the 
replacement pump wouldnt be covered.
Ive also considered the question of compensation. UKI awarded a total of £75 
compensation, firstly for their engineer incorrectly saying the replacement pump would be 
covered. And secondly, £50 for the missed appointment. I agree Mr L was inconvenienced 
by both. Considering the circumstances of the case, I think UKIs offer is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman