DRN-2085579
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the settlement offered by Amtrust Europe Limited following a 
claim on their furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R bought a warranty with Amtrust when they purchased a new sofa. At the start 
of 2019 they made a claim on the warranty after a large glass of water was spilled on two of 
the sofa cushions and had left a stain. 
Amtrust inspected the sofa and then attempted to remove the stain. However this wasnt 
successful and the stain was still visible. Instead, it attempted to source the fabric in order to 
replace the two sofa cushions. However the manufacturer said they no longer made the 
same fabric. They provided a sample of the most similar fabric but this wasnt a close 
enough match.
Amtrust therefore said that as it hadnt been able to repair the sofa, then it would offer Mr 
and Mrs the R the choice to either choice a replacement or receive a cash settlement. It 
offered £968.25 for a replacement or £484.13 if they chose to cash settle.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with this offer. They said they would prefer to have the sofa 
completely reupholstered, rather than replaced. And they didnt think the amounts offered 
were enough. They made a complaint.
Amtrust didnt uphold their complaint. It said reupholstering the whole sofa wasnt covered 
under the warranty. It said it had been unable to repair the affected area, so could offer a 
replacement or cash settlement. It said it had calculated the replacement value by applying 
discount given at the time of the sale and had offered 50% of the cost of the matching items 
purchased as a gesture of goodwill. Further it said if they choose to cash settle, under the 
policy it is only required to pay the amount it would cost it to replace the items and this would 
be 50% of the replacement value. 
Mr and Mrs R still didnt think this was fair. They said that reupholstering the sofa would be a 
repair so should be covered under the warranty. They brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that the warranty covered only repairs to the damaged area, so this wouldnt 
include replacing the covering of the whole sofa. She also said that she thought the 
settlement offered was fair and in line with the warranty terms.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the settlement offered by Amtrust. So I need to consider 
whether what it has offered is fair and reasonable.
Amtrust has said that it has settled the claim in line with the warranty terms. Under what is 
covered, the warranty states as follows:
Your product is covered for the cost of repair in the event of a sudden unintentional incident 
resulting in accidental staining
Amtrust started by attempting to repair the damage to the sofa. It did this by trying to remove 
the stain. So I am satisfied that it attempted to fulfil its main obligation under the warranty. 
However, the stain removal wasnt successful. 
The warranty goes on to say:
If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. In the event of 
this not being possible, [retailer] may at its sole discretion provide a replacement product(s).
Alternatively, [retailer] may at its sole discretion settle the claim by a cash payment instead 
of a repair or replacement. Any cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair 
or replacement by [retailer]
In this case the damaged part was two sofa cushions. So under the warranty these could 
be replaced. Amtrust looked into doing this but werent able to obtain a matching fabric. I am 
therefore satisfied that Amtrust exhausted all possible options before moving to offer a 
settlement.
Mr and Mrs R have said that they would have preferred to get the sofa fully reupholstered. 
And they felt that this would fall into the category of a repair, so should be covered under the 
warranty. While I understand why they feel this way, I dont agree this would be covered. 
The warranty covers repairs only to damaged areas of the item. Reupholstering the whole 
sofa would go beyond this remit. So while I understand why Mr and Mrs R would prefer this 
option, I dont think Amtrust has acted unfairly by not offering it.
Once Amtrust had exhausted options to repair the sofa, it moved to offering a settlement. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt think the amount offered was fair. So I have considered whether Amtrust 
calculated the amounts in a fair and reasonable way.
I have looked at the invoice from the original purchase and I can see that the sofa was 
purchased for £1,000. There was an additional item purchased for £234. Then a discount 
was added to the whole order of £239.
Amtrust has explained that in order to calculate the cost, it split the discount across the two 
items. Then offered the discounted amount for the sofa. It also added 50% of the additional 
item as a gesture of good will - as matching items arent covered under the warranty but 
would likely also be replaced. 
I have considered this and think it is a fair calculation. It is reasonable that the amount 
covered under the warranty for a replacement sofa, will reflect how much was paid for the 
original item. Mr and Mrs R have said that they wont be able to find a replacement sofa for 
the amount offered. Although this may be the case, I dont think this means that Amtrust 
should offer a higher settlement. As the warranty covers a replacement to the value of the 
current sofa, it doesnt guard against potential future price rises, so I wouldnt expect more 
than the value of the original purchase to be offered. So although I can appreciate Mr and 
Mrs Rs frustrations I dont think Amtrust has acted unreasonably.Mr and Mrs R also think the cash settlement offer is too low. As quoted above, the warranty 
states:
Any cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement by 
[retailer] 
So Amtrust is only required to pay the amount it would cost it to replace. It has explained that 
it has a trade deal with the supplier which allows it to purchase items at 50% of the value. It 
has shown that the cash settlement is 50% of the value of the items. So Im satisfied that it 
has acted fairly by offering this cash settlement.
For these reasons, I think Amtrust has treated Mr and Mrs R fairly and reasonably when 
choosing how to settle their claim. So I wont require it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Amtrust Europe Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman