DRN-2595596
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) didnt renew his 
home insurance. He is also unhappy with the information Lloyds gave him about why it 
declined him cover.
  
What happened
Towards the end of August 2019, Lloyds wrote to Mr U saying it would not be renewing his 
home insurance at the beginning of October 2019 because of information supplied to it by 
fraud prevention agencies as part of renewal processing.
Mr U contacted Lloyds to try to find out why his renewal had been declined and complained. 
He asked Lloyds if there was anywhere else he could check to find out why it wouldnt offer 
him cover. Lloyds said there was no further information it could give him. Lloyds issued its 
final response letter (FRL) to Mr Us complaint. The FRL said Lloyds performs checks 
through a third party (N) and because of the information it received through these checks, it 
wouldnt be able to offer Mr U home insurance.
Five months later, Mr U contacted Lloyds again. He said hed been going around in circles 
and had got no further with establishing the reasons why Lloyds declined to renew his 
insurance. He said hed spoken to N whod said there was nothing adverse noted against 
him. He told Lloyds the matter had caused him stress and that he has had no cover. 
Lloyds tried twice again to generate a new household insurance quote for Mr U but both 
times it said it was unable to offer him cover. Lloyds told Mr U that there are occasions 
where incorrect information is given by the company that carries out the checks. Lloyds said 
the third party carrying out its fraud database checks was called C, rather than N, and 
suggested Mr U contact C.
Mr U brought his complaint to us. He said his renewal had been declined without a valid 
reason and Lloyds had incorrectly said the checks were carried out by N. He said he wanted 
Lloyds to put things right and renew his cover.
Lloyds contacted us to offer Mr U £150 compensation for inconvenience and stress. Mr U 
told us the experience had been painful and was more complicated than a simple monetary 
offer. He said it was difficult to quantify his losses at this stage, but the impact on him was 
severe and the matter needed full investigation.
Our investigator upheld Mr Us complaint in part, saying that Lloyds doesnt have to offer a 
consumer cover. The investigator felt £150 was fair compensation for the trouble and upset 
Lloyds caused Mr U by incorrectly saying N carried out its checks.
Mr U didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think Lloyds shouldve declined him 
cover based on what a fraud database said. He was unhappy the identity protection he paid 
for hadnt protected him. And said legal cover, which was provided through his household 
insurance, would have been useful to him. Our investigator did not change his view. Mr U 
asked for an ombudsmans decision and the complaint was referred to me.
I asked Mr U some further questions. Mr U said hed been unable to get home contents 
insurance through another provider because when applying, hed be asked to disclose if hed 
been declined insurance before. He wanted his household insurance reinstated and the 
money hed paid for identity protection refunded. Mr U provided us with details of another 
complaint hed raised with this service concerning the placement of the marker.
After Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our 
investigator. Because the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both 
parties a further chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr Us complaint in part. I wasnt 
minded to require Lloyds to reinstate Mr Us household insurance. But I was minded to 
require Lloyds to pay Mr U a total of £250 compensation for his trouble and upset that would 
include the £150 Lloyds had already offered Mr U plus further compensation of £100. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Mr U has a separate complaint with our service about the placement of the marker. Its not 
in dispute that Lloyds didnt place the marker, so this decision only concerns Mr Us renewal 
and the information Lloyds gave him about its fraud database checks.
Its also not in dispute that, at the time of renewal, a fraud database contained information 
about Mr U. Lloyds are free to decide who to insure according to its own criteria and I dont 
think its unreasonable for Lloyds to decline Mr U cover when a fraud database contained 
information about him. I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by not renewing Mr Us cover, 
so I dont intend to require Lloyds to reinstate Mr Us household insurance policy, including 
any legal expenses cover.
Its not in dispute that Lloyds told Mr U its checks are carried out by N when they were 
actually carried out by C. So I think its reasonable Mr U is awarded compensation for the 
trouble and upset the incorrect information caused him. But I dont think £150 compensation 
is a fair reflection of Mr Us trouble and upset. The incorrect information led Mr U to pursue a 
line of enquiry that was never going to help him establish why he was listed on a fraud 
database and caused some months delay to him progressing the matter. I am minded to 
increase this to £250 compensation.
Mr U is also unhappy his identity protection cover didnt give him the protection he thought it 
should. This cover isnt offered by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, so Mr U needs to 
raise these concerns with the entity providing his identity protection cover.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds has accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comment or 
information and Mr Us responses havent persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
findings. So, Ive decided to uphold Mr Us complaint in part and in line with my provisional 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision.
 
Mr U said he understood A [fraud database] member that receives a.warning from the 
system is not allowed automatically to reject an application or to close a facility because of 
the warning. But this statement only appears to say that the member shouldnt automatically 
reject an application - not that the member has to accept an application from a customer with 
a fraud marker.
In my provisional decision, I said an insurer is free to decide who to insure. Insurers set their 
underwriting criteria according to the level of risk they are prepared to accept. And if an 
insurer isnt prepared to accept the risks associated with insuring a consumer with a fraud 
marker, then it doesnt have to insure them.
 
This service cannot tell an insurer who to insure and the level of risk an insurer should 
accept because these are matters for the insurers own commercial judgement. We can only 
consider whether we think an insurer has treated a customer fairly and in line with how it 
would treat other customers in a similar position. And Ive not seen any evidence that Mr U 
has been treated any differently. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to have declined Mr U cover because of the 
fraud marker, despite Mr Us understanding of how a fraud database member should treat 
warnings. If Mr U wishes to pursue this particular concern further, he will need to raise it with 
the Financial Conduct Authority, who is the regulator responsible for setting industry 
standards.
Mr U said that by declining him cover and giving him false and incorrect reasons for doing so 
meant Lloyds breached banking practices and is a clear definition of an unfair relationship. 
And that because of this, Lloyds should offer him cover putting him in the position hed have 
been in had the problem not arisen. 
But I dont think Lloyds have been unreasonable by not offering Mr U household cover. And 
whilst I appreciate that Mr U says the fraud marker was placed incorrectly, Lloyds didnt 
place the marker and so cant verify the circumstances of its placement. It wouldnt then be 
fair for me to instruct Lloyds to cover Mr U and  in doing so - accept a risk it has made a 
commercial decision not to take. 
Mr U said my provisional decision included incorrect statements. I have reviewed again the 
information this service holds about Mr Us complaint provided to us by Lloyds and Mr U. Im 
satisfied my provisional decision accurately reflects the information we have. Mr U says it 
was incorrect to say he told Lloyds he couldnt get cover. But I dont think this is material to 
the outcome of my decision because Mr U told this service separately hed not been able to 
get cover. And I took this into consideration when provisionally deciding fair and reasonable 
compensation for Mr U. 
Mr Us response appears to say my decision should also cover his concerns about his 
identity protection cover and the company he says placed the marker. I appreciate why Mr U 
might think this, given his concerns all appear to stem from the placement of the marker. 
But Mr Us concerns appear to relate to different products and different entities. Mr U has 
already raised a complaint with this service about the placement of the marker against a 
different company to Lloyds. And Mr Us identity protection cover doesnt appear to be 
provided as part of his household insurance. So this service can only consider Mr Us 
concerns about his identity protection cover separately to his complaint about his household insurance - even though, as Mr U says, the providers are under the same umbrella. My 
decision doesnt prevent Mr U from raising concerns about his identity protection cover with 
this service, but hed need to first raise a complaint with the provider of his identity protection 
cover - if he hasnt already done so. 
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Us complaint in part. I instruct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
U a total of £250 compensation for his trouble and upset that should include the £150 Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited has already offered Mr U and further compensation of £100.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr U accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman