DRN-3855251
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a
personal pension (PP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced it would be examining options to restructure its 
business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring 
the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme 
(BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private 
pension arrangement.
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme. Mr E met with an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) in May 2017 to
discuss accessing his pension for the purpose of purchasing a property. Mr E had already
left the DB scheme and was contributing to his employers new defined contribution (DC) 
scheme.
Mr E was referred by the IFA to IFM. A fact find was completed to gather information about 
Mr Es circumstances and objectives at the time of the advice, which included an 
assessment of his attitude to risk (ATR), which was deemed to be moderate. Mr T was 
aged 56 and living with his partner, aged 62. The fact find noted he lived in a property he 
owned, worth around £290,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £39,000. It said he had 
savings of around £51,000 and that he was working full time, earning £40,000 per year, not 
including overtime and bonuses. It was noted that Mr E wanted to access £100,000 in TFC 
to help him move house as soon as possible, and that he wanted to retire immediately, 
requiring £2,000 per month to live on.
Mr E had a preserved final salary pension that was projected to pay a pension of £31,191 
from age 65. If Mr E wanted to retire early from it and access TFC then hed receive a 
reduced pension of £16,062 a year with TFC of £107,086. Prior to the transfer Mr Es DB 
scheme had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of £766,296.20. And Mr Es DC scheme was 
currently worth around £3,000. 
On 1 August 2017, IFM advised Mr E to transfer his DB pension benefits into a PP. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr E required flexibility and control over his income in retirement to suit his 
circumstances. And that he was prepared to accept more risk for this. 
Mr E wanted to maximise his TFC  upon transfer he could access £191,574, half of 
which hed use towards purchasing his new property and then hed use the rest to 
live on until he turned 60, after which hed draw an income from his PP.
Mr E was concerned around the security of his DB scheme and it entering the PPF.
Mr E was concerned his partner and children may not benefit from his OPS in the 
event of his death, as they werent married.
In October 2017, remaining members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter 
giving them to the option to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to choose was 11 December 2017 
(later extended to 22 December 2017), with moves anticipated to start taking place from the 
end of March 2018. 
But Mr T had accepted IFMs advice and his benefits in the BSPS were transferred to his 
new PP around the same time in October 2017 and he took his full TFC entitlement. 
In May 2018, Mr E went on to sell his property for £287,000 and purchased a new one for 
£367,000. And, in 2020, Mr E complained to IFM about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because he said he realised hed be worse off having transferred his DB scheme.
IFM didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said, in summary, that while Mr E could just about 
achieve his objective of moving to a new house if hed stayed in his DB scheme he couldnt 
have retired early, as the scheme income fell short of the £2,000 monthly income he 
required and he wouldnt have had enough savings left to bridge this gap until his state 
pension became payable at age 67. It said Mr Es responses support his moderate ATR 
and that he had a high capacity for loss, such that Mr Es DB scheme would only enhance 
his lifestyle, given his partner was in receipt of a company pension and that theyd each 
receive a state pension. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our Service, adding that he took a job when he moved house, 
just to get out of house a few days a week. But, following the impact of Covid-19 on the 
market hes been worried about his pension, so hes been doing increased hours rather than 
taking an income. He also said the move was for his partner to care for her mother  she 
gave up her job to become her full-time carer, although she still receives her monthly income 
from her annuity and now receives her state pension.
One of our Investigators didnt uphold the complaint, saying that while the transfer was likely 
to leave Mr E worse off in retirement, it was suitable as it allowed him to achieve his 
objective of purchasing a new property and retiring immediately with a monthly income of 
£2,000. They said Mr E wouldnt have been able to retire when he did with this income if 
hed taken early retirement from his DB scheme. They also said that as Mr E told us he 
wasnt intending to marry his partner, the transfer ensured shed be entitled to his pension 
upon his death, when she wouldnt if hed remained in his DB scheme. And that they felt the 
investments IFM recommended Mr E invest his fund in following the transfer were suitable. 
Mr E disagreed saying, in summary, that:
At the time he required £100,000 towards a house purchase. IFM knew he intended 
to use the remaining TFC following the transfer to live on and he ought to have been 
advised to leave this invested and to take further amounts up to the TFC value as 
and when needed. In any case, he ought to have been advised to take early 
retirement and TFC from his DB scheme, as this would have allowed for what he 
needed to purchase a house. His income requirements would mostly have been 
covered by this, and any additional expenditure could have been met with any 
remaining TFC and his £51,000 in savings.  
IFM didnt push him on why he needed £2,000 per month to live on, basing him 
giving up guaranteed benefits on a desire rather than need. And it didnt consider his 
partners income. 
He could have gotten a mortgage if the TFC from his DB scheme wasnt enough to 
buy a house, due to the guaranteed income he would have received from it. He might have chosen to marry his partner or enter a civil partnership in future. 
So the complaints been referred to me for a decision. And I issued a provisional decision 
saying the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Im minded to uphold Mr Es 
complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate this was in Mr Es best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was.
Financial viability 
IFM hasnt suggested the transfer was likely to result in higher retirement benefits for Mr E, 
rather it was suitable for him to transfer to meet his other objectives. It said in the suitability 
report that as Mr E was looking to retire immediately  which he doesnt dispute  the most 
meaningful way to assess the benefits he was giving up was by determining what annuity  
Mr E could get with his available fund, rather than looking at the growth required for the 
recommended transfer to match the guaranteed benefits offered by the DB scheme (the 
critical yield). 
Having done so, IFM said the annuity income Mr E could achieve was significantly less than 
what was available from his scheme. In which case, as IFM seems to accept that Mr E was 
likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of transferring from his DB scheme, due to the 
guaranteed benefits he was giving up, I havent considered this any further. Instead Ive focussed on whether it was right for IFM to recommend the transfer in spite of this for other 
reasons. 
Flexibility and income
IFM says the only way Mr E could achieve his objectives were to transfer out of the scheme 
to a PP. It says he needed maximum TFC to help purchase a new property but he didnt 
want to take an income of £2,000 per month until age 60. IFM said Mr E would live off the 
remaining TFC and his savings until then. Mr E doesnt dispute that he wanted to retire early 
and its clear he was motivated by the idea of taking TFC to help him purchase a new 
property. However, I currently think he could have achieved this by staying in his DB 
scheme. 
IFM doesnt dispute that Mr E could still have purchased his new property, which cost him 
£367,000, if hed taken early retirement from his DB scheme. But it says that to do so Mr E 
would have had to add £119,000 to the £248,000 equity he was due to receive from the sale 
of his current property, with legal fees and costs on top, which would have used up all Mr Es 
TFC and left him with far less savings to live off in the way he wanted to. It says this means 
Mr E wouldnt have been able to afford to retire early, as his remaining savings wouldnt 
bridge the gap for long between his BSPS income of £1,260 (net) and the £2,000 per month 
he said he needed to live on.  
Looking firstly at Mr Es intentions to buy a new property, IFM needed to consider the 
information at the time at the time of the advice. I can see Mr E told it he needed £100,000 in 
TFC to do so and I think that taking early retirement from his BSPS would have given him 
this, given he was entitled to £107,086. In which case, even when accounting for legal fees 
and moving costs, Mr E would have been left with all his £51,000 in savings. I recognise    
Mr E went on to purchase a more expensive property, causing him to use more of his TFC 
and savings, but this is only known with the benefit of hindsight. And I think this was likely to 
have been influenced by the fact Mr E had more cash available to him following the transfer. 
Turning to Mr Es desire to retire early, I think IFMs job was to interrogate his income needs 
in retirement and look at his options, but I cant see that it did this. Instead I think it took it at 
face value that Mr E needed £2,000 per month, which I think led to his decision to transfer 
from his DB scheme. Mr Es told us this income was a desire rather than a reality. And from 
the information IFM gathered at the time it seems Mr Es actual household expenditure was 
around £1,100 per month, after taking into account that he intended to repay the mortgage 
on his existing property. And, even when accounting for around £500 in additional costs for 
some enjoyment in retirement, this gives total monthly household expenditure of £1,600.  
Mr E would have had a monthly income of £1,260 from his DB scheme, as well as his 
partners monthly annuity income of around £400, and his savings to cover any unforeseen 
expenditure. Mr Es partners state pension would also have become payable within four 
years of the advice, at age 66. And as she was intending to give up her job and become her 
mothers carer  which IFM appears to have known at the time in light of its advisers more 
recent testimony  she had the potential to apply for benefits, including carers allowance. 
But IFM doesnt seem to have explored or taken these things into account when I think it 
should have been a consideration. In which case, I dont think Mr E needed to transfer from 
his DB scheme to achieve a realistic income to retire early.  
 
This is still the case even if Mr E did go on to need more than £100,000 to buy a property, in 
the way he did. He could have lived off his BSPS income and his partners annuity income in 
the way Ive set out above and I think his savings would have covered the additional amount 
he spent on a house, leaving him with around £25,000 still.Mr E doesnt seem to dispute he had a moderate ATR. In which case, while Mr E was 
willing to take some risk, I dont think he wanted to take a large amount of risk or that he had 
the capacity to do so. Not least because he said in the fact find that his DB scheme 
represented a significant proportion of his overall retirement fund. Im also mindful that Mr E 
was stopping working immediately, so needed a secure income. So I think its unlikely Mr E 
wouldve given up the guaranteed benefits that his DB scheme offered if IFM had advised 
him to remain in it. 
Overall, I dont think it was suitable advice for IFM to recommend Mr E transfer his
DB benefits to a PP to facilitate the purchase of a house and to retire early. For the above 
reasons, I think that taking the DB scheme benefits at the time wouldve enabled Mr E to 
meet these objectives and would have been in his best interests. So, on balance, I think IFM 
shouldve advised Mr E to remain in his DB scheme and take his benefits from it instead. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a PP was likely an attractive feature to Mr E, given he and his partner werent 
married and hes told us they had no intention of getting married at the time of the advice. 
Mr E has since said that he wouldve been prepared to consider marriage or a civil 
partnership. And had he been advised to remain in the DB scheme, knowing that his partner 
wouldnt qualify for a spouses pension, I think on balance its likely he wouldve given this 
more thought as he got older. So, I dont think IFM could say with certainty that Mr Es 
partner would never have benefitted from the DB scheme.
Nevertheless, while I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a PP because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mr E about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And Mr E said in the fact find that he 
only wanted to increase the death benefits if this doesnt reduce his own potential retirement 
benefits. So I dont think Mr E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits. And in any event, if investment returns were poor or    
Mr E lived a long life there may not have been a large sum to pass on when he died.
Furthermore, if Mr E genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner, which didnt depend
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think IFM
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Its possible this may have been expensive due to 
Mr Es age, but a small sum could have been affordable. Regardless, I think this shouldve 
been explored at the time.
Im also mindful that once Mr Es state pension became payable, he may have had excess 
income that he couldve saved for the benefit of his partner or children. This wouldve 
provided a means for him to pass his pension on without risking his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a PP justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And I cant see that IFM explored alternatives.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr E was concerned about his pension and I recognise hed opted out of the existing 
scheme. But I think this was likely due to his concerns over its viability and the fact it was 
likely to close. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the 
scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and thought hed he preferred to have control over his pension fund.So, its quite possible Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of
the concerns he had about his employer and the PPF. However, it was IFMs obligation to
give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest.
And given that I think Mr E shouldve been advised to take his benefits immediately, I think
that IFM shouldve reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as
concerning as he thought. Mr Es TFC wouldnt have been affected because hed have
taken it before the scheme moved. And although his annual pension was likely to be
reduced once the move completed, I dont think the reduction wouldve been significant
because the early retirement factors were more favourable under the PPF, particularly where
TFC had been taken. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to IFM
recommending Mr E transfer out of the DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that access to the TFC and potential for higher death benefits on offer
through a PP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr E. But IFM wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr E might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr E needed and recommend what was in his best interests. Overall,          
I dont think that transferring out of the DB scheme was in Mr Es best interests as
he had other options available to him to meet his objectives. I think by taking his benefits, 
Mr E wouldve been able to achieve his key objective of moving home and he wouldve had 
sufficient income to meet his needs, when taking into account his remaining savings.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr E was likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and I dont think it was in his best interest. As Ive said above,
I think suitable advice in Mr Es circumstances wouldve been to take his DB scheme
benefits. This wouldve meant Mr E remained in the scheme and moved with it to the PPF.
Im not persuaded Mr E wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme anyway, 
against IFMs advice. I say this because, whilst Mr E mayve been engaged in the process, 
he was an inexperienced investor with a balanced ATR and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and 
how he could meet his objectives by instead taking his benefits from the DB scheme, I think 
he wouldve accepted that advice.
Ive thought about Mr Es concerns about the security of the scheme. But I dont think these 
were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
Especially given he wouldve already been able to take his TFC before the scheme moved to 
the PPF and his annual income was unlikely to have been reduced by that much.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for comparison
purposes.
Mr Es explained he felt the need to increase his work hours rather than taking an income 
from his pension due to market volatility, which he wouldnt have otherwise needed to worry 
about as he would have had a guaranteed income. So, I think IFM should pay Mr E £300 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances, when also considering its only recently 
that Mr Es found out the advice was unsuitable. 
IFM responded to my provisional decision saying, in summary, that Mr E is better off than if 
he had remained in his DB scheme, providing a cashflow model to support its position. IFM 
also said Mr E was offered to be put in the position of not transferring, i.e. purchasing an 
annuity, but declined this as he wants to enjoy his retirement. So it feels that unless we 
recommend an annuity for Mr E then any compensation we award will defeat the purpose of 
the guaranteed income he would have been entitled to under his DB scheme, as he will be 
able to spend it as he pleases. 
Mr E responded saying that the Time to Choose booklet says that where a member is 
under 65 and already receiving a pension they would have been best suited to opting into 
BSPS2. In response, I let Mr E know that if he would have retired immediately  in the way 
he did in October 2017  from his existing scheme, then I understand he would have moved 
with his scheme to the PPF and that BSPS2 wasnt an option. I said I havent seen any 
evidence to show otherwise, having also considered the Time to Choose booklet. And         
I invited Mr E to provide any evidence to support that it was. 
I also said that even if Mr E could have waited a few more months to retire until after the time 
to choose deadline of 11 December 2017, I still think its likely he would have opted into the 
PPF. This is because the reduction under the PPF for retiring early was lower than BSPS2 
and would have offset the PPFs 10% starting entitlement reduction. And so both the starting 
income and the TFC would likely have been higher with the PPF and made up for the lower 
inflationary increases than under BSPS2.
I said were looking to put Mr E back in the position he would have been in as far as 
possible. And that I think the redress Id previously suggested is fair to do this, including that 
the benefits offered by the PPF should be used for comparison purposes. And, in response, 
Mr E said he accepts my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Im upholding this complaint as I maintain that the 
advice given to Mr E to transfer out of his DB scheme was unsuitable, for the reasons given 
in my provisional decision.  
I note IFM says Mr E should be compelled to purchase an annuity  it believes he would turn 
this down, thereby demonstrating his desire for flexibility. It is evident Mr E will benefit from 
flexibility by virtue of the position he is in now, but that has only arisen because of the 
unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate 
redress to put right instances of unsuitable DB pension transfer advice. And I think that 
represents fair compensation in this case.
I appreciate IFM feels that Mr E is better off, but it has provided a cashflow model rather than 
redress calculation to evidence this, which I note was completed a number of months ago. 
And its unclear to me what method it used to establish this. So I think IFM should do an up 
to date calculation, in line with what the regulator deems to be appropriate redress, as set 
out below. I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have 
remained a member of BSPS and taken his benefits at that time  he would subsequently 
have moved with the scheme to the PPF. So calculations should be undertaken on this 
assumption.  
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr E didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Given I think Mr E would have retired and taken benefits from his existing scheme at the 
time of the advice, I think compensation should be based on him doing so at that age.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
IFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
IFM receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IFM to 
pay Mr E.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IFM deducts income tax from the interest, 
it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. IFM should give Mr E a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the outcome of the 
consultation is published, Id expect IFM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late April 2023. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr E has retired and, for reasons already given, I think he would have done so and then 
moved with the scheme to the PPF. And, even if he could have waited a few more months to 
retire, I think he would have opted into the PPF and done so shortly after. Even in the latter case, due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the 
PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) 
that entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr E. As such, I 
think its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could 
be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason IFM should undertake a redress calculation on the current known basis, 
rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to 
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr E accepts this decision he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set out 
above. Its important Mr E is aware that once any final decision has been issued, if accepted, 
it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
IFM should also pay Mr E £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by the unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that IFM 
pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts any final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd.
 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman