DRN-3340419
The complaint
Mr W complained that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Lendable provided a loan to Mr W as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableLoan 
status
12/08/2018 £3,000 60 months £80.49. £4,792.26.. Repaid 
15/05/2019
When Mr W complained to Lendable it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and ultimately she thought 
that Lendable shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and set out directions indicating what 
Lendable should do to put things right. 
Lendable disagreed. It mainly said that its checks showed the loan was affordable and, given 
that Mr W said he would use the loan to repay other debt, it couldve helped him improve his 
financial situation overall.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Lendable did its own background checks to verify Mr Ws income and was satisfied it could 
rely on his average earnings being around £2,531 each month.
Lendable told us that it relied substantially on the information automatically reported by 
banks to credit reference agencies as this meant it was reliable. This included information 
about the money being paid into and out of Mr Ws current accounts. 
Lendable also carried out its own credit checks. Lendable saw that:
most of Mr Ws outstanding debt was a hire purchase agreement with a balance of 
£19,871 which cost him £319 each month
he was £258 overdrawn on a current account with a £2,000 overdraft limit
he had credit card accounts with a total balance of £2,887
he owed a little over £3,000 in respect of two loans with monthly repayments of £52 
and £59 respectively
no accounts were in arrears or showing late payments during the last 20 months.
Bearing in mind that the loan was for the purpose of debt consolidation, and it would have 
been enough to clear his credit cards or most of his two other loans, Lendable was satisfied 
that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr W.
I dont know the exact figures Lendable relied on when it made its lending decision. But 
I think our adjudicator was correct in saying that, regardless of whether the loan looked like it 
should be affordable, the lenders checks werent proportionate. This was a substantial loan 
that Mr W was signing up to pay over the next five years so Lendable needed to be satisfied 
that he would be able to make the loan repayments sustainably over the whole loan term. 
I think Lendable shouldve been concerned to see Mr W had taken out two other loans within 
the previous nine months and he was making full use of his credit cards. One of his cards 
had been taken out just four months or so earlier and he had immediately used most of the 
available credit it offered in the first month  and that card had stuck on that balance since. It 
was also apparent that hed been making minimum monthly repayments only on a card that 
had a balance of almost £1,200 for the last eight months reported on the credit checks. 
Repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into the balance 
owing and effectively extend the debt and can add significantly to the long term cost of that 
credit. 
Looked at overall, I think there were clear signs that Mr W was already under financial stress 
 borne out by the fact that he was seeking a loan in order to repay other debt, which can be 
an expensive option, so it isnt something Id expect someone managing credit well would be 
likely to want to do. And given the information on the credit report it saw, I think Lendable 
shouldve done more in-depth checks to ensure it had a proper understanding Mr Ws overall 
financial situation so it could be satisfied this loan wouldnt be detrimental to him. 
This means I need to look at what better checks would most likely have shown Lendable.
Bank statements provided by Mr W are a useful guide to understanding his overall financial 
situation at the time. These show that in the three months running up to him applying for this loan, Mr W was making full use of his £2,000 arranged overdraft limit  the account was 
stuck in persistent overdraft often close to the account limit. And as his monthly pay on 
average was approximately £1,800 in the 3 months running up to him applying for this loan, 
this meant he was unable to bring his account back up to a nil balance. It looks like he 
mightve been able to rely on another small regular payment (around £250) also going into 
his account each month  and this may go some way towards explaining the difference 
between the verified income amount Lendable relied on  but it makes no overall difference 
to his financial situation and it wasnt enough to allow Mr W to repay his overdraft. 
This meant that Mr W was repaying his credit commitments using borrowed money from the 
bank  effectively shifting his debt between lenders. So the fact that Lendable saw hed been 
routinely clearing the balance on his smallest credit card wasnt a reason to think he was in 
control of his spending, especially as the available credit on the card was used again the 
following month. 
I think, had Lendable completed what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check, it 
would likely have seen further signs that Mr W was already in serious financial difficulty and, 
despite what its affordability assessment might have shown, realised that Mr W was unlikely 
to be able to afford its loan. 
I've taken into account that the loan was intended for debt consolidation  and it does seem 
mostly to have been used to settle two big accounts (I can see settlement payments of 
£1,362 and £1,198 on Mr W s bank statement). But given the relative loan value compared 
to the extent of Mr Ws overall indebtedness on unsecured loans, credit cards and his 
overdraft, I dont think Lendable had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his 
overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
financial situation. 
I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr W borrowed further from another provider of high 
cost credit barely a week later. And even though the loan from Lendable took his account out 
of overdraft, by the end of the same day it was paid into his account Mr W was overdrawn 
again  and back up to his overdraft limit by the time his pay next went into his account.
And I think theres a further reason why Lendable shouldve reasonably seen that the loan 
was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr W. The monthly repayments for this loan and 
his vehicle finance alone amounted to at least 25% of his verified income. This didnt include 
repayments he also had to make to his credit cards or allow for his overdraft. I think in reality 
that Mr W needed to pay such a significant proportion of his income towards meeting his 
credit commitments that he was unlikely to be able to sustain the repayments for this loan 
over the five year term.
The fact that the loan was repaid early doesnt mean Mr W was able to do so in a way that 
was sustainably affordable for him. 
For all these reasons, I think it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr W would most likely 
remain in serious financial trouble. And I believe that if Lendable had done a proportionate 
check it ought reasonably to have recognised that this loan was likely to be detrimental to 
Mr W and not provided it. 
So, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint that he should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed.
Lendable should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lendable should try and 
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr W bearing in mind its obligation to 
treat Mr W sympathetically and fairly if he still needs further time to pay
    whilst its fair that Mr Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Lendable should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. Lendable 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lendable Ltd to take the steps I've set out above to put 
things right for Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman