DRN-2126951
The complaint
Mr A complains that Swinton Group Ltd cancelled his motor insurance policy without his 
authorisation so that he was left to pay the outstanding premium. 
What happened
Mr As car wasnt driveable, so he called Swinton to discuss his policy options. He was told 
he had 14 days to put another car on cover, or he could cancel the policy but would owe 
£2,150. Mr A said Swinton cancelled his policy without his authorisation. Mr A said hed later 
got his car repaired and didnt want to have to pay twice over for his insurance. Swinton 
wasnt able to reinstate his policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A had an open 
claim on his policy. So, if he cancelled, then he thought the full premium would need to be 
paid. He thought Swinton hadnt given Mr A any misleading or conflicting information. He 
thought Mr A had asked for his policy to be cancelled. The investigator thought he wasnt 
able to use or replace his car, so he didnt have any other option. 
Mr A said he hadnt given his consent to the cancellation. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed, so its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As problem started when he had an accident two months into his policy year. His car 
was taken to a garage, but it couldnt then be repaired or replaced. I cant reasonably hold 
Swinton responsible for this. Mr A called Swinton to discuss his options and he said he was 
given conflicting information.  
Ive listened to these calls. I think Mr A made it clear to Swinton on several occasions that he 
wanted to cancel his policy. The advisors then explained his cancellation costs, which were 
high. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that under the policys 
cancellation terms, it states:
You may cancel your policy at any other time by letting Swinton Insurance know. If no claim 
has been made or is anticipated in the period of insurance, we will refund the premium for 
the exact number of days left on your policy.
If you have made a claim in the period of insurance and we have been unable to recover our 
costs from an identifiable, third party deemed to be responsible, we will not refund any 
premium.
Mr A had an open claim on his policy at the time of the cancellation. This is regarded as a 
fault claim, until its proven not to be. And so, although I can understand Mr As frustration, I 
think Swinton was correct in telling Mr A that the full premium would be payable in the event 
of cancellation. I think this is in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr A made several calls to Swinton to discuss his cancellation options. Mr A said that he 
was provided with conflicting information. But I think he was switched to the underwriter at 
times and he may have confused the claims process with Swintons role as broker. I havent 
seen that Swinton gave Mr A conflicting information. 
One of Swintons advisors terminated her call with Mr A. I think the call had become 
unproductive as Mr A wasnt listening to what she was saying and tried to speak over her. 
The advisor warned Mr A that she would end the call. And so, whilst I can appreciate Mr As 
frustration, I cant say that the advisors level of service was at fault. 
So I think Mr A made it clear to Swinton that he wanted to cancel his policy. I think it acted 
on his instruction. I think Swinton made it clear to Mr A that he would need to pay his full 
years premium in the event of the cancellation due to the open claim. So I cant say its 
unfair or unreasonable for Swinton to ask Mr A to pay his full premium. Mr A said he cant 
afford to pay for his outstanding premiums in full. I think Swinton should reasonably allow 
him to repay this by instalments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman