DRN-3224382
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) handled her claim and the amount it offered to settle the loss of jewellery 
under her Home and Lifestyle policy.
What happened
Mrs C had Home and Lifestyle insurance with NFU, which shed renewed each year since 
the policy first started in 2016. Her policy included cover for contents and personal 
belongings. 
While on holiday, Mrs C lost three pieces of jewellery. She made a claim under her policy, 
which NFU accepted, but she was unhappy that it took almost three weeks to set up her 
claim.
NFU made a settlement offer of just over £8,000 but Mrs C thought it shouldve offered over 
£9,000 in line with the jewellery valuations shed obtained. She complained to NFU about:
the settlement offer;
the delay setting up the complaint;
failing to refer her to a manager when she asked;
items still on her policy for which shed previously made (settled) claims, and
its failure to provide the like-for-like cover shed taken out.
NFU agreed that it had fallen short in the level of service it provided to Mrs C. In recognition 
of that it offered compensation of £200. However, NFU said the cover wasnt provided on a 
like-for-like basis and it said the settlement offer was in line with the policy.
Our investigator didnt think NFU had done anything wrong. She thought NFUs offer of £200 
was fair compensation for the service shortfalls. And our investigator thought NFU had 
offered to settle the claim in line with the policy terms, which she couldnt find any evidence 
of being on a like-for-like basis. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She said she felt forced into accepting NFUs offer of compensation 
because it was time-bound. Mrs C also said NFUs delays caused her further loss because 
the price of gold changed, meaning she couldnt replace her lost jewellery for the amount it 
offered.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
my provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint, although I should be clear from the 
start that Im not planning to ask NFU to pay the amount she asked for. Ill explain why.
My role here is to look at whether there is any merit in what Mrs C says about the level of 
service NFU provided, and whether it made a settlement offer in line with the terms of the 
policy. Im not required to comment on every piece of evidence, so Ill focus on those which 
help to explain how Ive reached my decision. Ill address the complaint under three broad 
headings  customer service; claim settlement, and mis-sale. NFU has agreed for our 
service to consider the mis-sale element of Mrs Cs complaint here, because it is directly 
linked to the settlement offer.
Customer service
Mrs C was unhappy with:
the delay setting up her claim; 
NFUs agent failing to refer her to a manager; 
what she considered to be criminal-like questioning about her claim; 
items on her policy for which shed previously claimed, and 
feeling forced to accept the compensation offered.
NFU accepted that it hadnt set up Mrs Cs claim promptly and, after listening to the call 
recordings, it agreed that she shouldnt have had to ask several times to be referred to a 
manager. Theres no dispute that these service shortfalls happened, so Ive thought about 
whether NFUs offer of £200 compensation is fair. I think it is. While these shortfalls will have 
caused Mrs C inconvenience and upset, I think £200 by way of apology adequately 
addresses the three weeks delay. NFU also removed the items from the policy which 
shouldnt have still been on there and refunded the premium to Mrs C. It confirmed it would 
do the same for this policy claim. That means Mrs Cs policy has been corrected and the 
compensation is for the inconvenience and upset alone.
While I understand Mrs C might not have liked being asked so many questions when making 
her claim, this is something that NFU must do to obtain all relevant facts. I cant see that Mrs 
C has suffered any direct loss here that NFU needs to put right, and I cant reasonably say it 
was wrong of NFU to ask the questions. I dont think theres anything for NFU to put right 
here.
Mrs C said she felt pressured into accepting NFUs compensation offer to address these 
issues. Having listened to the call recording of NFUs offer to Mrs C, I cant agree that it tried 
to pressure her. NFU made a clear offer to Mrs C and referred her to our service promptly. 
Im satisfied that NFU was clear that the compensation would be sent to her regardless, and 
she was still free to take her complaint further. I dont consider this to be pressure to accept 
the offer in final settlement.
Overall, while there were some shortfalls in service, Im satisfied that NFU acknowledged 
them and put matters right where it could. Its offer of £200 fairly compensates Mrs C for the 
issues Ive considered here, and I wont be asking NFU to increase its offer.
Claim settlement
Having agreed that there was an avoidable delay setting up the claim, that brings me to Mrs 
Cs complaint that NFUs delay caused her to lose settlement value because of the changing price of gold. Ive looked at the policy to decide whether NFU treated her claim in line with 
the terms and conditions. 
The policy says Mrs C was insured for, The costs of repairing or replacing damage or loss 
to your items, including accidental damage, up to the amount you have chosen. NFU 
confirmed it didnt provide any recommendations when Mrs C took out the policy, and Ive 
seen that the documents it sent to her at each renewal asked her to make sure she had 
insured everything for the right amount. Ive also seen that the amount each piece of 
jewellery was insured for is set out clearly in the schedule. Under Personal Belongings 
Insurance on the Insurance Product Information Document, it says:
What is not insured
Any costs of replacing, repairing or restoring your contents above the amount youve 
insured them for.
I think the documents are clear and that NFU made Mrs C aware that she needed to make 
sure she had adequate cover, and that cover would only be provided for the amount she 
insured her belongings for.
But, Mrs C says NFUs delays caused her to lose out because the value of her gold jewellery 
changed. Ive looked at the policy documents, including those issued at renewal, and note 
that NFU states the following:
Sums insured
Please check your insurance schedule to make sure everything's insured for the right 
amount. Where the insured amount is too low, any claim you make may be reduced to 
reflect this.
Again, I think this is clear. It was Mrs Cs responsibility to ensure that shed bought the right 
level of cover for her belongings. I understand she thinks its unreasonable to obtain a 
valuation of her jewellery each year. However, insurers price the policy in line with the value 
of risk, so I cant agree that its unreasonable NFU expected her to provide up to date 
information about the value of her belongings.
Mis-sale
At this point, Ill include consideration of Mrs Cs mis-selling complaint about whether NFU 
shouldve covered her jewellery on a like-for-like basis. Having looked through the policy 
documents, I havent seen anything to suggest that cover was provided on that basis; nor 
have I seen any evidence from Mrs C that she purchased like-for-like cover. That said, it 
seems to me that Mrs C may have made this assumption from the wording in NFUs policy 
about how it will settle claims:
We will settle claims as follows:
for all other items We will pay the cost of repairing or replacing the items.
We may, at Our option, replace Your belongings or arrange for repairs to be carried out.
The most We will pay for:
specified items is the insured replacement cost;
as shown on Your schedule, and any extra amount for Index Linking.
I can see how the reference to index linking (which Ill refer to as inflation from here on) 
mightve led Mrs C to understand that any settlement for her jewellery would be in line with 
rising costs, thereby assuming it was on a like-for-like basis. However, thats not quite what 
the policy is saying. Ill explain using the pair of earrings as an example.When Mrs C took out her policy in 2016, she insured the earrings for £1,200. That meant 
she shouldve been confident that they wouldve cost £1,200 to replace at that time because, 
as Ive said, NFU was clear about making sure everything was insured for the right amount. 
The following year, at renewal, NFU automatically increased the cover for the earrings to 
£1,236 in line with inflation and priced the policy accordingly. The same happened for the 
next two years, with the earrings covered for £1,281 and then £1,318. NFU confirmed that 
Mrs C didnt provide an up to date valuation for the earrings at any point after policy 
inception.
I think the disagreement has arisen because of a misunderstanding about what the extra 
amount for index linking means when settling a claim. NFU defined index linking in the 
policy documents as:
The monthly adjustment We will make to the limit You have chosen. Your renewal 
premium will be based on the adjusted amount. We work out the adjustment as follows:
For the Contents, Contents plus, Personal belongings and Jewellery covers - in line 
with the Retail Price Index.
So, NFU increased the level of cover each year in line with the retail price index (RPI) based 
on the value of the earrings as declared by Mrs C. NFU didnt increase cover to reflect an up 
to date valuation of the earrings, nor was it expected to. NFU is simply making sure that 
cover for the earrings, valued at £1,200 originally, is kept in line with the RPI. Any change in 
the value of gold is assessed using a different index and that was Mrs Cs responsibility to 
check at renewal and provide NFU with up to date valuations for her cover. Its likely the 
policy premium wouldve changed to reflect any increase in value too. 
In summary, then, I dont think Mrs C took out a like-for-like policy and as the sale was non-
advised, I cant reasonably say NFU did anything wrong here. 
Claim settlement
But, going back to the settlement offer, Mrs C did take out a policy which protected her 
against loss as a result of inflation. What this means is, Mrs Cs earrings were covered at a 
value of £1,200 which increased to £1,318 in line with the RPI. So, any settlement NFU 
offered must reflect the value she declared, plus the index-linked uplift. 
Ive looked at NFUs offer which was for the exact amount of cover stated on Mrs Cs policy 
schedule in December 2019. Mrs C made her claim in July 2020. But, as previously 
explained, the policy states:
The most We will pay for:
specified items is the insured replacement cost;
as shown on Your schedule, and any extra amount for Index Linking.
So, any settlement part way through the policy year would attract an additional payment to 
reflect the monthly RPI changes  that is, the extra amount for index linking. As NFUs 
settlement offer was the same as the amount stated in the schedule, it seems unlikely that it 
calculated the extra amount for index linking for the seven months of the policy term which 
had already passed. Its for that reason that I dont think NFUs settlement offer to Mrs C is 
fair or in line with the policy terms.
Ive seen in NFUs file that the claim team recorded an uplift of £150.65 was due for the 
period between policy renewal and the date of loss. Its not clear why this wasn't offered to Mrs C. To put this right, I think NFU should make a new settlement offer to Mrs C which 
includes the extra amount of £150.65 for index linking.
I realise Mrs C was hoping to receive the full replacement cost of her jewellery, as 
determined in an independent valuation. But, as Ive explained, the terms of the policy dont 
provide for an increase in the value of gold, specifically. So, Ive no reason to ask NFU to 
pay more than the index linked amount.
In summary, Im satisfied that the policy doesnt require NFU to settle the claim in line with 
the value of gold or on a like-for-like basis, and its offer of £200 by way of apology is fair in 
the circumstances. However, I dont think NFUs settlement offer was in line with the policy 
terms because it didnt provide for nine months index linked uplift in the value of cover.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require The National 
Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
make a new settlement offer to Mrs C which includes the extra amount of £150.65 for 
index linking.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs C acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but she didnt make any further 
comments.
NFU agreed it couldve offered the uplift sooner and it accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NFU accepted my provisional decision, and Mrs C didnt make any further submissions or 
provide further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint and The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must:
make a new settlement offer to Mrs C which includes the extra amount of £150.65 for 
index linking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman