DRN-1640598
 
The complaint
Mr L, complains on behalf of H a limited company that Barclays Bank PLC UK, trading as 
Barclaycard PLC, stopped providing payment services to H, withheld their funds and 
charged them unfairly. 
What happened
Mr L is a director of H. 
H started an agreement with Barclaycard to provide them payment services in March 2019. 
To find the best agreement they employed a third party Ill call F. 
On the 2 May 2019 Barclaycard sent a letter to Mr L. The bank explained that H had 
breached the terms and conditions of the agreement and it was being terminated with 
immediate effect. They also explained that funds may be withheld for a period of up to 6 
months to protect Barclaycard from any liabilities. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Barclaycards actions and complained to the bank. The bank 
responded to say theyd acted within the terms and conditions of the account, and wouldnt 
be doing anything further. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Barclaycards response so complained to our service. He asked for 
Barclaycard to apologise, compensate them for the losses incurred, return the withheld 
funds plus 8% interest and refund the £200 investigation fee. 
Barclaycard explained that to date theyd received six chargeback requests for transactions 
in April and May 2019 and theyd be releasing any remaining funds in September 2019. On 
the 13 September 2019 Barclaycard released the remaining funds of £13,115.55. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt think that Barclaycard 
needed to do anything further. In summary they said that Barclaycard had acted within the 
terms and conditions of the agreement when immediately terminating the account, 
withholding the funds and charging a £200 investigation fee. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators outcome. In summary he said:
Barclaycard never should have allowed the business to on board in the first place, 
as they regard it as high risk.
As a result Barclaycard allowed a significant amount of funds to be processed and 
withheld.
Barclaycard should have properly assessed the application in the first place.
Barclaycard hasnt provided a justification for the £200 fee.
 
As Mr L didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Termination of agreement
A business is entitled to terminate an agreement with a customer, much in the same way 
that a customer can terminate an agreement with a business. But, when a business 
terminates an agreement it must do so in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. Barclaycard have relied on section 12 of the terms and conditions entitled 
ending this agreement. This section states 
Normally we will give you at least two months notice in writing if we want to end this 
agreement. However, in certain circumstances we may end this agreement by giving you 
immediate written notice.
Barclaycard terminated Hs agreement with immediate effect on the 2 May 2019. Ive 
considered whether they acted fairly in doing so  and I realise this will be disappointing to 
Mr L but Im satisfied Barclaycard acted fairly in doing so. 
Withholding of funds:
After terminating the agreement on the 2 May 2019 Barclaycard explained that they would 
be withholding payment of Hs funds until September 2019. The bank explained that H would 
be liable for chargebacks for a period of 6 months, as per credit card provider chargeback 
procedures, and they were entitled to withhold Hs funds by following the terms and 
conditions of the agreement specifically Section 12. 
Section 12 says:
 we may reduce any amount to be paid to you by any amount that you owe us or one of 
our affiliates if we reasonably believe that you will become liable to us (sic) 
Barclaycard released Hs funds on the 19 September 2019  and Im satisfied in doing so 
they complied with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
£200 fee
Mr L is also unhappy that on terminating the agreement Barclaycard charged H a £200 fee. 
Barclaycard have explained that they charged the fee according to section 9.1 of the terms 
and conditions. These terms and conditions state
 you must pay the full amount of any losses relating to in connection to any claim, defence 
or breaking of this agreement. This includes full investigation, administration and legal costs. 
Ive considered Mr Ls argument but Im afraid I dont agree. Im satisfied that Barclaycard 
have provided sufficient evidence to indicate an investigation occurred and to justify the fee 
applied. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr L but Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted in line with 
their terms and conditions of Hs account when terminating the agreement, withholding the funds and applying the £200 fee. It follows I wont be asking them to do anything further 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision before 19 August 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman