DRN-4473683
The complaint
Ms J complains that Salary Finance Limited didnt take the payments for her loan even 
though she had set up a direct debit following her leaving her employer. She says this 
adversely affected her credit file. She wants the adverse information removed from her credit 
file as well as an apology and compensation for the stress she has been caused.
What happened
Ms J took out a fixed sum loan agreement for £7,000 in August 2018 with payments being 
made through salary deduction. This loan was taken over by Salary Finance Limited. She 
says she contacted her employer as she was leaving their employment and set up a direct 
debit in June 2022. On 10 August 2022, she emailed Salary Finance and then responded to 
the emails Salary Finance sent, but the direct debit wasnt taken from her account and her 
credit file was affected. Ms J says when she was able to make contact with Salary Finance, 
she received conflicting information and didnt receive call backs when promised. She asked 
for details to make a manual payment, but these took a long time to be provided. She says 
she eventually was able to complain and was offered £30 which she didnt accept, and her 
direct debit still wasnt set up.
Salary Finance said that Ms J contacted it to set up a direct debit but that the information 
provided didnt match the details it held so further details were requested. It said the 
information it had recorded with the credit reference agencies was accurate. Salary Finance 
noted that Ms J requested details of how to pay the arrears on her account and these 
werent provided until three weeks later. It apologised for this delay and offered to pay Ms J 
£30 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that Ms J had contacted Salary 
Finance to update her direct debit but that she hadnt provided the information needed for 
this to happen. While there were delays in the responses by Salary Finance, particularly 
regarding the payment details, our investigator noted that Ms J didnt bring her account up to 
date once the details were provided.
Ms J didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that she hadnt received the £30 
gesture of goodwill and that Salary Finance had the details required to take her payments 
but didnt. She explained that when Salary Finance didnt respond to her, she wasnt able to 
make further payments as had she done so and then the direct debit was also taken, she 
wouldnt have had the money to pay her other debts. She said that she shouldnt have been 
put on a payment plan as she could make the payment required, she just couldnt pay all of 
the arrears in one go.
Our investigator contacted Salary Finance which confirmed the £30 hadnt been paid as 
Ms J hadnt initially accepted this but said this should have been paid following our 
investigators view. Because of this it increased the amount to £50 and confirmed this would 
be paid.
Following the issuing of our investigators view, Ms J said that Salary Finance had stopped 
taking her direct debit payments and she had received an annual statement saying that her 
account had been sold. She said she hadnt been told this was happening and is now at risk 
of further damage to her credit file.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as set out below.
I have looked through the information provided to understand the timeline of events. I also 
note Ms Js comment about the additional calls she made.
From what I have seen, Ms J sent an email to Salary Finance dated 9 August 2022, saying 
that she had left her previous employment and that going forward her loan repayments 
would need to be taken from her bank account which she provided details of and said Salary 
Finance would have this listed. There were then email exchanges through August in which 
Salary Finance requested further information and Ms J provided this. Ms J provided copies 
of her bank statements as requested but Salary Finance emailed her on 22 August to say 
that as these didnt show the address on her account, she would need to provide further 
proof of address. I have nothing to show Ms J provided this at that time.
Having looked through the email chains from August 2022, I do not find that Salary Finance 
did anything wrong. It responded to Ms Js initial email promptly and when new information 
was provided it responded to this. While I appreciate that Ms J had to provide additional 
details, as there were discrepancies in the information provided compared to what Salary 
Finance held in its records, I do not find I can say Salary Finance was wrong to request the 
information it did.
Ms J emailed Salary Finance on 29 October 2022 saying that her payment hadnt been 
taken and asking for details of how she could make a payment. As Ms J hadnt responded to 
the request for proof of address from August, I do not find I can say that Salary Finance was 
wrong to not have set up the direct debit at that time. While Ms Js email was acknowledged 
no payment details were provided.
On 10 November Salary Finance emailed Ms J and set out her loan account details and said 
a new bank statement was needed. I can understand why Ms J found this frustrating as she 
had previously provided a bank statement which met the three month requirement and at 
that time Salary Finance had said she needed to provide further proof of address. Whereas 
in this correspondence she was being asked for a new statement due to the time that had 
passed. I find this correspondence would have caused confusion about what had been 
received and what was still required.
That said, I note that Salary Finance was trying to assist Ms J at this time by putting her 
account on hold for 30 days with no interest being charged and providing a link for an 
income and expenditure form to be completed.
Ms J raised a complaint, and this was acknowledged on 15 December 2022, and she was at 
that time also provided with the payment details she had requested and further details of the 
proof of address that was needed. At this point I find it reasonable to accept that Ms J had 
the details needed to make the payments on her account. I note her comments about the 
risk of two payments going out, but I think it would have been reasonable for Ms J to make 
the payments she could, given her concerns about her credit file.
Ms J sent a copy of a bank statement on 8 January 2023, and this was dated December 
2022. Salary Finance then sent her an email dated 10 January 2023 once again saying the 
details didnt match its records and asking for the same information that had been provided 
as part of the August 2022 email chain. I find this would have been frustrating for Ms J and that Salary Finance should have provided better service at this point given the information it 
had previously received and the communication that had been ongoing with Ms J.
In February 2023, following a call with Ms J it was confirmed what information was still 
needed and I can see that following a further call on 2 March it was said that the contractual 
payment would be set up starting 31 March 2023 and that Ms J would make additional 
payments when she could. Interest was frozen until 2 June 2023 which I find shows that 
Salary Finance was trying to assist Ms J.
Overall, I find that Salary Finance could have provided better service to Ms J. While I think 
the initial information requests in August 2022 were reasonable, Salary Finance then didnt 
provide the payment details Ms J requested for several weeks. It also sent her emails 
requiring information that she had already sent and wasnt always clear on what information 
was needed for the payment to be set up. I note that Salary Finance has provided Ms J with 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill but noting the time she spent dealing with this issue and that 
Salary Finance did send requests for information already received, I think it should pay a 
further £50 compensation (bringing the total amount to £100).
I understand that Ms Js main concern is her credit file and I appreciate why this is a 
particular issue for her but as she didnt make the payments as required under her 
agreement and she didnt provide all the information that had been requested to set up the 
direct debits and didnt correct this situation when the payment details were provided to 
make the manual payments, I do not find I can say that Salary Finance was wrong to record 
the information it has.
Since the view was issued, Ms J said that her direct debits have stopped being taken and 
her account has been sold. We contacted Salary Finance about these issues, and it 
explained that Ms Js loan was showing as being repaid in full which was why the payment 
hadnt been taken. In regard to the ownership of the debt it said that it was servicing the loan 
and that the switch in owner occurred when Salary Finance took over the debt from the 
previous provider.
Salary Finance accepted my provisional decision.
Ms J provided a further response. She reiterated that it took several months for Salary 
Finance to give her the payment details and she provided further details about the extremely 
stressful personal circumstances she was experiencing at the time. She explained how she 
had worked to keep her head above water and to deal with the debts she had been left with. 
She said she had been able to maintain her credit score and that other creditors had been 
understanding. Ms J said there were issues with Salary Finance providing her with the form 
to complete and it wasnt until she made her complaint that it was acknowledged how badly 
the situation had been handled. She said that her credit score has always been important to 
her and she made this clear to Salary Finance and that she has done everything she can to 
try to deal with the issues and asked what cost it was to Salary Finance to amend her credit 
file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, I am now able to issue my final 
decision.
I am sorry to hear of the extremely difficult time Ms J has been experiencing and I do not 
underestimate the challenges she has faced. I can see from her testimony that she has 
worked hard to try to clear the debts she was left and resolve the issues on this account. But 
having considered her response to my provisional decision alongside the other evidence 
provided through this investigation, I do not find that I can require Salary Finance to remove 
the adverse information recorded on her credit file. 
While I note the efforts Ms J took to try to the resolve the issues with her loan payments, as 
payments were missed due to Ms J not providing all the information needed for the direct 
debit to be set up and then she didnt make the payments manually when the details were 
provided, I do not find I can required Salary Finance to remove the data recorded at that 
time. I note Ms Js question as to what cost it was to Salary Finance to make the 
amendments but the issue isnt the cost but whether the information recorded is accurate. 
Without evidence to show the information has been recorded incorrectly or that it doesnt 
provide an accurate reflection of her account, I do not find I can require Salary Finance to 
remove the information recorded.
I do find that Salary Finance could have provided better service and I noted details of this in 
my provisional decision. Based on this my recommendation of a further £50 compensation 
hasnt changed.
Putting things right
Salary Finance Limited should, as it has agreed, pay Ms J a further £50 compensation 
(additional to the £50 compensation paid and bringing the total compensation to £100) for 
the issues she has experienced while trying to set up her direct debit.
My final decision
My final decision is that Salary Finance Limited should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman