DRN-2632849
The complaint
Mr O J and Mr D J complain that a finance agreement was misrepresented to them and that 
a car they were financing through that agreement, with Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers), was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O J and Mr D J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O J and Mr D J acquired their car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Close Brothers were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr O J and Mr D J reported this fault within 
the first six months, and I can see the business accepted responsibility for it.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix the 
fault.
It took some time to repair the vehicle but, in August 2020, I can see from Close Brothers 
system notes that they were in contact with Mr O J and that he confirmed the car had been 
returned to him and was working satisfactorily.
Close Brothers accepted that the delay was excessive, and they refunded five finance 
instalments. I think, in the circumstances, that Close Brothers did all that they needed to. 
They repaired the car at no cost to the consumer and they provided a refund of the finance 
Mr O J and Mr D J were paying when they didnt have access to the car.
I dont think it would be fair to ask them to take any further action regarding the quality of the 
car.
was the finance misrepresented?
The relevant legislation explains that the finance company (Close Brothers) are responsible 
for what they say and for what the broker (the dealership here) says when the finance 
agreement is being negotiated.
If I thought Mr O J and Mr D J were told something that was false and if I was persuaded 
that false statement of fact had induced them into entering a finance agreement they would 
not otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to 
them and Id tell Close Brothers to take some further action.
Mr O J says he only wanted to be a guarantor and not a joint hirer on this agreement. I can 
see that he complained shortly after the agreement went live but, on balance, Im not 
persuaded I have been provided with enough evidence that he had been promised he would 
be established as a guarantor. I say that because:
Mr O J signed the finance agreement as a joint hirer. There is no mention of him 
being a guarantor and I think its reasonable to expect him to have read and 
understood the agreement he was signing;
Mr O J has explained that his eye sight is impaired, and he couldnt read the 
agreement. But I think its reasonable to suggest that hed therefore want to take time 
to ensure could;
Ive listened to the calls Mr O J has provided but Ive not found any evidence that he 
was promised to be listed as a guarantor on the agreement. 
The investigator provided her view on this complaint last year and Mr O J has been granted 
several extensions to provide further information to support his claim. Having read the file I 
can see that Mr O J is suggesting the most recent recording we have may not be complete. 
Ive considered whether to ask for further detail on that but have decided that it would not be 
fair to ask Close Brothers to wait any longer. 
Mr O J hasnt provided an explanation about how the additional information will support his 
claim and it seems, after such a prolonged period of trying to provide that information, that 
its unlikely there is any further and pertinent information.
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded that Close Brothers have not done anything wrong 
here and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O J and Mr D J 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman