DRN-3111146
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct didnt provide him with the 
service it should have when he asked for an additional person to be added to his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr D asked for his daughter to be added to his account as an additional card holder. He 
says that First Direct confirmed they had received his application and twice promised the 
additional card would be delivered within a week but this didnt happen. He says there have 
been unacceptable delays in his request being processed even though adding the additional 
card holder was only a risk to him as he would be paying the bills.
First Direct said that it received Mr Ds application to add a card holder to his account on 16 
March 2021. It said there were delays due to an unprecedented volume of applications 
during that time. When processing the application First Direct initially said the name and 
address werent clear on the application and asked for this to be confirmed. This happened, 
and in April 2021, First Direct sent an email and text to Mr Ds daughter requesting certain 
documents. It says a copy of Mr Ds daughters driving licence was provided but this 
contained a different address and it asked her to get in touch. It says she didnt get in touch.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that First Direct had done 
anything wrong by requesting the information from Mr Ds daughter and as there were issues 
with the information provided and further documents werent sent, delays occurred. He said 
that there was an error in the email address used for Mr Ds daughter and so she wouldnt 
have received the emails but noted that texts were also sent. Overall, he thought that First 
Direct took too long at the beginning to review the application but once the application had 
been reviewed it requested information in a reasonable time and the delays were 
unavoidable as it needed to request further information. Because of this he thought the 
apology offered by First Direct was sufficient in this case. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he asked for his daughter to be added 
as an additional card holder and it would be his responsibility to cover her spending on the 
account and this should have been reflected in the process. He said that First Direct didnt 
contact him for information even though he was the customer and that had contact been 
made he could have provided the information about his daughters situation to it. Mr D says 
that First Direct provided incorrect information to him and didnt tell him that it wasnt 
processing the application or the reason for this. He says he should have been kept up to 
date with the application progress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this issue has caused Mr D upset and I understand why he feels he hasnt 
received the service he should have. Based on the information I have seen, Mr D contacted 
First Direct to ask that his daughter be added as an additional card holder on his account on 
26 February. He was sent an application form by post but on 9 March he requested another 
form as the initial one had been lost in the post. The completed form was received by First 
Direct on 16 March.
I understand that Mr D wanted to have his daughter added before the end of the tax year 
however my role is to consider whether Mr D has been treated fairly regarding his 
application and whether First Direct provided him with a reasonable level of service in 
dealing with his request.
When the application was received a note was added to the system saying the name and 
address were unclear. I have looked at the application and can see there are some 
amendments and certain parts may have needed clarification, but I cannot see that Mr D 
was contacted about this at the time. Mr D contacted First Direct on 22 March to ask about 
the progress of his application and was told it was being processed. On 23 March the name 
and address details are shown as having been confirmed. 
Mr D raised a complaint on 29 March as he felt the process was taking too long. I can 
understand his frustration. First Direct explained it had received high volumes of applications 
at that time and while I realise Mr D wanted his daughter added as soon as possible, and I 
agree that this process was taking time, I do no think at this stage the delay was such that 
compensation was required.
Following the initial delay, Mr Ds daughter was contacted on 2 April to provide identification 
documents. These were uploaded on 23 April but there was an issue as the addresses didnt 
match. The delays at this stage were due to First Direct waiting to receive the requested 
information and so while I note Mr Ds comments about not being kept informed, I do not 
think First Direct was doing anything wrong at this point by requesting information from 
Mr Ds daughter. Following the contact on 23 April asking for Mr Ds daughter to make 
contact, First Direct says that further contact wasnt made. 
Overall, I can see that this issue has caused Mr D a lot of frustration. I can see there was an 
initial delay in the application being processed and that Mr D was then told the process 
would take a few days. However, following the conversations at end March, First Direct 
asked for the information required in its usual verification process. Had there not been an 
issue with address details then the delays at this point wouldnt have happened. But as there 
was an issue I cant say First Direct was wrong to ask Mr Ds daughter to get in touch. This 
didnt happen, so I cannot say the delays at this time were due to errors made by First 
Direct.
I can see why Mr D is upset that he wasnt kept informed of the issues but on balance, I do 
not find in this case that the issues raised mean that First Direct is required to pay 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
first direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman