DRN-2454883
The complaint
Mr W has complained that the broker, One Call Insurance Services Limited automatically 
arranged for his home insurance policy to renew against his wishes.
What happened
In 2019 Mr W bought a home insurance policy through a broker, One Call Insurance
Services Limited (One Call).
On 9 March 2020 One Call sent a renewal invite to Mr W as his policy was to end by 2 April
2020. It said if Mr W didnt want to renew his policy, hed need to call it and it provided a
contact number.
On 21 March 2020 Mr W emailed the claims handling company dealing with a claim hed
made under the policy. He asked them what the renewal premium would be. They replied
having checked with the insurer. Mr W emailed the claims handling company to say he didnt
want to renew his policy.
Mr Ws policy automatically renewed on 2 April 2020. As Mr W had previously paid for his
policy in instalments under a credit agreement, the monthly payment continued to be taken
from his account for the renewed policy.
On 2 and 7 April 2020 Mr W emailed the credit provider and the business dealing with his
claim to say he cancelled the auto renewal. He also emailed a do not reply inbox with One
Call to say the same.
As Mr W had cancelled his Direct Debit with the bank, One Call wrote to Mr W and issued a
cancellation notice due to non-payment. On cancellation it said Mr W owed £54.64 for days
he was insured, plus its cancellation and broker fees of £55.99 and £30 respectively. In
addition, Mr W owed for charges under the credit agreement.
Mr W complained to One Call. In May 2020 One Call replied to Mr Ws complaint and said it
had acted correctly. It said it gave Mr W clear instructions if he didnt want his policy to
renew. As Mr W hadnt called, it had correctly cancelled the policy. But as a goodwill
gesture, it waived its fees and so Mr W owed a balance for the days he was insured of
£54.64. This was requested from Mr Ws bank on 30 June 2020.
However, Mr W claimed the amount back through his bank. One Call says it made a counter
claim and received funds on 12 August 2020. So it cancelled the debt it said Mr W owed and
closed the account.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. He wants One Call to provide a full refund and
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Our investigator accepted that Mr W hadnt followed the procedure One Call set out in order
to cancel the renewal of his policy. But he was satisfied that Mr W wouldnt have taken out
the insurance if it hadnt automatically renewed. He said the emails Mr W sent to the
incorrect businesses show this. As Mr W had provided us with proof of buying alternative 
insurance at the renewal date, the investigator thought his complaint should be upheld. 
To put things right, he thought One Call should stop asking Mr W to pay the £54.64 and 
cancel the letters being sent from its debt recovery department.
The investigator sent One Call a copy of the alternative insurance policy Mr W bought.
One Call didnt agree. It said as Mr W didnt call it to cancel the renewal, it couldnt see how
It had been unreasonable in renewing his policy.
Mr W said he wants compensation from One Call for the trouble its caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2020. I thought One Call had correctly followed 
its cancellation process and that Mr W correctly owed the balance premium for the days he 
was insured. So I didnt think Mr W was owed any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by One Call. But I thought that  having provided proof of Mr Ws 
insurance elsewhere to us - One Call should provide a refund of premium for the days Mr W 
was dually insured. 
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Mr W said One Call has written to him 
requesting money from him. We asked One Call about this, as we understood Mr W didnt 
owe One Call anything further. 
One Call confirmed that in September 2020 Mr W has requested a chargeback from his 
account for the payment of £54.64. So Mr W owed this amount for the days he was insured. 
One Call said its for the insurer to decide if it wishes to provide a refund of premium for the 
time Mr W was dually insured. One Call passed the policy documents Mr W sent us for the 
replacement insurance to the insurer of the cancelled policy for them to consider. 
Mr W wants One Call to pay him compensation. He received a form from the insurer of the 
cancelled policy. They asked Mr W to pass the form to his current insurer so that they can 
consider a refund for the dual cover. 
We asked One Call if it would liaise with Mr Ws previous insurer and ask them to contact his 
current insurer directly to get the information they need to resolve the issue of dual 
insurance. If the previous insurer provides a refund for the days Mr W was dually insured, 
this will cover the amount Mr W owes following the chargeback. 
One Call agreed to close the account to show Mr W doesnt owe anything under the 
cancelled policy and said it will liaise with the previous insurer to close the matter. 
I issued a second provisional decision on 20 November 2020. I thought One Call had acted 
reasonably and so I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W provided a copy of an email One Call sent him dated 19 November 2020 to confirm his 
account is closed and no further correspondence will be sent. Mr W says he and his wife 
have had wholly unjustified pressure placed upon them by One Call. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In the renewal invitation sent to Mr W on 9 March 2020, One Call said:
If you do not wish to renew this policy, please call us on 01302 554013 before the 
renewal date. Alternatively you can write to us at the address found at the top of this 
letter.
I think One Call gave Mr W clear information on how to cancel the renewal of his policy  
and in good time before the renewal date. 
I understand Mr W emailed the business handling a claim he made on 21 March 2020 to say 
he didnt want to renew his policy. He also emailed a do not reply address for One Call  in 
April 2020. But this information didnt reach One Call Insurance Services. And so I cant say 
it acted unreasonably in arranging the renewal of Mr Ws policy. 
One Call set out its charges in the renewal documentation it sent. It says on cancellation  if 
its outside the cooling off period  that it will charge a cancellation fee and its fee of £30 is 
non-refundable. 
We dont think its unreasonable for a broker to charge such fees provided its clearly set out 
to the customer before he buys the policy. I think One Call did this here. 
However, in this case One Call waived its fees and Mr W was charged for the days the 
insurer provided cover. This came to £54.64. 
On 2 July 2020 One Call emailed Mr W to say that it would want to see evidence of 
alternative insurance cover in order to consider backdating a refund of premium. I dont think 
this was an unusual or unreasonable approach to take. 
Mr W provided us with proof of alternative home and buildings insurance cover from 2 April 
2020. 
Mr W is upset that I didnt recommend an award of compensation in my first provisional 
decision. He said One Call was pursuing him for an outstanding debt under the policy. And 
hes very unhappy that the insurer sent him a form to forward to his current insurer for details 
of the alternative policy. He said hed already provided the information to us.
We asked One Call about this. One Call said that the balance Mr W had previously paid 
under the cancelled policy was owed again because Mr W made a successful chargeback 
via his bank in September 2020. So until such time as the insurer decided whether to waive 
the premium Mr W paid while dually insured, this amount was outstanding under the 
cancelled policy. 
One Call correctly said its the insurers decision to refund any premium Mr W has paid, and 
so I cant ask One Call as the broker to do this. But One Call agreed to close their account to 
show Mr W doesnt owe anything under the cancelled policy and it will liaise with the 
previous insurer to close the matter. So Mr W doesnt need to send the form his previous 
insurer requested to his current insurer. One Call has confirmed the closure of the account to 
Mr W. 
So I dont think One Call owes Mr W compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I think it was clear as to what it needed in order to cancel the renewal of his policy. 
There isnt anything to show me that Mr W attempted to call or wrote to One Call. 
So I think it was reasonable for One Call to request the balance Mr W owed for the days he 
was insured. And One Call waived its cancellation fee which was correctly due.As Mr W has claimed back the balance he previously owed through his bank, this means Mr 
W is in the position he would have been, had he called One Call to cancel the auto renewal 
of his policy.
My final decision
As One Call has confirmed Mr W doesnt owe anything, taking into account the days when 
he was dually insured, I dont think One Call needs to do anymore. 
So my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman