The complaint
Mrs K complains Ageas Insurance Limited hasn't handled her claim made under her sofa 
warranty fairly. 
Any reference to Ageas includes the claim administrators. 
What happened
Mrs K bought an extended warranty for her sofa.  In November 2018, after sitting on the sofa 
there was a crack, followed by creaking noises. She made a claim under the warranty and 
the sofa was inspected. The first inspection found no fault or issue. But as the creaking 
persisted, further inspections were carried out. 
Inspections took place between November 2018 and May 2019. On a number of occasions 
the technicians couldn't replicate the issue and found nothing wrong. On others, technicians 
carried out minor repairs such as tightening joints and glueing. Finally, a senior technician 
loosened some joints he believed were too tight and might have been causing the issue. But 
he couldn't find anything else wrong with the sofa.  As this didn't resolve the creaking Mrs K 
complained. Ageas didn't uphold the complaint as it said there was no evidence of a 
structural defect which is what the warranty provided cover for. 
Not happy with that, Mrs K asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator didn't uphold 
it as although it was apparent there was a fault, there was insufficient evidence of a 
structural defect.  Mrs K has asked for the matter to be reviewed as she believes there is a 
defect where the rear and side of the sofa join and so the warranty should cover this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure Mrs K and Ageas that I have read and considered everything provided. 
I have reviewed the video footage that Mrs K sent us. And I accept Mrs K does have a 
problem with her sofa. But it doesn't necessarily follow that she has a valid claim under the 
warranty. That depends on the terms and conditions and the cover it provides. 
Mrs K's certificate of insurance shows she has cover for staining and structural defects. So 
what I must consider is whether the creaking noise being experienced when the sofa is sat 
on amounts to a structural defect. Structural defect is defined within the policy as:
Faults found outside of the manufacturers guarantee period that have occurred due to 
faulty or defective components. 
DRN-1095945And under 4. WHAT IS COVERED:
iv) STRUCTURAL DEFECTS
Structural defects limited to:
Breakage or separation of frame components,
Breaking or bending of metal mechanisms or other metal components,
Defective mechanical and electrical recliner mechanisms,
Cushion interiors,
Broken zips,
Peeling of leather and peeling/lifting of veneer,
Warping,
Fascias,
Broken castors,
Unstitching of buttons or failure of any stitching.
The warranty only provides cover for the above structural defects. So if the problem with    
Mrs K's sofa isn't in relation to any of the defects listed in the warranty there is no cover. On 
each occasion Mrs K submitted a claim Ageas arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. 
On a couple of occasions that resulted in minor repairs, such as tightening and loosening 
joints and even arranging for cloth to cover the sofa springs. The final inspection and repair 
was carried out by a senior technician who carried out the aforementioned loosening of 
some joints. However, he noted that if his repair didn't rectify the creaking then no other 
causes could be identified. 
Whilst I accept there might have been some separation of the frame components (given that 
some screwing, glueing and joint tightening had taken place) I understand from the final 
inspection that all repairs were intact. The senior technician was unable to find any evidence 
of a structural defect. The technicians are the experts in this matter and I don't find it unfair 
for Ageas to rely on their findings and reports. Mrs K hasn't provided any comparable report 
or persuasive evidence to show the technicians' reports are wrong or that there is a 
structural defect as per the warranty's conditions. 
I accept Mrs K clearly has a problem with her sofa. But in the absence of any persuasive 
evidence her sofa is suffering with a structural defect as per the warranty conditions, I find no 
basis on which to uphold this complaint against Ageas. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman