DRN-4189053
The complaint
Miss K has complained about the service she received from Vitality Health Limited when 
making a claim under her medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and not in dispute. In summary 
Miss K is unhappy that she was billed for a shortfall in cover following a claim she made for 
outpatient diagnostic tests. 
Our investigator didnt think Miss K had been fully advised by Vitality about the likelihood of 
the costs of the diagnostic tests exceeding her outpatient benefit limit. She recommended 
that the complaint be upheld and Vitality compensate Miss K in the sum of £1000.
Vitality didnt agree. It said that it had reminded Miss K about her outpatient limit. It also felt 
that as this wasnt Miss Ks first claim she would have been fully aware that she needed to 
be mindful of her limit and keep track of it.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Miss Ks policy terms and conditions are clear as to what her outpatient limit was. 
Vitality wrote to Miss K approving her treatment up to diagnosis on 16 June 2022. 
That letter included the following: Cover limits - Some of your cover has a limit 
Please note any amount listed in 'limit remaining' is based on bills we've received 
and processed so far and may be subject to change if there are any bills outstanding. 
If you would like more information about what is included in these limits, please call 
us. Miss K did call, one more than one occasion. Although it is not in dispute that 
Miss K was reminded about her outpatient limit  her questions were more specific 
than this. I find that this is where Vitality should have done more to correctly advise 
Miss K.
It is apparent from the call of 5 August 2022 that Miss K was concerned about costs 
and not going over her outpatient limit. The adviser didnt warn Miss K that they 
werent aware what the costs of her tests were and that she should check with the 
provider. I think that it would have been prudent for the adviser to tell Miss K this. 
Miss K specifically asked for confirmation that all the tests were covered, so that all 
shed have to pay was the excess. She also said that she had wanted to make sure 
that all her tests were covered so that she wasnt left with any surprises. 
I havent disregarded the fact that at the end of the call on 5 August Miss K was told 
that everything discussed was available through her Care Hub, which she could 
access through the Member Zone. Nevertheless its clear from the call that Miss K 
gained the impression that all her tests would be covered. I dont find that was an 
unreasonable assumption given the responses from the adviser, who said that 25 
blood tests would be covered. As I said, I think they should have taken the 
opportunity to advise that cover would only be up to the policy limit and they couldnt 
say what the charges were  this she would need to check with the consultant.
Miss K has said that had she been so advised, she wouldnt have had all the tests 
she did have. She knew what her policy limit was  but wanted clarification that all 
the tests were covered within that. I find that is reasonable and Im satisfied that her 
position was prejudiced following the telephone conversation with Vitality on 5 
August. There was another call on 3 August  Miss K says that in that call she made 
a similar request and said she wouldnt proceed if she was taken over her limit. 
However, whilst I dont doubt Miss Ks recollection, as that recording hasnt been 
produced I cant be sure how the conversation went.
Vitality has said that Miss K was aware of how her outpatient benefit worked having 
made previous claims. But here Miss K was specifically calling to check whether she 
would be covered for the tests required in this claim. Im satisfied for the reason given 
above that in the circumstances of this claim Miss K was led to understand that the 
tests required would fall within her limit. 
That said, like our investigator I dont find that Vitality is liable for the entire shortfall 
Miss K faces  because Im satisfied that she would have incurred some of the costs 
anyway  these included the two consultations and an EEG. But Miss K was led to 
understand she was covered for all the blood tests and she just needed to pay her 
excess. This was incorrect. I find it would be fair and reasonable for Vitality to make a 
contribution to the blood tests that Miss K had on the understanding that they were all 
covered. I find £1000 is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Miss K 
£1000. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman