DRN-2037242
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled a 
claim on their home insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Admiral also includes its agents.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs Ds home was damaged following works carried out by a water utilities 
company. Mr and Mrs D initially dealt directly with the water company but were unhappy with 
the offer made for the cost of repairs. So in March 2018, Mr and Mrs D contacted Admiral to 
make a claim under their home insurance policy. Admiral appointed a loss adjuster and 
following an initial report, a settlement offer was made in May 2018. Mr and Mrs D thought 
this was too low and didnt cover all of the repairs needed. They paid for their own structural 
engineer to look at the damage. Admiral agreed to reconsider the settlement offer if new 
evidence was provided to show the increased cost.
In December 2018, after struggling for some time to find a contractor who was prepared to 
do the work, Mr and Mrs D contacted Admiral again for help with the claim. The same loss 
adjuster firm was appointed to their case. Mr and Mrs D said the loss adjuster blocked their 
contractor from doing any work. They said they moved out of their home to temporary 
accommodation in July 2019 to allow for the works to begin but these werent approved 
because of Admirals loss adjusters failure to agree to some further investigations needed to 
check the stability of their home.
Unhappy with the delays and the overall handling of the claim by the loss adjuster, Mr and 
Mrs D complained to Admiral. Admiral agreed that there had been approximately seven 
months of delays and that it should have done more. But it said some structural monitoring 
was needed which had impacted on that timeframe. And it said it was satisfied with the 
handing of the case by the loss adjuster. Admiral did say it hadnt kept Mr and Mrs D 
updated when it should have, including call backs not being made within a reasonable 
timeframe. As a result of this, Admiral made an offer of £500 in recognition of all these 
issues.
Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied with this outcome and brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt require Admiral to do anything 
further. She found that there had been periods of time where Admiral could have been more 
proactive in contacting Mr and Mrs D about their claim in order to help to progress matters. 
But she felt that Admirals offer of £500 was reasonable.
 
And, in relation to the lack of progression of the works during the time Mr and Mrs D had 
been in temporary accommodation, the investigator said that evidence hadnt been provided 
to show the need for the more intrusive investigations - so she couldnt ask Admiral to pay 
for those. Admiral had appointed an independent surveyor to try to resolve things and our 
investigator thought this was reasonable in order to find a way forward that was acceptable 
to all parties involved.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the 
heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs D. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, its remit and my role in it.
Im aware that, since this complaint was initially made, matters have progressed and 
Mr and Mrs D are also unhappy with what has since happened. But I can only decide on the 
complaint that was brought to our service following the final response from Admiral in 
October 2019. If Mr and Mrs D would like this service to consider any further issues, they 
can make a separate complaint.
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the amount of time it has taken to deal with their claim. They 
have blamed Admirals loss adjuster for not progressing the complaint. It does appear to me 
that there has been a lot of time during which there was no significant progression of the 
claim. From May 2018 until December 2018 I can see that Mr and Mrs D were trying to get 
contractors to provide estimates and this was causing them some issues. However, I cant 
see that Admiral was particularly proactive during this period. 
Admiral has accepted that there have been delays in the handling of the claim and that it 
didnt keep Mr and Mrs D as informed as it should have. But, in relation to the loss adjusters 
handling of the case, it has said that structural monitoring of the property was needed, which 
does take time, and so it was satisfied that the loss adjuster had acted appropriately during 
this period. Im aware Mr and Mrs D dispute that any monitoring had taken place, however, I 
can see that there was a request made by Mr and Mrs Ds contractors for an additional five 
meetings with the surveyor, a further survey and costs for creating hatches for inspections 
under the floorboards. It would seem to me that additional surveyor meetings and inspection 
hatches would likely be to check for structural issues.
Mr and Mrs D have also said they are unhappy with the way Admiral has been dealing with 
their claim after they went into temporary accommodation. They say that their contractor and 
surveyor said it was necessary to conduct additional, more intrusive, investigations into the 
foundations of their home due to the concerns about subsidence, but that Admiral has 
refused to consider these costs.  From the claim notes I can see the request for these further 
investigations was made following the initial inspections by Mr and Mrs Ds contractor. 
Admiral said that it hadnt received any evidence to show these additional investigations 
were needed. As a result, Admiral appointed a structural engineer to visit the property along 
with an engineer specialising in subsidence so that a decision could be reached on the next 
steps.
Ive thought about this very carefully and I can understand the frustrations of Mr and Mrs D 
over what appears to be slow progress. However, if the evidence to support the need for the 
additional works wasnt provided to Admiral, I cant say it is unreasonable for it to seek 
further opinion on this matter. Admiral has said these two independent engineers were 
brought in to try to obtain clarification for the necessity of the works being requested by the 
contractor. It would appear to me that, by doing so, Admiral were actively trying to bring the 
matter to a resolution. Im satisfied that Admirals actions here were reasonable.With any insurance claim there is an element of inconvenience and, unfortunately with 
claims that relate to possible damage to the structure and potential movement, the time 
taken to deal with the matter can be quite lengthy. But it is clear that Admiral hasnt always 
actively sought to keep the claim moving. It has offered £500 to Mr and Mrs D as 
compensation for its delays in progressing the claim. Taking into account what Ive 
mentioned above, I agree with our investigator that this is a fair offer. I dont require Admiral 
to do anything more.
My final decision
Whilst I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, for the reasons stated above, I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman