DRN-1745921
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a
packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr T paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in return.
He thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
Mr T has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. I understand that he 
opened one if its fee-free accounts in 2002 and that Bank of Scotland didnt sell him the 
URCA until 2009. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt think that Bank
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review him case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr Ts case. Ive looked
into everything that Mr T and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2009, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever situation 
applied to Mr T, as well as giving him a choice, I would have expected Bank of Scotland to 
tell him about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check if he needed the benefits which the account could 
provide before making any recommendation. 
On our questionnaire, Mr T told us that Bank of Scotland sold him the URCA during a 
meeting at one of its branches and advised him to buy it. Bank of Scotland has said that it 
can no longer tell if it sold the account by telephone, through one its branches or in some 
other way; but it has said that in 2009, its policy was never to advise customers about 
URCAs. I accept this was its usual practice, but Mr T has been very clear in his comments to 
us about this, and Im satisfied that he certainly believed that Bank of Scotland was 
recommending he should change accounts. So, I have considered his case to have been an 
advised sale which Bank of Scotland made during a meeting at one its branches. 
There is no dispute that while Mr T had his fee-free account, he overdrew his balance from 
time-to-time. Hes told us that in 2009 Bank of Scotland called him to go into a branch to 
discuss his current account, and that during the meeting it said that to maintain the overdraft 
he must switch to the URCA. Hes said that Bank of Scotland gave him no other options. 
This would have been incorrect and misleading, as Bank of Scotland has continued to 
provide overdrafts to customers with fee-free accounts. Bank of Scotland has denied saying 
it. 
There are no detailed records from the time of the meeting, which isnt surprising as it took 
place around ten years ago, so I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland said, or didnt say, 
to Mr T. But I find it unlikely that Bank of Scotland told Mr T he had to buy the URCA to keep 
an overdraft. This would have gone against its established and common practice, and 
contradicted Mr Ts previous personal experience. 
However, at that time, one of the potential benefits of the URCA was that depending on how 
a customer used an account, Bank of Scotland often raised lower charges for an overdraft 
than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. I think its highly likely that Bank of 
Scotland told Mr T about this and may well have also said that he couldnt have these lower 
charges with his fee-free account. As this was true, it wouldnt have been misleading and 
would have been a fair thing for Bank of Scotland to say.
The other benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, free use of a car breakdown 
service and mobile phone insurance. I understand that Mr T travelled from time-to-time, 
drove a car and used a mobile phone. I gather that in the years he held the URCA he 
registered several mobile phones for the insurance, and also made a couple of claims. 
Mr T has told us that he had alternative arrangements for a car breakdown service, and I 
accept this. But the URCA came as a package which couldnt be adjusted for individual 
circumstances and Mr Ts alternative arrangements for a car breakdown service didnt mean 
the account was wrong for him. Given the full circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to recommend the URCA to Mr T.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Bank of Scotland told Mr T that he would have to 
pay for the URCA, and I think its highly likely that it also told him about the benefits. After all, 
it was trying to sell the account to him, and it was in its own interest to let him know what he 
could get in return for his fees. 
Despite Mr Ts comment that Bank of Scotland gave him no alternatives to the URCA, I think 
it probably did give him a choice to keep his fee-free account (albeit without the possible 
savings in overdraft charges) as it continued to provide such accounts to customers who 
wanted them; and they have been widely available in the UK throughout the time in question. 
So, in summary, although I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have done everything right 
in the way it sold the URCA to Mr T, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to recommend the 
account to him, that it told him about the benefits and the fees he would have to pay and that 
it gave him a choice. I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Bank of
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020. Steve Townsley
Ombudsman