DRN-1734216
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has lost the contents of her 
safe deposit box.
What happened
Mrs T says she had two safe deposit boxes that were kept at a NatWest branch from 1994 
(box 1) and 1996 (box 2). She says she went to a NatWest branch in February 2019 in order 
to collect one of the boxes and whilst there was told there was a second box that didn't have 
a barcode but was next to hers. The second box wasn't given to Mrs T at the time, but she 
later attended with a key that didn't fit but was given the box. Mrs T says she forced open the 
box and found it empty. She says it should have contained jewellery valued at over £7,000 
that was sentimental and irreplaceable and was last viewed in about 2002 or 2003. Mrs T 
says NatWest has lost the contents.
NatWest says Mrs T was shown the second box when she attended its branch and told it 
she only had one box and the second box wasn't hers. It says it only has records of one box 
and that Mrs T has only paid for one box. NatWest says the second box was shown to Mrs T 
as it was stored next to her box. It doesn't accept making a mistake and says its staff have 
no access to the contents of safe deposit boxes.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the information was limited due to the passage of time. The investigator didn't think 
there was any evidence that there were still two boxes deposited at NatWest, and thought 
the last time the second box had been viewed was nearly 20 years ago. The investigator 
also thought Mrs T had been charged one fee which suggested there was one box and 
overall didn't think NatWest had made a mistake.
Mrs T doesn't accept that view and says she has provided numbers of two boxes and 
doesn't accept there has been a significant passage of time. She says there should be 
records of what took place and how many boxes were transferred to a different branch. Mrs 
T accepts saying the second box wasn't hers but says she panicked as she was worried 
about removing items from the other box of high value and travelling with those items
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mrs T will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what's 
happened. I also make it clear that I have not looked at the compensation that Mrs T has 
been paid or the reasons for that payment as it's clear that is not the main part of the 
complaint or the reasons why this complaint was brought to us. If I had been asked about 
that compensation then I think it was fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.I also make clear to the parties that I appreciate both sides have provided a significant 
amount of information about this complaint and I have summarised it, which does not mean I 
have not considered all of that evidence.
I'm satisfied that the events complained about here go back over 25 years. So I accept in 
those circumstances there is unlikely to be full records of the opening of the safe deposit 
boxes and their movement to a different branch. So I have to decide on balance what I think 
is likely to have happened here. 
I'm satisfied that Mrs T attended the NatWest branch in respect of one safe deposit box as 
she has told us that. And that she told NatWest she only had one safe deposit box and not 
two. I appreciate Mrs T says she panicked when asked that question by NatWest, but I think 
she ought to have known if she had one or two boxes. And whilst I appreciate Mrs T says 
she was worried about leaving the branch with high value items, I don't think that response 
suggests she was aware she had two boxes.
I think that second box was given to Mrs T as it was next to her actual box and didn't contain 
any details on it that suggested it was hers. There is no dispute here that Mrs T attended the 
branch with a key on a later occasion but that key didn't fit. So I think this provides further 
evidence that this second box was not Mrs T's. If it was Mrs T's box, then I would have 
expected that key to have fitted, and Mrs T has told us the box was opened by force.
I have looked at NatWest's records and can see that for many years Mrs T  paid one safe 
deposit fee. I think it likely that if she held two safety deposit boxes then she would have 
been charged two fees.
So having considered those points, I think overall that Mrs T had only one safe deposit box 
and the second box wasn't Mrs T's. It follows that I can't fairly hold NatWest responsible for 
the items Mrs T says it has lost in those circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs T will have unanswered questions about this complaint and says 
NatWest ought to have records of all of her dealings with it. I am sorry to disappoint Mrs T 
but I don't think it reasonable to expect NatWest to have records going back over 25 years 
and I'm satisfied that it has tried to assist Mrs T. I accept it should have considered if Mrs T 
was even entitled to be given the second box without evidence of ownership. And whilst I 
appreciate Mrs T has given details of a second safe deposit box number and must have had 
a key in her possession, I'm not satisfied on balance that provides evidence the box still 
exists.
Overall I don't think NatWest has made a mistake or acted unfairly. I can see that Mrs T has 
made a complaint to the police and I think this brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out 
this dispute informally, can do to help Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman