DRN-3155510
The complaint
Miss S complains about the decision by Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) 
to turn down her income protection claim, and void her policy due to misrepresentation.
What happened
On 16 January 2016, Miss S took out the income protection policy. The aim of the policy was 
to provide an income in the event that Miss S couldnt work because of illness or injury. She 
also took out waiver of premium cover.
In 2020, Miss S made a claim under the policy after stopping work because she needed 
surgery. 
During LVs assessment of the claim, it thought that Miss S had failed to disclose relevant 
information about her health when taking out the policy. LV said that if it had known that 
information, it wouldnt have offered Miss S cover. It therefore voided her policy from the 
start and turned down her claim. LV thought Miss Ss misrepresentation had been deliberate 
or reckless, and so it didnt return the premiums shed paid. Unhappy with this, Miss S 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought that Miss S had 
failed to take reasonable care when answering the medical questions on the application, and 
so agreed with LV that thered been misrepresentation. However, our investigator thought 
the misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless, and so she 
recommended LV refund the premiums Miss S had paid for the policy, plus interest. 
LV didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
Ive listed below questions that LV thinks Miss S failed to answer correctly. Ill consider each 
of these in turn.
1)
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor or required treatment)
-any joint, bone or muscle pain, fracture, gout or arthritis?
Im satisfied this question was clear. Miss S answered no to this question. 
However, in March 2015, Miss S told her GP about elbow pain shed been experiencing over 
the previous two months after banging her arm. Whilst I appreciate Miss S only saw her GP 
once about this issue, given that shed experienced pain over a two month period and this 
was within a year of taking out the policy, I think its reasonable to have expected Miss S to 
disclose this. 
Miss S also went to see her GP on several occasions about her ongoing hip pain in the two 
years before taking out the policy. She had an x-ray, was referred to a physiotherapist, and 
had also received a steroid injection for this. I agree with LV that Miss S ought to have 
disclosed this information.
Consequently, I think Miss S failed to take reasonable care when answering this question.
2)
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor or required treatment)

-any back or neck condition, including pain, sciatica or whiplash?
Im satisfied this question was clear. Miss S answered no to this question. 
In November 2014, Miss S saw her GP with lower back pain that shed experienced for three 
days, and was prescribed pain relief. She also attended A&E the same month. Although she 
didnt experience back pain over a long period, given that her pain was serious enough for 
her to attend hospital, I think its reasonable to have expected her to disclose this. 
I think Miss S failed to take reasonable care when answering this question.
3)
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor or required treatment)

-mental health issue including depression, anxiety, stress, nervous breakdown, 
insomnia or eating disorders?
Im satisfied this question was clear. Miss S answered yes to this question. 
Miss S explained that shed had depression/anxiety and had seen her GP, practice nurse or 
counsellor. She said it was due to a grief or bereavement reaction and shed taken 
medication for this. Miss S confirmed that her symptoms had resolved, and she had last had 
symptoms or treatment three years previously.
Miss Ss medical records say that in April and May 2014, Miss S saw her GP about her 
depression. Her GP encouraged her to take the antidepressant medication shed been 
prescribed and engage with psychology.
Whilst I appreciate Miss S got the timing wrong with regards to her last symptoms (she said 
they had been three years earlier rather than just under two years earlier), she did disclose her condition and so I dont think its reasonable to say that she didnt take reasonable care 
when answering this question. I dont find there was misrepresentation here.
4)
In the last 5 years have you had any of the following: (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor or required treatment)

-kidney, bladder or urinary condition including blood or protein in the urine and urinary 
tract infection?
Im satisfied this question was clear. Miss S answered no to this question. 
However, Miss S experienced urinary problems throughout 2013, 2014 and 2015. She was 
investigated for this, and also noted to have hydronephrosis.
I think Miss S failed to take reasonable care when answering this question.
Conclusions
I think it was reasonable for LV to conclude that Miss S failed to take reasonable care when 
answering some of the medical questions, and therefore there was misrepresentation. 
LV has explained that given the number of exclusions that it wouldve needed to apply to the 
policy had it known about Miss Ss elbow pain, hip pain, back pain and mental health 
(though it already knew about her mental health condition), the application wouldve been 
referred to its underwriters. LV arranged for its underwriters to give a backdated decision, 
and it was confirmed that Miss S wouldnt have been offered the policy or the waiver of 
premium cover.
Im therefore satisfied that LV has shown there was qualifying misrepresentation and it was 
entitled to void the policy from the start and turn down the claim.
The remaining issue is how to categorise the misrepresentation. LV thought this was 
deliberate or reckless. 
As our investigator has explained, for the misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, the 
onus falls to LV to show that Miss S:
a) Knew that the information was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it 
was untrue or misleading, and
b) Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. 
LV says that due to the volume and severity of Miss Ss symptoms, it thinks she mustve 
known that her answers were incorrect, or acted without any care as to whether or not they 
were correct.
I accept that Miss S had a lot of investigations for her ongoing hip pain in the five years 
before taking out the policy. However, her elbow pain was only one occurrence, her back 
pain only took place in one month, and her depression was mentioned by her GP over a two-
month period. So I dont agree that Miss Ss symptoms were of such volume and severity 
that her misrepresentation must be considered deliberate or reckless. Miss S explains that she didnt intend to conceal any medical information, but she found it 
difficult to remember all of her medical history in the previous five years, particularly when 
some GP visits didnt require long-term treatment. She says she thought her answers would 
be verified by her GP before the policy started, and that LV or her broker would do this.
I think Miss S has provided a plausible explanation for the misrepresentation. Also, given 
that she told LV about her depression (and also disclosed another medical condition), I think 
this further supports that she wasnt deliberately trying to misrepresent information about her 
health, or didnt care about this. 
Consequently, I think it wasnt fair for LV to conclude that Miss Ss misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, and instead I think it was careless. I therefore require LV to return the 
premiums Miss S has paid, plus interest.
final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Liverpool Victoria Financial 
Services Limited to return the premiums Miss S paid for the policy. Interest should be added 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date LV voided to the policy to the date of 
settlement.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman