DRN-3569655
The complaint
Mr W has complained that between 18 to 29 January 2021 he was denied access to his 
trading account he held with Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212). He was unable to close 
his positions in GameStop (GME) and Koss (KOSS), unable to access his account or was 
restricted in the number shares he could trade. As a result, he says he lost a significant 
amount of money. 
What happened
During the above dates Mr W says he attempted daily access to his account at different 
times throughout the day to respond to the influx and market trend. On many occasions he 
wasnt given the opportunity to trade and so wasnt able to be responsible for his own trading 
decisions. 
Trading 212 said it had period of downtime on 27 January 2021 for some of its uses and this 
had meant that Mr W hadnt been able to access his account compared to other users which 
he said wasnt fair. Mr W says Trading 212 failed to provide the service it should have done 
and there wasnt any contingency plan in place or communications with its customers. There 
was no reasonable care or skill provided by Trading 212. He complained to Trading 212.
In response, Trading 212 said;
On 27 January 2021 there was a downtime in its platform for some users that had 
been caused by unprecedented demand for its services as a result of unprecedented 
external factors including various social media platforms acting together to artificially 
increase the share prices of certain stocks, including GME, and which was beyond 
Trading 212s control. 
It hadnt breached any regulatory or contractual obligations, wasnt liable for 
disruption to its service or any losses Mr W may have suffered because of the 
disruption. It referred to its terms and conditions. In particular it referred to clauses 
6.4 of its share dealing terms of business regarding the waiving of any claims during 
a downtime and clause 25 of its terms and conditions regarding events beyond its 
control and not being liable for any disruptions in the provision of its services 
because of that. Its risk notice also included a reminder that computer-based 
systems were vulnerable to disruption, delay, or failure and which may cause loss of 
access to an account, but its liability was limited in relation to these disruptions. 
On 28 January 2021 it stopped clients buying certain investments that were 
experiencing irregular volatility. This was prompted by circumstances outside of its 
control and its own access being restricted by its execution intermediary. 
It was justified in restricting trading in GME and similar stocks as its own execution 
intermediary had restricted liquidity in those investments. Again, outside of its control. 
And it was contractually permitted to do so. It referred to clause 5.12 of its share 
dealing terms. 
The UK regulator had issued a statement and Trading 212 had taken prudent action 
in line with that statement. It had prevented harm to its clients and markets. 
Mr W wasnt due any compensation as the circumstances were outside of       
Trading 212s reasonable control and in accordance with regulatory obligations and 
its own terms and conditions. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
She couldnt see that Mr W hadnt been able to access his account or trade on 
multiple occasions and which resulted in a financial loss. 
Trading 212s platform was offline between 2.36pm and 3.45pm GMT on                 
27 January 2021 due to significant and unprecedented issues but Trading 212 didnt 
mention any other disruptions. Because of the lack of evidence  while not doubting 
Mr Ws testimony  the investigator thought it was likely there were some occasions 
he couldnt access the platform but only for seconds and/or minutes and not longer 
term. 
If there had been more significant downtimes or delays, the investigator thought it 
would have been experienced by other users and have been recorded by Trading 
212. There was also reference on file that this wasnt unusual for there to be 
problems accessing accounts when the US market opened at 2.30pm GMT.
The trades Mr W had placed between 18 and 29 January 2021 had all been actioned 
within a reasonable timeframe. And regarding the known downtime on 27 January  
Mr W had placed trades before and after which were executed and could possibly 
have traded more favourably. But Mr Ws inability to trade was outside of          
Trading 212s control and it wasnt fair to suggest he should be compensated. 
During late January 2021 the market was highly volatile and an there was an 
unprecedented demand for trading  particularly in certain stocks  so the 
investigator couldnt agree that it was due to Trading 212s actions that Mr W may not 
have been able to trade as and when he had wanted to.  
In his response, Mr W wanted evidence of Trading 212s functionality during the period but 
the investigator hadnt asked for this but did ask Mr W if he had any evidence of not being 
able to access Trading 212s platform at the times he had complained about. Mr W had 
changed his devices and no longer had access to that evidence. He didnt have anything 
further than he had already provided.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for broadly the same reasons. 
Based on the evidence Im unable to agree with Mr W that overall, he didnt have access to 
his account. And Im satisfied that Trading 212 behaved fairly and in accordance with its own 
terms and conditions. 
Im satisfied that these were unprecedented times and during which the regulator issued a 
statement noting that firms were exposed to greater risk during such abnormal market 
conditions and werent obliged to offer trading facilities if it thought it necessary or prudent to 
do so and in line with its terms. And I say this rather than concluding that Trading 212 either took a course of action that was more convenient for it or acted to its own advantage rather 
than acting in the best interests of its clients. Ill explain why.
I think there are two main issues here. One is whether Mr W was denied access to his 
account during the period he has referred to. And secondly, is Trading 212 responsible for 
any losses Mr W thinks he may have incurred during those times he was unable to access 
his account and trade in the stocks he wanted to. 
As a background to the events, during January 2021, and 27/28 January in particular, the 
stock market was extremely volatile and particularly in certain stocks including GME and 
KOSS. NYSE halted trading in GME and KOSS over 20 times on 28 January 2021 alone as 
an example, on the limit up limit down basis in order to prevent share price volatility from 
reaching extreme levels. There had been considerable and unprecedented interest 
generated in the shares caused by social media platforms and, as I understand it, as share 
prices increased, short sellers having to close their positions in order to prevent bigger 
losses  a so-called short squeeze. Overall, Im satisfied that the market conditions 
themselves were outside of Trading 212s control. 
Mr W has said he couldnt access his account between 18 and 29 January 2021 and wasnt 
able to make his own investment decisions as a result. 
Trading 212 confirmed that Mr W opened his account on 13 January 2021. The investigator 
asked for logs of activity on the account for the month of January 2021. Trading 212 has 
given us a history of Mr Ws trades from 18 to 29 January which is the period Mr W is 
complaining about and which shows that Mr W was regularly able to trade, and on a daily 
basis, during that period.  
Trading 212 has confirmed that during the acknowledged downtime on 27 January 2021 
(2.36pm  3.45pm) this didnt impact on trades already placed. Those orders already placed 
were executed. And in particular Trading 212 has given us a screenshot from Mr Ws 
account on 27 January that it says represents a portion of orders that were filled. I note that 
two orders were placed prior to the downtime at 2.23pm and 2.21pm UK time and which 
were both executed at 2.30pm. There is also a trade to buy AMC submitted at 3.46pm  one 
minute after the downtime was resolved  and which was executed at 3.47pm. And I note 
AMC was another of the shares particularly impacted by volatility at the time because of 
social media groups acting together to artificially raise the share price.
Trading 212 has told us it experienced unprecedented activity on its platform  caused by 
the volatility in certain instruments in particular that I have already mentioned as well as a 
large number of people registering only so they could trade in those particular instruments  
which in turn caused disruption to its service on 27 January in particular and the subsequent 
server downtime. 
So, on the balance of probabilities, I think it more likely than not that during the period of    
18 to 29 January Mr W was reasonably and regularly able to access his account, as 
evidenced by the orders filled. Overall, I havent seen anything that would make me think the 
platform wasnt fit for purpose, particularly during some of the most unusual and volatile 
market conditions. 
And I accept what Trading 212 has said about unexpected trading activity and a large 
number of people registering with Trading 212 only so they could trade in the mentioned 
volatile instruments. Trading 212 told us it had received over 20,000 enquires over the   
28/29 January alone so I dont think such interest was foreseeable and I accept that it was 
due to this unprecedented load of activity on its platform that caused the servers to disrupt, 
hence the downtime.  l think it more likely that Mr W was able to access his account, albeit experiencing some 
short delays at the time. And I note that one of the Trading 212 customer forum group 
screenshots Mr W has given us does refer to lack of access coinciding with the US market 
open at 2.30pm GMT (09.30am local time) which may have caused some disruption 
particularly bearing in mind the volatility of the markets during this time. 
Ive also reviewed trading 212s share dealing service  terms of business to consider how 
Trading 212 can act in such circumstances and when matters are outside of its control. 
Below are what I consider to be relevant to this complaint, but not limited to;
Clause 5.12. We shall have the right to introduce new Financial instruments and 
Market Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/ or remove from 
the Trading Platform any Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sole 
discretion.
Clause 6.4. You hereby agree and acknowledge that in the event of downtime of the 
Trading Platform You shall waive any claims against Trading 212 of missed profits 
and/or claims that You would have executed an order on a specific price during the 
downtime. You acknowledge that sometimes there may be technical issues or faults 
with the Trading Platform.
Clause 25.1. Whilst we endeavour to comply with our obligations in a timely manner, 
we shall incur no liability whatsoever for any partial or full default of our obligations by 
reason of any cause or event beyond our reasonable control, including but not limited 
to any communications, systems or computer failure, market default, suspension, 
failure or closure, or the imposition or change (including a change of interpretation) of 
any law or governmental or regulatory requirement and we shall not be held liable for 
any loss you may incur as a result. In addition to and notwithstanding any of the 
above the Force Majeure definition shall include, but shall be not limited to any 
superior force, any event that encompasses acts of god (such as earthquakes or 
tsunamis, etc.), certain acts of man of a disruptive and unforeseeable nature, 
industrial action, epidemics, pandemics, actions by government agencies, or work 
stoppages, any material change in economic conditions or any other event, that is 
beyond the reasonable control and was and whose effects could not be avoided by 
reasonable measure.
Clause 25.2. Force Majeure shall include any of the following: the suspension or 
failure of any financial instrument, whether underlying or not, the suspension or 
closure of any markets, exchanges, the nationalisation and/or government 
sequestration, the failure of any of our suppliers, and if applicable our intermediate 
broker, agent or principal, dealer or any custodian, sub-custodian, clearing house or 
regulatory or self-regulatory organisation, for any reason, to perform its obligations. 
Whereas in any such event we will try to take reasonable steps to mitigate the effect 
of the said event in order to continue our operations and to continue to provide you 
with services and where we may therefore alter some of the (trading) terms and 
conditions as per this agreement.
Trading 212 referred to clause 6.4 regarding the possibility of downtimes and that Mr W had 
waived any claims against Trading 212 in the event of that. And that sometimes there were 
technical issues or faults with the trading platform. I note that Mr W did ask about Trading 
212s functionality and there being a lack of contingency plans. 
I accept Mr Ws point here  and which I understand to mean he is effectively trying to 
establish whether the platform was fit for purpose. And in the particular and individual 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint in that he says he regularly wasnt able to access his 
account over a period of time. Inevitability technology isnt infallible, and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect any service 
reliant upon technology to be available 100% of the time. But if Trading 212s platform wasnt 
fit for purpose then it might not be fair and reasonable for Trading 212 to rely on clause 6.4 
in Mr Ws case. But for the reasons I have outlined above, I dont have any reason to 
conclude that Trading 212s platform wasnt fit for purpose bearing in mind the impact on 
Trading 212s own capacity to provide service, the influx of new customers and the stock 
market volatility overall.
And having reviewed those terms, I dont find that the actions taken by Trading 212 or 
problems and delays Mr W experienced were outside of those terms and conditions. And   
Mr W agreed to those terms at the outset of his relationship with Trading 212. 
Even if I was to find that Trading 212 was unfair in terms of Mr W not being able to log on to 
his account, Ive gone on to consider  given the market circumstances  whether he could 
have traded as and when he wished. 
Mr W has said he wasnt able to close his positions in GME and KOSS or was restricted in 
the number of shares he could trade. However, with the exception of the market volatility 
itself, I think in reality the cause was because its execution intermediary restricted its access 
to those shares and similar. 
I think Trading 212 took all reasonable steps that it could to provide a service and in the best 
interests of its customers. I say this because the unique, unprecedented interest and market 
activity in GME and KOSS  and similar affected stocks  caused an extreme strain on the 
entire trade execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading platform. 
27/28 January 2021 saw the most trading volume ever in the history of GME as an example 
so overall, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that these were not normal market 
conditions. 
And Trading 212 used the services of an execution intermediary and was reliant on that 
service in order for it to trade. Trading 212 didnt have direct access to the market. And it 
was the execution intermediary that wouldnt allow trading in GME (and other stocks that had 
been subject to extreme volatility) until its own capital adequacy and other issues were 
resolved. Additional collateral was required by the US clearing houses in order to ensure 
firms had sufficient liquidity to settle trades which took place two days after the actual trade 
date. 
This requirement tallies with Trading 212s comment that the outsized trading volumes in the 
shares generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Trading 212 
has given us a copy of its conversation trail with its execution intermediary which makes 
clear it repeatedly made contact to try and resolve the issue after it was made aware there 
was a problem. And I am satisfied this is an example of Trading 212 taking reasonable steps 
to execute trades and in my opinion, is consistent with its contractual obligation under the 
force majeure clause and to take reasonable steps to mitigate the impact. And Trading 212 
was simply unable to trade in those shares on its platform.
Trading 212 used the services of one execution intermediary, which I am satisfied it was 
entitled to do as its own commercial decision. And bearing in mind the market turmoil on the 
day, I think its unlikely Trading 212 could have engaged the services of a different 
intermediary or that a different intermediary would have been more successful in trading 
during this time than the intermediary it did use. 
And while I accept that Mr W wont be happy with the outcome. I am satisfied that he was 
reasonably able to access and trade on his account as evidenced by the filled orders during the period being complained about. Trading 212 has acknowledged that there was a 
downtime to its servers on 27 January, the reasons for which it has told us about I think are 
plausible and unforeseeable. 
I dont have any reason to think this downtime occurred other than on 27 January. And       
Mr Ws limitation on closing his positions or being restricted in the number of shares he could 
trade was outside of the control of Trading 212 who, in my opinion, had taken reasonable 
steps to execute the trades. The unprecedented volatility in the shares and the impact of that 
on trading was, in my view, one of the vagaries of stock market investment and is one of the 
risks that an investor takes when investing in the stock market. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Mr W did have reasonable access to his account and Trading 
212 did all that it reasonably could to mitigate the position with regard to its own ability to 
accept trades because of its execution intermediary. But some elements of the situation 
were outside of its control and it probably had very little practical choice in the matter. But 
overall, while Mr W may have experienced the downtime on 27 January 2021 and some 
other lack of access to his account at certain times for him to be able to trade as and when 
he liked, I dont think he has been treated unfairly by Trading 212 and I dont find it is 
responsible for any losses Mr W says he incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman