DRN-2782229
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a claim for fire damage under his buildings insurance policy was 
declined and the policy cancelled by Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIEL).
What happened
Mr D bought a property at an auction in March 2020.He said hed moved into the house 
while he was refurbishing it. One night in May 2020 he was sleeping in a detached annexe 
next to the house. He said that was because he didnt like the smell of paint. That night there 
was an arson attack and the property was badly damaged by fire.
He made a claim to AIEL. After investigation AIEL declined the claim. It said Mr D had 
wrongly told it the property was in a good state of repair. It also said Mr D wasnt covered for 
malicious damage because the property had been unfurnished for 30 days or more. AIEL 
cancelled the policy from the date of the claim and refunded part of the premium.
Mr D complained to AIEL. He said the repair works werent structural and hed furnished the 
property with enough for his needs at the time, including two beds, a sofa and kitchen 
appliances.
As AIEL didnt change its decision, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think AIEL had treated him unfairly. She thought AIEL 
should refund the total premium paid by Mr D and treat the policy as though it had never 
been in place.
As Mr D didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked various questions about 
themselves and what they want to insure. In essence the insurer is trying to assess how 
likely it is that the consumer will make a claim. It relies on the answers and information given 
by the consumer to weigh up the risk. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer or 
information is inaccurate or misleadingly incomplete. But the insurer will only be entitled to 
take action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Under the terms of CIDRA, there are two main factors I need to take into account in deciding 
whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. These are how clear and specific the 
insurers questions were and whether the consumer took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
Mr D bought the policy via an online comparison site. He was asked:
Is the property in a good state of repair and will it remain so during the policy period?
A screenshot from the comparison website also states:
For a property to be in a good state of repair there should be no evidence of:
incomplete building works
I think the question he was asked was clear and relatively straightforward. Mr C answered 
Yes.
He also said that the property would be fully occupied. 
Mr D paid £228,000 for the property. It had been listed for £125,000 and was described as 
requiring TLC to bring to former glory. Once refurbished this house would be likely to 
achieve £350,000. The marketing material also said it was suitable as an investment for 
any property developer or a project family home.
Photos of the inside of the house show a large room without a ceiling, bathroom fittings and 
kitchen units had been removed and there was damage to walls. I appreciate that no major 
structural work was required to make it fit to be lived in but I dont think it was fair to say that 
the property was in a good state of repair or free from damage or defect. Quite a lot of work 
was required to bring the property up to scratch and I think that was reflected in the 
difference between the price Mr D paid for the property and the value of similar properties 
nearby. So I dont think Mr D took reasonable care in answering that question. As a result 
Im satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
AIEL has confirmed if Mr D had disclosed that the property wasnt in good repair, the sales 
process would have stopped there and it wouldnt have offered cover in that situation. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions AIEL was entitled to take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances, the 
law allows AIEL to avoid the policy from the misrepresentation, being the date when he took 
out the policy, and not deal with any claims. It must then return any unused premiums the 
consumer paid. AIEL cancelled Mr Ds policy from the date of the loss and only refunded a 
proportionate part of the premium. But under CIDRA the insurer should repay the premium 
in full. I think thats what AIEL should have done in this case.
Its not clear to me whether the property was actually unfurnished and unoccupied. But I 
dont think that matters since AIEL was entitled to avoid the policy and decline all claims 
because of the misrepresentation referred to above. 
I sympathise with Mr D for the difficulties this has caused him but unfortunately for him I 
dont think AIEL is liable to pay his claim.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AIEL should refund the balance of the premium to Mr D. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to repay the balance 
of the premium to Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman