DRN-3561981
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about the amount of interest they were charged by Santander UK 
Plc when they redeemed their mortgage in March 2022.
What happened
In 2019 Mr G and Mrs G took out a capital and repayment mortgage with Santander UK Plc 
under which they paid interest at a rate that tracked the Bank of England (BoE) base rate. 
They switched to a new tracker rate for two years in around September 2021. But they were 
unhappy their interest payments were increasing as the base rate went up. So, in March 
2022 they re-mortgaged on a fixed rate to another lender. 
Santander issued a redemption payment which showed Mr G and Mrs G were paying 
interest on the Santander mortgage at a higher rate than they expected. They were unhappy 
Santander hadnt notified them in writing that the interest rate had gone up. They felt the 
additional interest had been charged because they were moving lender and should be 
repaid. Mr G spent time on the phone getting an explanation from Santander. He was 
unhappy they didnt tell him how he could take his complaint further. He felt Santander 
should also pay compensation for the inconvenience that caused. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint about what had happened. So, they 
brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator thought Santander 
had charged interest in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage and hadnt treated 
Mr G and Mrs G unfairly. Since Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree, their complaints been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Mrs Gs 2019 mortgage offer set out that theyd pay interest at 0.84% above the 
BoE base rate  a total of 1.59% at the time of the offer - for an initial 24-month period. After 
that, interest would be charged at Santanders follow on rate, which would track at 3.25% 
above the BoE rate. The offer made clear any change to the interest rate following a change 
to the BoE base rate would take effect on the third of the month following the date of the 
change.
In around September 2021, Mr G and Mrs G arranged a new interest rate product with 
Santander. Their new interest rate was 1.34% above the BoE base rate for a period of 24 
months. The product switch offer also made clear that any changes to the interest rate would 
continue to take effect on the third day of the month following any change to the base rate.
Condition 13 of the terms and conditions of Mr G and Mrs Gs mortgage said:
13 Interest at a Tracking Rate
13.1 The tracking rate (including any follow-on rate) will change on the third day of the month 
which immediately follows the month in which the base rate changes and by the same 
amount as any change in the base rate. If and for so long as the offer provides for interest to 
be charged at a tracking rate on any part of the capital, we will give you written notice of any 
change in the tracking rate at the same time as we give you notice of your changed monthly 
payment under condition 9.1.
Condition 9.1 said:
We may change the monthly payment at any time by giving you notice. The change will 
come into effect on the date stated in the notice (which will not be earlier than the date when 
we give the notice). 
Im satisfied the mortgage documents set out in terms that were clear, fair and not 
misleading, as Id expect, that any change in the interest rate would take effect on the third 
day of the month following a base rate change. It was also clearly set out that notice of the 
change would be given when Santander wrote to Mr G and Mrs G letting them know what 
their new monthly payments would be. That didnt mean the interest rate wouldnt change 
until theyd had notice  just that the amount theyd have to pay wouldnt change until theyd 
been notified what the new payments would be. I think that was fair as it gave them the 
chance to adjust their spending to take account of the change to their contractual monthly 
mortgage payments (CMP).
Santander explained how this worked when they wrote to Mr G and Mrs G in February 2022 
to let them know their payments would be going up. The letter set out that the interest rate 
had changed with effect from 3rd February; Mr G and Mrs G would continue to pay the CMP 
in February at the same level as they had been; theyd pay an increased amount in March to 
reflect the higher interest rate for March and interest deferred from February; and, after that, 
the monthly payments would reflect the new interest rate.
The interest rate increased again on 3rd March. Mr G and Mrs G redeemed the mortgage 
before Santander wrote to them confirming the increase and letting them know what their 
new CMP would be going forward. But that didnt mean Santander couldnt charge them the 
new rate of interest from 3rd March onwards. Mr G and Mrs G were liable to pay it under the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage. If theyd continued with the Santander mortgage, their 
CMP would have remained the same for March, but increased for April and the later months 
following the same process Santander had explained in February. The letter Santander sent 
Mr G and Mrs G in March  after theyd paid off the mortgage  confirms that. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think it was fair and reasonable for Santander to charge 
interest at the increased rate from 3rd March to redemption. 
Santander wrote to Mr G and Mrs G in March 2022 to explain how the interest due at 
redemption had been calculated. They confirmed the rates at which interest had been 
charged and over what period. And they explained the balances on which interest had been 
charged taking into account that the balance was reducing, and an overpayment Mr G and 
Mrs G had made. Ive noted a typographical error where Santander wrongly referred to the 
interest rate as 1.89% rather than 1.84% when discussing the interest charged between 3rd 
and 4th March 2022. However, their calculation used the correct rate. Overall, the 
calculations they set out were accurate. And the explanation was generally clear, as Id 
expect. 
Santander invited Mr G and Mrs G to contact them to discuss things if they werent happy 
and provided contact details. And they correctly referred them to the Financial Ombudsman 
if they werent happy with the outcome of their complaint. Overall, I think Santander responded to their concerns fairly and reasonably.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr G and Mrs G will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman