DRN-2436256
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) handled a claim 
made against his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A held a home insurance policy with Great Lakes. In June 2019 he made a claim for a 
damaged sofa under the accidental damage section of his policy.
Great Lakes says its agent tried to make an appointment with Mr A to inspect the sofa but 
Mr A says Great Lakes agent was supposed to call him back to make an appointment. The 
claim was closed at that time and reopened in December 2019 when Mr A contacted Great 
Lakes to chase up the progress of his claim.
In December 2019, Great Lakes loss adjuster carried out a desktop evaluation of the claim 
and declined it on the basis that it said Mr A had reported that the sofa broke when he sat on 
it. It said, if that were the case, it was likely the damage was caused by wear and tear or a 
manufacturing defect  so the claim wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr A wasnt happy that his claim had been declined without the sofa being inspected so 
Great Lakes agreed to send a different loss adjuster to inspect the damage to the sofa in 
person. The second loss adjuster stated that the damage to the sofa appeared to be the 
result of someone standing or jumping on the sofa, rather than as a result of the incident that 
had been reported.
Mr A says Great Lakes has noted his comments from when he reported the claim incorrectly 
and that the sofa was damaged when he dropped it while moving it. Great Lakes said that 
isnt what he told it when he reported the claim  and it has based its decision on the 
information he gave it during the initial claim call.
Our investigator didnt think the claim should be upheld. In short, he said that Great Lakes 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Mr A states that he didnt report that the sofa had been damaged when he sat on it and 
unfortunately the recording of the call where he reported the claim is no longer available. But 
I have seen the notes made by the call handler who took the call which state that the 
damage was caused from sitting on the sofa and there is also a note that Mr A had 
specifically said he didnt jump on the sofa.
Without the call recording, I need to decide what I believe to be likely on balance. And given 
the agents record of the conversation and other notes from the file, which reiterate this 
version of events to the agents inspecting the sofa, I think its likely that Mr A did report that 
the sofa had been damaged when he sat on it  even if Mr A is now stating that isnt the 
case.
Great Lakes has reached a decision on the claim based on what it was told when the claim 
was reported. The loss adjusters have concluded that if the damage to the sofa happened in 
the way it was reported then it is likely to have been the result of wear and tear or a 
manufacturing defect, which arent covered under the terms of this policy. So based on the 
information it had at the time, I dont think Great Lakes unfairly declined the claim.
There is some dispute over whether the Mr A was supposed to call Great Lakes agent back 
or if the agent was supposed to call Mr A back in July 2019. However, as the claim was 
ultimately declined, I dont think it makes a difference here as Mr A hasnt lost out as a result 
of the delay. And Great Lakes reopened the claim when Mr A got back in touch as I would 
have expected it to  so I dont think it needs to do anything further to put this right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman