DRN-2707992
The complaint
Mr R complains Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance ( Co-Op) unfairly 
recorded an incident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE).
What happened
In April 2020, Mr R was involved in a minor motor incident involving a parked car. He was 
initially told Co-Op would be accepting responsibility for the incident and settling the claim 
due to CCTV footage supporting the third partys version of events. However, in October 
2020 he was told the matter had been closed and the incident was now recorded on CUE as 
notification only. This was because the third party hadnt been able to provide evidence to 
show the collision had caused damage to their car and no claim was now being pursued. 
Mr R has said the incident wasnt his fault as the third party was parked on double yellow 
lines and no collision actually occurred. Hes also complained that his insurance premium 
with his new motor insurer increased as a result of the incident being recorded on CUE. Hes 
also unhappy he didnt receive the CCTV footage until May despite requesting it straight 
away, and he feels hes being punished because he changed insurer.
Co-Op apologised for the delay in providing the CCTV footage and said this happened due 
to a technical problem. However, they didnt think they had done anything wrong by initially 
accepting responsibility for the collision, and then recording a notification only incident on 
CUE once the matter was closed. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as she felt Co-Op had acted 
reasonably by recording the incident on CUE as notification only. Mr R didnt agree and 
said his premium shouldnt be impacted because of something that wasnt his fault and didnt 
cause any damage. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Mr Rs policy wording says Co-Op will share information with CUE and other 
databases to help us check information provided, to detect and prevent crime or 
fraud and to obtain information about your no claims history. This isnt an unusual 
term as most motor insurance policies include wording of a similar nature. Its also 
good industry practice.
Mr Rs incident has been recorded on CUE as notification only this means no claim 
was pursued but an incident was reported. Im satisfied Co-Op acted reasonably by 
recording the incident in this way, as it is an accurate reflection of what happened. 
Im aware Mr R feels Co-Op recorded the incident on CUE to punish him for 
changing insurer, but Im satisfied this wasnt the case. Co-Op recorded the incident 
as this is what they were required to do under the terms of the policy. The fact Mr R 
changed insurer didnt form part of their decision and the incident wasnt recorded to 
cause him any upset.
I dont think Co-Op acted unreasonably by initially accepting responsibility for the 
incident. This is because the CCTV footage shows Mr R unfortunately reversed into a 
parked car and a minor collision did happen. This remains the case, regardless of 
where the third party car was parked as Mr R was responsible for making sure his 
manoeuvre was carried out safely. However, as Ive explained above, this isnt 
reflected on the CUE record as the incident is only showing as  notification only and 
there is no indication as to fault.
Mr R has provided us with evidence that the cost of his new insurance policy 
increased due to the recording of the incident on CUE. I cant comment on how his 
new policy was priced as this policy was taken out with a different insurer. However, 
generally speaking it isnt unusual for some insurers to take notification only 
incidents into consideration, as it can suggest an increased risk of further incidents 
and claims being made in the future.   
Finally, I think Co-Op acted reasonably by apologising for the delay in providing Mr R 
with a copy of the CCTV footage, so they dont need to do anything more in relation 
to this.
My final decision
I appreciate Mr Rs frustration and upset, however, as an incident did happen, Im satisfied 
Co-Op acted reasonably by recording it on CUE. So, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman