DRN-4420599
The complaint
Miss M complains about Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) and their pricing of the premium 
she paid for her pet insurance policy. Miss M also complains about the service she received 
from GLI when she questioned this premium, and their refusal to provide her with a loyalty 
discount.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss M purchased a pet insurance policy underwritten by GLI to cover her 
dog, who Ill refer to as R. This policy renewed yearly. But in October 2022, Miss M was 
unhappy with the increase in premium from the year before and so, she contacted GLI to 
complain about this.
On the complaint call, GLI ascertained that R had been spayed in January 2020, but the 
policy information hadnt been updated to reflect this. So, they applied the spaying reduction 
to her renewal premium for 2022. And, as a gesture of goodwill, they backdated this 
reduction to the applicable premiums Miss M paid for previous policies. But Miss M remained 
unhappy.
She was unhappy that GLI refused to apply a loyalty discount, and that GLI hadnt called her 
back on the day her renewal was due as shed expected. Miss M also queried the premium 
refund GLI put forward, as she didnt think it was calculated correctly and she stated it also 
hadnt been received. So, because of all the above, Miss M wanted GLI to recalculate the 
premium refunds in a way she thought was correct and to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience shed been caused.
GLI felt Miss Ms premiums had been calculated correctly, based on the information they 
held at the time the renewals were calculated. But they accepted they couldve processed 
the premium refund to Miss M sooner, once theyd been made aware R was spayed. So, 
they apologised for this. But they didnt think they needed to do anything more, considering 
the refund had been paid. Miss M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they had seen 
GLIs pricing data, and they were satisfied Miss Ms premiums had been priced fairly, 
including the premium refund for the spaying reduction applied in 2022. And while they 
recognised Miss M expected a call from GLI on the date of her renewal, they thought GLI 
had continued to liaise with Miss M through email, in a timely manner. And, that they had 
confirmed the adjusted premium sent by email contained a typo in a reasonable amount of 
time. So, they didnt think GLI needed to do anything more than the apology already offered.
Miss M didnt agree. And she provided several reasons as to why. These included, and are 
not limited to, her belief that GLI has purposefully not called her back until the policy had 
renewed. And, that this failure to call her back had impacted her in a way that should be 
compensated financially. She also maintained her belief this reduction applied 
retrospectively for Rs spaying was done so incorrectly.
Our investigator considered these comments. And they listened to the original complaint call 
Miss M held with GLI when she felt a call back was promised. And while they agreed it was, 
our investigator didnt think a definitive timescale was provided. And they thought GLI had 
continued to correspond with Miss M in writing. So, their opinion remained the same. Miss M 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss M. I appreciate Miss M 
feels strongly about the way her premium refund has been calculated, and I acknowledge 
why, because of her professional background, she feels this way. I also recognise Miss Ms 
thoughts regarding her loyalty as a customer, and why this should come with a monetary 
value to her. So, as GLI have refused to increase the refund paid to Miss M, or offer any 
further discounts or reductions, I can understand why she feels unfairly treated. And I 
acknowledge how this feeling wouldve intensified when Miss M didnt receive a call back as 
she expected.
But for me to say GLI should do something more than they have already, Id need to be 
satisfied theyve done something wrong that hasnt already been fairly acknowledge and 
compensated for. So, Id need to be satisfied the way they calculated Miss Ms premiums, or 
the premium refund, was incorrect. Or, that Miss M has been impacted in a way that hasnt 
been acknowledged by the actions GLI have taken. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Ive first thought about the pricing of Miss Ms premiums. Ive seen GLIs pricing data, which 
shows how Miss Ms premiums were calculated from inception to the renewal in October 
2022. And while this information cant be shared directly, as its commercially sensitive, what 
I can say is it shows each premium starts from a base premium, that is applicable to every 
policy that holds that level of cover. So, while I recognise Miss M thinks the base premium 
for a renewal is directly linked to the previous years premium, and any reductions applied, 
Ive seen evidence to show this isnt the case here. 
And from this pricing data, Ive seen that there are several risk factors that are then 
considered, which ultimately lead to the premium price thats offered. GLI have confirmed 
that, from mid-2020, whether a pet was spayed or not was deemed a risk factor and so, 
impacted the premium offered.
And Ive seen in Miss Ms situations specifically, R wasnt listed as spayed at renewal in 
2020, or 2021, meaning she paid a slightly increased premium as the risk factor was 
increased. But as R was spayed at this time, I can understand why Miss M feels this is 
unfair.
But crucially, I dont think GLI had any way of knowing R was spayed until Miss M made 
them aware of this in 2022. And in the policy documents Miss M received in her previous 
renewals, Ive seen it clearly states that You must tell us as soon as possible if your pets 
details are wrong or change at any point. For example, you move home, your pet was 
spayed or neutered, or your pets age is incorrect. If your situation changes, this may affect your premiums..
So, I think the onus was on Miss M to make GLI aware that R had been spayed. And I cant 
see that she did until October 2022. So, I dont think I can say the premiums Miss R was 
charged for her previous policies were calculated unfairly. And I think that GLI have acted 
more than fairly by agreeing to back date this information to 2020, when spaying became a 
risk factor and after R had been spayed, when I dont think they were obliged to do so.
And I think this premium refund, which Ive seen was processed and paid on 8 November 
2022, was calculated correctly, on the basis each premium started with a base premium as 
Ive already explained to above. I was also pleased to see Miss Ms premium for the renewal 
in October 2022 was amended, and the premium she paid was correct based on the base 
premium for that policy year and the risk factors applicable, including the reduction for the 
fact R was spayed.
So, because of the above, based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy premiums 
Miss M has paid were calculated fairly. I note Miss M feels a loyalty discount shouldve been 
offered but GLI have confirmed this isnt something they offer any customer and crucially, 
this isnt something they are obliged to do. GLI have confirmed, and did so in conversations 
with Miss M, that she could alter the terms of her cover to increase her excess, or reduce the 
amount insured, to reduce the premium if she wished to do so. From what Ive seen, Miss M 
didnt take up this option and this was her own choice to do so. Because of the above, I dont 
think GLI need to do anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then turned to the service GLI provided. I note Miss G is unhappy with GLIs failure to 
call her back, stating her belief this was done purposefully to ensure her renewal date 
passed.
But I note Miss M received her renewal invitation by email on 14 September 2022, explaining 
her policy would renew on 12 October. And Miss M contacted GLI to challenge her premium 
on 11 October, the day before it was due to renew.
So, at this point, Miss M only allowed GLI a working day to consider, and respond, to her 
concerns. And I dont think it would be fair for me to expect GLI to do so, considering by this 
point Miss M had already had three weeks to raise her challenge.
Ive also listened to the call Miss M held with GLI on 11 October. And on this call, while GLI 
did say they would ask the relevant team to contact Miss M, they didnt confirm when this 
contact would be. And Ive seen Miss M emailed GLI the following day querying the premium 
price, with GLI responding within 2 hours explaining there had been a typo in the email sent 
the day before, confirming what the correct price was. And they also explained at this point 
that a call from the relevant team could take up to 7 days to receive.
So, while I do accept Miss M may have assumed a call back would be instantaneous, I dont 
think this is an expectation GLI unfairly created. Nor do I think their failure to call back had a 
significant impact on Miss M, as she still spoke to GLI on the day of renewal where the 
premium price was confirmed. Had Miss M not wanted to continue at this price, she had the 
chance to cancel the renewal. But I cant see she did.
And then following the renewal processing, Ive seen Miss M referred explicitly to her right to 
withdraw from the agreement within 14 days without charge. And again, I cant see Miss M 
did. And this was after GLI had already confirmed, on the phone call and in writing, that they 
would not look to offer a loyalty discount and that they were satisfied the premium was 
correct. So, I dont think Ive seen any evidence to show that GLI acted unfairly, or 
purposefully slowly, to influence Miss Ms decision to remain insured with them. Even so, I can see GLI offered an apology for the length of time it took them to process a 
refund of Miss Ms premiums paid on previous policies where the spaying wasnt declared. 
But Ive already explained above I dont think this was something they needed to do. And I 
think this action was taken as part of their response to Miss Ms complaint about the 
premium pricing. And businesses have up to eight weeks to investigate, and respond, to a 
customer complaint. I must note our service is also unable to comment on, or compensate a 
customer for, the way a business handles a complaint as complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity.
So, because of all the above, I dont think Im able to say GLI have acted unfairly, and so 
caused an impact to Miss M, that requires them to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this wont be the outcome Miss M was hoping for. And I recognise my decision 
may not have commented or referred directly to every point and comment Miss M has put 
forward. I want to reassure Miss M Ive considered all the representations shes made but for 
all the reasons Ive listed above, Im not upholding the complaint on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman