DRN-2980144
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland closed his accounts. He wants to know the 
reason and to have his accounts reinstated.
What happened
Mr P had personal accounts with RBS, two current accounts an ISA and a trustee account 
for Mr Ps son.
I am aware that Mr P has a complaint regarding his business accounts which is being dealt 
with separately. 
Following a review of the accounts, the accounts were closed with immediate effect of 
17 September 2020.
Mr P complained to RBS. RBS said it had relied on the terms of the account to close the 
accounts with immediate effect.
Mr P complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought that RBS had done nothing wrong when they reviewed and closed his accounts. 
Mr P was unhappy with the view he said he didnt agree to terms and conditions that allowed 
the bank to close the account with immediate effect. Mr P said he thought RBS had 
discriminated against him and he didnt accept RBS decision to close his accounts. Mr P 
says that the actions of the bank had compromised his credit rating.
Our investigator mentioned that Mr P would have agreed to terms and conditions of the 
account when the account was being opened.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ps accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied RBS were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ps accounts. 
I can see that in reviewing the account the bank were following an internal process which 
they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say RBS was unfair. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether RBS acted fairly in closing Mr Ps accounts. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case RBS closed Mr Ps 
account without notice. For RBS to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
accounts as its already done. 
Mr P has mentioned he never agreed to the terms and conditions of the account. However, 
the evidence Ive seen suggests otherwise so Im satisfied that hes bound by the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Whilst Mr P mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, RBS isnt required to 
give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say RBS has done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr P this information  as much as hed like to know.
Mr P has mentioned that RBS had discriminated against him when closing his accounts. I 
have looked at the evidence and Im satisfied that RBS had genuine reasons for closing 
Mr Ps accounts so I cant say the closure has anything to do with discrimination. 
I havent seen any evidence that the closure has affected Mr Ps credit rating. In any event 
looking at everything I cant say that RBS have done anything wrong when they blocked and 
closed Mr Ps accounts.
RBS has said that Mr P needs to fill in a funds released form in order to gain access to his 
money. I can see that in order to progress things and break the stale mate it would be 
beneficial for Mr P to do so. I dont think this is an unreasonable request, so I leave it to Mr P 
to complete this process in order to access his funds.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman