DRN-2563753
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Society of Lloyds (SOL) decision not to accept a claim she 
made under her Premier Guarantee new home warranty.
 
What happened
I recently issued a jurisdiction decision concluding that I could only look into part of Mrs Bs 
complaint.
I set out the background to Mrs Bs complaint in that jurisdiction decision. But for 
completeness, Ill repeat it again below.
There have been several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on behalf of 
SOL. For ease of reference, Ill only refer to SOL in this decision, even when referring to the 
actions of its agents or representatives.
Mrs B held a Premier Guarantee new home warranty which was underwritten by SOL. In 
September 2020 she contacted SOL to provide an expert report confirming that the building 
did not comply with fire safety regulations, and to make a claim for this under section 3.5 of 
her warranty  which included fire safety. She also requested various documents about the 
original construction of the property.
SOL didnt accept Mrs Bs claim. It said her warranty expired on 29 April 2020 so the issues 
she was reporting couldnt be considered. It told Mrs B that the documentation she was 
requesting wouldnt be made available to her as it was solely for the benefit of the policy 
underwriter.
Mrs B has argued that despite not being reported to SOLs, the issues were identified during 
the period of cover, so she feels they should be covered. She also believes that SOL doesnt 
have the information she has requested, which she feels is a breach of its regulatory and 
statutory obligations.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs B complaint. She explained that our service could 
only look at issues relating to the insurance element of Mrs Bs claim  which are regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). She said this meant she would only consider SOL 
decision not to accept the claim and not its decision to withhold documents relating to 
construction of the property. I considered what we can and cant look at separately in my 
jurisdiction decision.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint about SOLs claim decision should be upheld. 
She said it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect SOL to cover a claim which wasnt 
notified to it during the relevant period of cover.
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been able to 
be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy is broken into several sections, each offering slightly different cover. The 
relevant section in this case is section 3.5 (Additional cover for approved inspector building 
control function) as this includes fire safety. Ill summarise the cover below, placing 
additional emphasis on what I consider to be the key aspect in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Section 3.5 Additional cover for approved inspector building control function
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Structural Insurance 
Period against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying the Housing Unit where 
such repair, replacement or rectification cost is the result of a present or imminent 
danger to the physical health and safety of the occupants of the Housing Unit 
because the Housing Unit does not comply with Building Regulations that applied to 
the work at the time of construction, conversion or refurbishment in relation to the 
following:
Structure
Fire Safety
Site preparation and resistance to moisture

...
Based on the above, in order for Mrs Bs policy to respond to a claim under this section, the 
claim needs to be made during the structural insurance period. 
Mrs Bs policy certificate sets out the dates for each period of cover. This states Mrs Bs 
structural insurance period ran between 29 April 2012 and 29 April 2020  at which point 
cover under this section, and all other sections of Mrs Bs policy, expired. 
Issues with Mrs Bs building were initially discovered in December 2019 when an intrusive 
inspection to the northeast corner took place. This identified three main fire safety issues. 
The fire risk assessor suggested a more in-depth report should be commissioned by the 
managing agent  which was carried out and completed during the summer of 2020.
It wasnt until September 2020 that Mrs B notified SOL about the claim/potential claim under 
the warranty  after cover under her warranty had expired. I fully appreciate that the issues 
with Mrs Bs building were discovered before this. But whats key here is when the claim was 
made, not when the issues were discovered. The fact the issues were discovered during the 
structural insurance period doesnt change the fact that the claim wasnt notified to SOL 
during the required period. And I also note that Section 8 of Mrs Bs warranty document 
states that Mrs B was required to notify SOL as soon as reasonably possible about any 
circumstances which were likely to give rise to a claim. 
I fully appreciate the difficulty of the situation Mrs B has found herself in, and I sympathise. 
Its clear there are significant issues with her building. But in order for these issues to be 
covered by her warranty, a claim needed to have been notified to SOL as soon as 
reasonably possible, after the issues were discovered, and definitely by 29 April 2020. So, 
despite my sympathy for Mrs Bs situation, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct 
SOL to consider Mrs Bs claim, because her warranty cover had expired before she made 
her claim.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, I dont uphold Mrs B' complaint against 
Society of Lloyds.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman