DRN-4230576
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) has refused to refund over 
£26,000 she says she lost to an investment scam in January 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Following the death of her husband, Mrs S joined an online group for young widows with 
children. She struck up a friendship with a man (M) who claimed that he was also widowed 
with children. They spoke over the phone daily over the next few months and he also 
supported her when she was receiving treatment in hospital. 
In December 2021, Mrs S told M that she had just received an insurance pay out of £29,000. 
M encouraged her to invest it in cryptocurrency as he said she could triple her money. He 
recommended a broker based in Sweden  Ted Howard Financial Consulting  that he used, 
where he said she could invest in virtual property on the Metaverse. She began by investing 
£10,000 using her Co-op debit card, and over the course of around three months she 
transferred over £26,000 to a crypto account she had opened, where the funds were then 
forwarded to Ted Howards wallet. 
Mrs S realised she had been scammed when both M and Ted blocked her when she 
requested to withdraw her money. Co-op refused to refund the money she lost as she had 
authorised the payments. Our investigator also didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. He thought 
that the bank ought to have questioned Mrs S about the £10,000 payment she was making 
in January 2022 but didnt think this would have stopped her from making it due to the trust 
she had built with M. Mrs S disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2023. I said I was minded to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint and set out the following reasoning:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that she authorised 
the disputed payments she made to her crypto platform using her Co-op debit card 
(where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from her crypto 
wallet). The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security 
credentials provided by Co-op, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Co-op should have done more to prevent Mrs S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the disputed payments made by Mrs S, I am satisfied there were 
enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible regulated bank such as 
Co-op that her account was being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity 
from the £10,000 debit card payment she made to Simplex Elastum on 10 January 
2022. The only other large payments I can see being made from Mrs Ss account in 
the past are transfers to herself. There are no other debit card payments of a similar 
amount being made from her account in the months leading up to the scam. 
So, Im satisfied Co-op ought reasonably to have identified the transaction to Simplex 
Elastum as unusual and uncharacteristic. Therefore, it would have been reasonable 
for it to have properly questioned Mrs S about the nature of the payment before 
processing it in order to satisfy itself that all was well. It seems that Co-op did have 
some concerns about this payment, as I understand it sent her a text message 
asking her to confirm it was genuine. 
However, given the value and unusual nature of this transaction, I do not consider a 
text message to have been proportionate in the circumstances. There were 
reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention 
(such as phoning Mrs S in order to ask discreet questions about the nature and 
purpose of the payments). So, Im not persuaded that Co-Ops intervention went far 
enough, as no attempt to contact her to ask about the payment was made. 
If Co-op had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mrs S and 
asking suitably probing questions, Ive seen no reason to suggest she wouldnt have 
been forthcoming about what she was doing, and how she came to find out about the 
investment. Had the bank contacted her, it would have likely discovered that Mrs S 
had met someone online whom shed struck up a close relationship with  but had 
never met before  who was now encouraging her to invest a significant sum of 
money into cryptocurrency. 
It is clear that Mrs S has fallen victim to a cruel romance scam while she was 
vulnerable, and Co-op ought reasonably to have known the warning signs of 
someone falling victim to such a scam, such as the scammer spending time building 
a relationship before talking about money, and always having excuses as to why they 
cannot meet in person. The circumstances of the investment also wouldve sounded 
highly suspect, as Mrs S says she was told that she could triple her £29,000 
investment within a matter of months. She was also told that she would be investing 
in virtual property on the metaverse  which wouldve sounded highly dubious  and 
the bank would have discovered that she had been asked to open a cryptocurrency 
account to transfer money over to the investment broker, which Co-op wouldve 
known is a common hallmark of these sorts of investment scams. 
Overall, there were several warning signs surrounding the circumstances of Mrs Ss 
payment that it would have discovered had it questioned her. These are all common 
hallmarks of a romance/investment scam, so I consider there would have been 
reasonable grounds for suspicion here. So, Co-Op ought reasonably to have 
provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks of these sorts of scams. 
Mrs S has said herself that she was sceptical about the investment as it all sounded 
too good to be true, but she was simply told to trust the scammer as he knew what 
he was doing. If Co-op had provided a warning about romance or cryptocurrency 
investment scams, I believe that Mrs S would have paused and looked more closely 
into the investment before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was willing to 
take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. And given 
she was sceptical to begin with, it seems more probable that she would have carried out further research into romance related investment scams and would have 
discovered that this was what was likely happening to her. In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning to Mrs S from her trusted bank would probably have exposed 
the scammers false pretences and would have prevented any of her losses to the 
scam. So, I intend asking Co-op to refund the disputed payments she made.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000).
Mrs S says she carried out some research by looking at the brokers website 
firstgroupfinancial.com. I appreciate she was told by the scammer to trust him as he 
knew what he was doing. But she said she was sceptical about the investment, and 
found it all too good to be true. And given the things she was told  such as being 
able to triple her money in months, as well as investing in virtual property  I can 
understand why she had doubts, but it ought to have put her on notice that 
something wasnt right.
Given the significant amount Mrs S was investing, as well as the doubts she said she 
expressed at the time, its reasonable to expect a sufficient degree of independent 
research to be carried out to be satisfied the investment opportunity was actually 
genuine. But despite having concerns, Mrs S decided to proceed with the risk without 
carrying out any further checks. So, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mrs S to share responsibility for her loss in these circumstances, and I consider a 
deduction of 50% to be reasonable.  
Interest
Mrs S has said that if she hadnt fallen victim to the scam, she would have used the 
insurance money she received towards her sons university tuition, as well as for 
other purposes such as mental health counselling. As such  given that Mrs S has 
effectively been deprived of the money she could have otherwise used  I intend 
awarding 8% simple interest on the money Co-op will be refunding.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mrs S accepted the proposals set 
out in my provisional decision. Co-op failed to respond by the deadline with any further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had any further comments or evidence to put forwards, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc 
to:
Refund the disputed payments Mrs S made to the scammer from 10 January 2022 onwards, less a 50% deduction in recognition of Mrs Ss own responsibility towards 
her loss;
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date the payments were 
made to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman