DRN-4149488
The complaint
Mr L complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED, trading as Likely Loans, (Oakbrook) 
lent to him when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Mr L took two loans from Oakbrook and his complaint was about both. But the second loan 
has been resolved between Mr L and Oakbrook and so I have not been asked to review that 
one. 
The first loan was approved for Mr L on 14 May 2021. It was for £5,000 and was to be repaid 
over 12 months with a repayment figure of £564.60 each month and total amount to repay of 
£6,775.20. 
Mr L was represented originally but that has altered and he has brought the complaint as a 
private individual with no representative involved.
After that first complaint to Oakbrook, it issued his representative with the final response 
letter (FRL) dated 5 September 2022. 
At the time of your clients application, we considered that they were able to afford 
the loan repayments as after considering your clients housing costs, existing credit 
commitments, non-discretional living expenses, the monthly cost of the requested 
Likely Loan and an additional Expenditure Buffer, your client had remaining 
disposable income of £866.72.
We verified your client's income using the bank account data supplied by your client. 
The FRL has twelve bullet points specific to the May 2021 search that Oakbrook had 
obtained from the review of Mr Ls credit history. And so, I do not repeat them here as Mr L 
will have received that FRL, but it demonstrates that it had undertaken a credit search. 
In his complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman Service, dated October 2022, Mr L 
describes the situation at the time of completing that form. 
I have been severly [sic] financially and mentally affected by this situation. I have a 
huge amount of debt due to borrowing money to try and make sure I keep up with 
payments. I have 3 loans that mean I have to pay back £1400 a month. My credit 
card debt is £7,000. I make £1,790 after tax per month which makes it impossible to 
pay the amount owed plus my normal bills including food. 
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint about both loans and as I have said already he did not think that 
Oakbrook needed to put things right for loan 1 but he did for loan 2. Oakbrook agreed. Mr L 
agreed about loan 2 but he wanted an ombudsman to review loan 1 again.
So, the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide on loan 1. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakbrook had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Oakbrooks checks couldve considered several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Oakbrook should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L, but as Mr Ls first loan is what I 
am reviewing that does not apply here.  
Oakbrook was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L suffered a severe shock in or around September 2022 and so I have noted that, but it 
does post-date the application for this first loan. I was sorry to read of this event but it is 
largely irrelevant for the purposes of assessing Oakbrooks lending decision in May 2021. 
But obviously this has had a huge impact on Mr Ls life. Mr L had declared that he earned around £32,000 before tax each year and Oakbrook had 
verified his income as being £2,660.83 a month. I note that this is either the gross figure 
each month, or it may have been that through the verification checks it had carried out, 
Oakbrook had picked up that Mr L was receiving additional benefits as well as his net 
income. 
Oakbrook has said to us:
For income verification we have access to Current Account Turnover (CATO):
Banks, building societies and basic bank account providers can share current 
account debit and credit data, which can be used to help validate income, assess 
affordability and manage risk.
Mr L has sent to us his bank account statements and I address later in this decision the 
situation surrounding Oakbrook and his bank statements. But as I have them I have used 
them to check some detail. 
Mr Ls bank account statements for March 2021 (the ones Mr L has sent to us) do indicate 
that on 31 March 2021 he received around £1,952 after tax as a salary payment and around 
£605 in benefits on the same day plus he had received £505 on 8 March as well. It looks like 
those benefits were paid each two weeks. So, it is likely that the income verification tool had 
picked up both sets of credits and had used that. Either way  the income figure Oakbrook 
used seems to have been broadly accurate, and may have been a little low. 
Mr L has challenged our adjudicators view in relation to Oakbrook having carried out a 
satisfactory credit search in May 2021. Mr L has cited our adjudicator as having explained 
this: 
Oakbrook Finance are unable to provide us with a copy of the credit file they 
reviewed at the time [Mr L] applied for his loan. Theyve reviewed the credit file for 
the time the complaint was raised.
Mr L is right to raise it as his view is that his credit file searches would have revealed a poor 
history and one that may have deflected Oakbrook from making the decision it did. 
But our adjudicator may have missed some detail which I have focussed on alternatively 
there may have been a misunderstanding as to what our adjudicator meant. The credit 
search itself that Oakbrook carried out may not have been available to our adjudicator but in 
its submissions to us Oakbrook has summarised its findings from that credit search. And 
Oakbrook has explained that it did not do another credit search at the time Mr L complained 
in June 2022. And even if it had I would have considered that irrelevant.
Oakbrooks explanation has been received by us which is:
Oakbrook Finance do not have an actual credit report from the time of this 
application. We are unable to obtain the credit report and our response and 
subsequent review has been based on the credit file data [it refers to a table]
At the time of the two acquisitions applications, we retrieved coded data from a 
customers credit file via the credit reference agency, [name given] which is then 
processed through our scorecard, as is usual practice within the financial services 
sector. Where we have referred to the information in [Mr Ls] credit file it is this data 
we are referring to and which we provided in the tables within our business
response and not [Mr Ls] current credit file. Only the decoded data has been 
reviewed at the point of complaint, no current credit file has been reviewed as part of 
the investigation.So, having corrected that factual part of the complaint information and/or cleared up a 
misunderstanding from our adjudicators wording, then I have reviewed what Oakbrook had 
sent to us about that credit search carried out in May 2021. 
Mr L appeared to have gone through a difficult time financially in November 2016 and 
December 2016 as he had several accounts which had been defaulted around that time. 
These were three credit or store cards, two bank accounts, and a hire purchase account. All 
had been paid off except for the hire purchase account which showed a sum still owing of 
£2,290. Oakbrook had factored the equivalent of a £70 (approximate) repayment into his 
monthly outgoings to cover that debt and had noted that all the defaults were 53 months 
before this application. 
I consider that a long enough gap between the adverse entries and the application for 
Oakbrook to have factored that into its creditworthiness assessment without being too 
concerned. Lenders such as Oakbrook often lend where there is some adverse information 
on a customers credit file. 
But apart from this  in May 2021  Oakbrooks information was that his other accounts were 
relatively modest and he had a total debt of £300 (rounded up to the nearest £100) with 
2 active CAIS, .. which were references to two active credit/store cards. 
As Mr L had not given any information about his living expenses Oakbrook had used 
statistical data and information from his credit file search to get figures - £1,036 each month 
 and it had  factored in a buffer of £112 (rounded figure) each month. 
Mr L has also explained that to pay back the Oakbrook first loan he had to take another loan 
in October 2021. But that was irrelevant when I am considering the May 2021 lending 
decision. And Mr L has also said that he had to borrow from friends. Again, if that borrowing 
post-dated the May 2021 lending decision it is irrelevant for my purposes and in any event, 
Oakbrook would have had no way of knowing that Mr L had borrowed from friends and/or 
family. 
Mr L has raised that he had taken a guarantor loan in February 2015. That was a significant 
period before applying for the Oakbrook loan in May 2021. And I doubt that it  or the late 
payments Mr L says would be on that record (not that Ive seen those)  would have led to it 
altering its decision to lend. 
And a loan taken with a different lender in 2016 was ultimately paid off by his sister. Again, 
my view is, all that would have shown to Oakbrook was that it was repaid which can be a 
positive point on anyones credit record. I doubt that a closed loan before the May 2021 
application date would have made a difference to Oakbrooks lending decision. 
Mr L has said that he has been stretched financially and he has mentioned that he has 
borrowed from his current partner and another family member in the past and is currently 
repaying his partner. But its unlikely Oakbrook would have known of these. 
Unless, Mr L had informed Oakbrook about the gambling issue Mr L has told us he had at 
the time, then I cannot attribute that knowledge to it. Ive seen no evidence of Oakbrook 
knowing of this spending by Mr L. 
The credit search Oakbrook did carry out  and which I have reviewed the summary of the 
results for  then I do not think that there was enough to prompt Oakbrook to have gone a 
step further and investigated Mr Ls financial position any more than it did.  This was a first loan and it was for a significant sum of £5,000 but over a relatively short term 
and the income and expenditure information Oakbrook had and had done some checks then 
that loan looked to have been affordable.
The key point here is that I consider Oakbrook had carried out checks that were 
proportionate, what it had discovered did not prompt it, and I would not necessarily have 
expected it to have been prompted, to have carried out additional checks. And so, I would 
not necessarily have expected Oakbrook to have asked for and/or reviewed Mr Ls bank 
account statements. 
Even if it had, the bank account statements for the account ending ****98 from Mr L (sent to 
us) do not show financial difficulties. 
Overall, I consider that Oakbrook carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and I do not 
uphold his complaint about that loan.
In relation to loan 2  taken in March 2022  two months after hed repaid loan 1 early, then 
I make no findings as I understand that to have been resolved to Mr Ls satisfaction. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman