DRN-3658177
The complaint
Mr Ts complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made 
on his home emergency policy when he had a leak in his bathroom  in particular the delays 
which occurred.
What happened
Shortly before Christmas 2021, Mr T found his bathroom taps were leaking.  So he 
contacted British Gas and asked them to send an engineer to make repairs.  An engineer 
who came to Mr Ts home arrived late in the day but didnt start the repairs, as he said they 
would take some time to complete.  A second appointment was arranged for the following 
day but was cancelled. 
An engineer attended a week after the initial appointment.  Because Mr T wanted taps from 
a premium range, hes bought replacements for the bath and basin.  The engineer fitted the 
new bath taps without any problem.  But, when he tried to replace the basin taps, the fixing 
bolt broke.  The engineer told Mr T this meant he may not be able to replace the taps without 
breaking the basin.
Mr T contacted the engineers the next day about getting the basin replaced if it broke.  While 
the engineers said they would look into getting a like for like replacement, they didnt follow 
up on this until early in the new year.  At this point the engineers referred Mr T back to British 
Gas.
Mr T sent a complaint to British Gas.  British Gas responded and set out the details of what 
had happened.  They confirmed theyd originally told Mr T that, if the basin was damaged by 
replacing the taps, theyd replace it with a standard one  not on a like for like basis.  But 
after speaking to Mr T, they agreed to replace the basin on a like for like basis.  Mr T 
sourced a replacement, which he was told would take several weeks to arrive.  And to speed 
matters up, British Gas agreed to pay the petrol costs of a family member collecting the 
basin.
An appointment was arranged for early April to attempt to replace the taps without breaking 
the basin, or to replace it if that wasnt possible.  This was postponed to the end of April as 
Mr T was ill.  On this occasion, an engineer went to Mr Ts home, but the repair was not 
completed, and Mr T asked the engineer to leave his home.  Mr T has not made any more 
appointments since then to have the work completed, and told British Gas hed have it done 
by someone else.
British Gas recognised their service had fallen below the standard they should have 
provided.  They offered Mr T £135 compensation for this, as well as paying him £300 for the 
basin and £47.04 for the cost of petrol to collect it. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with British Gass resolution and brought his complaint to us.  He told 
us he thought British Gas should reimburse him the cost of the replacement taps he bought.  
And he didnt think £135 compensation was enough to recognise the stress and 
inconvenience hed been caused by their handling of the issue.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think British Gas needed to do any 
more to resolve it.  He agreed there were delays in dealing with the claim.  But he said these 
werent British Gass fault after Mr T was ill, as he asked the engineer to leave at the next 
appointment and hadnt allowed them access since.  So he said the £135 compensation was 
fair.
And he noted British Gas had covered the cost of the basin, even though he didnt think they 
needed to do this under the policy.  And he said the policy provided that items which needed 
replacing would only be replaced with standard items  not on a like for like basis.  So it was 
unreasonable to say British Gas should reimburse Mr T for the premium taps hed bought.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Ts found himself in an upsetting situation.  But I can only decide British Gas 
should do more to compensate than theyve already done, if Im satisfied the claim hasnt 
gone as it should have because British Gas did something wrong  and those mistakes 
(rather than the situation of needing repairs) have had a negative impact on Mr T.  
Id expect British Gas to deal with Mr Ts claim in line with the terms of his policy.  Ive 
studied this.  It covers repairs to his plumbing or, if repairs arent possible, replacement of 
parts.  Sanitary ware (defined as the toilet bowl and cistern, bidet, sink pedestal, bath and 
shower tray) isnt covered.  And under the heading Replacement parts it says:
Well try to provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same 
features or an identical make and model or type of fitting. For example, we may replace an 
electric vehicle charger or a specific design of tap with a standard one from our range.
That means Id expect the engineer to consider repairing the taps first.  But, once hed 
decided that wasnt possible, Id expect them to replace the taps with a standard one.
Mr T didnt want a standard replacement, but with taps of a similar type to the broken ones.  
Hes entitled to make that choice.  But it doesnt mean British Gas has to provide, or pay for, 
his choice.  They said their engineer would replace the broken taps with the ones Mr T had 
bought.  I think thats fair and British Gas dont need to pay for Mr Ts more expensive 
choice.
And I think the £300 British Gas have paid for the basin, alongside the fuel costs of Mr Ts 
relative to collect it, are fair.  Although, as Ive noted above, sanitary ware isnt covered 
under the policy, I think it was reasonable for British Gas to cover the cost of the basin and 
its associated costs, because they anticipated theyd have to break it to repair the taps.  
Finally, Ive thought about the £135 British Gas paid Mr T to compensate him for the 
shortcomings in their handling of his claim.  Again, Ive started by looking at the policy, which 
says:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.As that doesnt give a definite timeframe, Ive thought about whats reasonable.
British Gass engineer first attended Mr Ts home four working days after he reported the 
fault.  I think that was reasonable and in line with the policy terms.  The engineer said he 
couldnt do the repair that day.  I think that was reasonable too, as they couldnt decide how 
long the job would take before seeing it.  They told Mr T theyd return the following day to do 
the job, but then didnt return for a week.  I think that raised Mr Ts expectations.  So its 
reasonable to include that delay in my assessment of the compensation.
I can see that Mr T contacted the engineers the following day to follow up on having the 
basin replaced if it were needed.  There was then no contact until after the Christmas holiday 
period.  At this point, Mr T raised the complaint which resulted in British Gas agreeing to 
cover the cost of a new basin.  
Once this was agreed, further delay resulted from having to wait for the replacement basin to 
be available.  Once it was available, an appointment was made for early April.  But this was 
cancelled because Mr T was ill.  Neither of these things were the fault of British Gas, so I 
dont think its fair to take them into account when considering the compensation.
An engineer did attend when Mr T had recovered.  But Mr T and his family found the 
engineer to be rude and asked him to leave without completing the work.  And they said the 
engineer was sent to try and replace the taps, rather than replace them and the basin.
Its up to Mr T who he allows into his home.  But I cant say British Gas were responsible for 
his decision to ask the engineer to leave.  Nor do I think it was unreasonable for British Gas 
to check if the taps could be replaced on the original basin before replacing it.  Repairing of 
replacing sanitary ware isnt covered by the policy and I dont think its fair for me to say 
British Gas should have incurred this cost without checking it was necessary.
So, overall, I can see a few days delay in dealing with the claim before Christmas, and a 
further short delay in the new year.  I think the payment of £135 is a reasonable sum to 
compensate Mr T for those delays.  So I dont think British Gas need to do any more to 
resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman