DRN-3377690
The complaint
Miss O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account and registered a CIFAS 
marker.
What happened
Miss O says that HSBC closed her account in 2018. She only recently found out that a 
CIFAS marker had been added. This was when her account with another financial business 
was closed. She has had difficulty trying to open an account elsewhere.
HSBC said in its final response that it hadnt made any mistake and had closed her account. 
This followed a review taking into account transactions that had been made.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the CIFAS marker 
removed. She said that there is a high bar for a CIFAS marker to be added. HSBC had 
asked Miss O at the time about a fraudulent cheque for £14,190 that had been paid into the 
account on 12 December 2017. She had told it that she didnt recognise this and some other 
credits into and then paid out from her account at that time. As a result of these it had 
decided to close the account and had registered the marker.
Miss O had told her that she was away at around that time and that her ex-boyfriend knew 
her online banking details. Shed asked that her debit card be replaced but hadnt been 
given any advice about her online banking. Our investigator said that there was no evidence 
that Miss O had been complicit or had knowingly allowed her account to be used in 
fraudulent activity.
Miss O accepted the recommendation. 
HSBC didnt agree. It said that Miss O hadnt mentioned the holiday when she had spoken to 
staff in a branch about the payments in February 2018. Miss O had also told it that her 
boyfriend had access to her details and PIN which was a breach of the terms and conditions 
of the account. The card on the account had been replaced in September 2017 and Miss O 
had then told it that the PIN hadnt been compromised. At the time of the credits the account 
seemed to have been used normally. It said that Miss O misused the account and broke the 
terms and conditions which led to the application of the marker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
The information is that the only payment into the account identified as fraudulent was the 
cheque for £14,190. It had been paid into an automated machine and was stopped that day 
by the branch. There is no record of it as a result on Miss Os statement and so she clearly 
didnt benefit from it. She wasnt it seems asked about this until February 2018, after her 
account had been identified for a review.
When the review took place, she was also asked about other credits that had entered her 
account and then been quickly removed. These for example included two credits of £2,000 
on 5 December 2017 which were then transferred out. These werent reported to HSBC as 
fraudulent, but Miss O said she didnt know about them. She said her boyfriend had access 
to her account.
There has been an inference drawn by HSBC between Miss O breaching the terms and 
conditions of the account and her being complicit in fraud. If her account details were known 
by someone else she trusted who could have made transfers online then the question is 
whether she was a witting participant in the attempted fraud. That specific issue doesnt 
seem to have been pursued with her further at the time. 
I think that there was sufficient concern about the lack of care Miss O admitted she was 
giving to her security information for HSBC to decide to block and then close the account. 
Having listened to her call with this service she is understandably vague now about events 
over four years ago. But Im not satisfied that HSBC has been able to demonstrate that she 
knew about the activity and was complicit in the attempted fraud through her account. 
HSBC says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss O received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether HSBC was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that HSBC needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Os account of events and the evidence HSBC has provided, Im not 
satisfied that HSBC had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC Bank UK Plc to remove the 
CIFAS marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman