DRN-3322029
The complaint
Mr S complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Any reference to Mr S or St Andrews includes that of respective agents or representatives.
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In July 2019, Mr S made a claim on his St Andrews buildings insurance policy 
following an escape of water from the mains. This caused damage to the property. 
St Andrews carried out monitoring of the property across the next year. It concluded 
subsidence was being caused by clay shrinkage. It appointed an arborist in 
September 2020, and they produced a report shortly after. This recommended a 
number of trees in the area to be removed to stop the movement. St Andrews 
engaged with the owners of the trees regarding their removal.
Mr S complained, saying the monitoring carried out was insufficient and flawed. And 
St Andrews stabilisation method should be to underpin the property. Following back 
and forth, St Andrews said it would consider any evidence provided by Mr S own 
engineer and a site visit was arranged. 
In February 2021 a geotechnical report was produced. And soon after the arborist 
revised their report, making specific directions on several trees being removed and 
various other trees and vegetation being maintained.
In April 2021, further drain repairs were completed and Mr S provided his own 
engineers report to St Andrews. St Andrews said it had been engaging with the 
owners of the vegetation in question and chasing for responses where necessary.
In July 2021 St Andrews appointed a new expert to take over the claim. And it said it 
had reviewed Mr S engineer report, but it still believed the right steps to resolve the 
subsidence would be to undertake the arborists directions in the first instance. And if 
this did not succeed it would reconsider other methods such as underpinning.
In September 2021 St Andrews said some of the affected vegetation had tree 
preservation orders (TPOs) on them so it would require monitoring evidence to 
submit alongside its application to have them removed. Following this it completed 
further drain works and said it was continuing to monitor.
St Andrews considered several complaints about the claim, and offered £250 for 
various service issues across a number of responses.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She said the comments of Mr S 
engineer about the method of stabilisation appeared to be based on preference as 
opposed to proof St Andrews method would not be successful. She said St Andrews 
had not been clear about its position on the boreholes but would need to consider 
this within its monitoring going forward. And that it shouldve taken earlier steps to 
progress matters with third parties about TPOs.
The Investigator directed St Andrews to award £700 in total compensation for its 
mistakes across the life of the claim. And she said it should take appropriate action 
regarding boreholes, and provide Mr S with updates on its engagement with relevant 
third parties.
St Andrews agreed to the Investigators assessment. But Mr S didnt, reiterating the 
property should be underpinned. And that the removing trees method could lead to 
the matter ongoing for several more years before repairs to the home begin. He also 
provided further commentary from his own engineer alongside other evidence.
Our Investigator didnt change her mind, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Stabilisation method
The crux of this complaint appears to me on the method of stabilisation that St Andrews has 
pursued. Put simply, St Andrews believes it can stabilise the property following the 
recommendations of its appointed arborist. And for it to be able to achieve the removal of the 
relevant vegetation, it needs to engage with the third-party owners and obtain their 
agreement. This solution will also require ongoing maintenance of third-party vegetation in 
years to come to prevent the movement reoccurring.
St Andrews has also been clear to Mr S that this method would be attempted first, and 
should the removal of the vegetation not be possible, or not successful it would instead 
consider engineering solutions. Insurers do consider costs when considering different 
methods of repair or how to settle a claim. This in itself isnt unfair, and I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect insurers to be prudent when making this kind of decision. However, 
in handling a claim and considering costs an insurer cannot lose sight of its obligations under 
the policy  and in this instance to ensure an effective and lasting repair, and to handle the 
claim fairly and promptly.
So, Ive gone on to consider Mr S evidence and reasons for disagreeing.
Mr S has expressed concerns St Andrews vegetation control solution may take a long time, 
the third parties may not agree to the maintenance or removal of the vegetation, any 
potential subsequent buyers of the third party property may not agree to the maintenance in 
the future, and these agreements may make his property hard to sell.
I understand why these points may concern Mr S. But at this point, the discussions with the 
third parties are yet to be concluded. So, its possible St Andrews will not be able to proceed 
with this method anyway. But I think its reasonable it is given the opportunity to do so. It has 
also explained to Mr S that taking these steps and putting the third parties on notice may 
allow it to take legal action in the future to recover costs associated with further damage and 
subsequent necessary repairs. Again, Im satisfied this is a reasonable step for an insurer to 
take in light of any future works that may be required.I also would comment that I understand Mr S believes the property may be easier to sell in 
the future if it were underpinned. This may be the case, but this isnt St Andrews concern 
within its role as an insurer obligated to provide an effective and lasting repair in line with the 
policy terms. So, these points do not change my mind. 
Mr S has also provided commentary from his own engineer who has given their reasons for 
recommending a piled raft underpin solution instead. In summary these are vegetation 
control solution put forward by St Andrews will take time and other trees in the area may still 
pose a future risk to the property. It also said this method could result in significant heave 
damage, and that the work would be a very difficult balancing act.
Ive carefully considered the engineers comments. But these havent persuaded me either. I 
say this as their commentary does not show St Andrews proposed method to be flawed, but 
instead more complicated with various risks involved. I would expect St Andrews to take into 
account all of these risks and manage them accordingly as it takes the claim forward.
For these reasons, Im satisfied St Andrews proposed solution to stabilise Mr S property is 
a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances.
Claims handling
St Andrews has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to provide 
appropriate information on the progress of his claim to its policyholders. 
In this case St Andrews has acknowledged it has made various mistakes within its service 
and handling of the claim. This has included a lack of communication, unnecessary delays, 
and mistakes within its investigations. So, I wont go over each of these again in detail 
suffice to say Im satisfied these failings wouldve made this claim more difficult and 
challenging for Mr S than necessary.
Mr S has provided this service with email chains and commentary in which St Andrews 
recognised a failing within its site investigations and it subsequently removed that contractor 
from its panel as a result. And it assured Mr S a secondary site investigation was carried out 
to evaluate the claim properly. I can understand why this would have caused Mr S frustration 
and distress in the circumstances  and that without Mr S intervention this matter may have 
been overlooked and not rectified as it was. 
St Andrews has now agreed to pay Mr S £700 in total compensation for its handling of the 
claim. And in the circumstances, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable sum for it to pay.
St Andrews has also agreed to provide timescales to Mr S on its next steps. This is 
important as we wouldnt expect an insurers communications with third parties to go on 
indefinitely. So, I would expect St Andrews to keep in mind its obligations to handle the 
claim promptly while taking it forward. This means if negotiations or communications do not 
develop or conclude within a reasonable period of time, Id expect St Andrews to reconsider 
its position on the vegetation control solution.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. St Andrews Insurance Plc must pay Mr S £700 
in compensation. It may deduct any compensation already paid for this claim up to £250 
from this figure. It must also provide Mr S with timescales on the next steps for the claim 
including its engagement with third parties and any remaining monitoring.
St Andrews must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman