DRN-4158326
The complaint
Miss A complained about the advice she received from Hey Habito Ltd (Habito) when she 
was remortgaging a rented property. She said Habito let her down, and its failures meant 
she was paying more for her mortgage each month now. 
What happened
Miss A said she was very unhappy with the work Habito did in securing her Buy To Let 
(BTL) remortgage. She was particularly concerned that she ended up paying a higher 
interest rate, after her LTV actually decreased. And she said Habito gave her the wrong 
information on how to appeal against a valuation, meaning her appeal failed. Shed then had 
to find an extra £46,000, to make up for the gap between lending based on the valuation and 
what shed expected to borrow. 
Miss A said Habito blamed her lender, but she said shed trusted Habito to help and support 
her. She wanted Habito to cover the difference in her monthly payments over the fixed 
interest period. And she wanted compensation for her time and the stress all this caused. 
Habito said that it understood Miss A had complained about a number of separate points, 
and it addressed each of these in its complaint response to her. 
Habito said it first heard from Miss A in late December 2021, but it thought it was clear that 
mortgage interest rates discussed in December and January 2022 were just initial enquiries, 
and it had never suggested these rates were secured. Miss A had said she was going to 
source lending elsewhere, after this, then came back to Habito. So as Miss A was exploring 
options elsewhere, Habito didnt think it had caused any loss at this stage. 
Habito said Miss A then spoke to it again in March, and Habito did then issue a mortgage 
illustration, but this document itself was clear that it could change after the date of issue. 
Habito said there was then a short delay, because Miss A hadnt updated her address to the 
property that she was actually living in at that time. Habito said that delayed the submission 
of an application for her, and rates went up in this time. 
Habito said once the application was done, Miss As lender then received a valuation which 
was less than Miss A expected. This impacted her maximum borrowing. Habito said it had 
told Miss A how to appeal, which it based on the lenders appeal form. So Habito said it had 
correctly informed Miss A of how to appeal.
Habito said it did, wrongly, tell Miss A that her appeal was successful, but it wasnt. Habito 
said this was a mistake, and it would like to pay Miss A £50 to say sorry for that. 
Habito said after Miss As valuation appeal was declined, it had asked Miss A if she wanted 
to look for another lender, but she chose to increase her deposit. Habito said that reduced 
her loan to value (LTV) below what shed originally applied for. Habito said it had tried to 
only decrease the loan amount and keep her original rate, but the lenders systems did not 
allow this. Habito said it had spoken to the lender, and was told it had to select a new 
product.
Habito said it had told Miss A about an affordability concern raised by the lender, and then 
escalated the issue internally. It said after it challenged the lender again, this condition was 
removed. 
So Habito said that, apart from wrongly informing Miss A that her appeal valuation was 
successful (which it had offered £50 for) it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Habito made a 
mistake about the valuation appeal process. She thought the offer it made, of £50, for 
wrongly informing Miss A that her appeal was successful, was fair. She said that the change 
in the interest rate was a result of a change in the range of products Miss A could secure. 
She did think Habito had contacted the lender about removing the affordability condition, 
requiring Miss A to repay a loan, and she said this was resolved within two days of its initial 
call to the lender. So our investigator didnt think Habito had to do more than it had already 
offered to do.
Miss A didnt agree. She continued to argue that an increase in interest rate couldnt be a fair 
response to a reduction in LTV. And she sent emails, which she said showed she hadnt 
been told the correct criteria for appealing her valuation. Our investigator didnt change her 
mind, and Miss A had indicated that she wanted an ombudsman to consider her case. So 
this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusions on this as our investigator. Ill deal with each of 
the issues raised in turn below.
Rates initially discussed werent held for Miss A  I have read the communications that Miss 
A had with Habito in December 2021 and January 2022, and I dont think Habito had given 
Miss A to understand that it was doing anything more than letting her know about rates 
available in the market at the time. 
Miss A then contacted Habito in March, and it looks like she did want to put in an application 
at this stage, but it emerged in her discussions with Habito that the address shed given it 
wasnt where she was living. Miss A simply hadnt updated her address to her then home, as 
I understand she was hoping this would be more temporary than it had turned out to be. 
I do think it was reasonable for Habito to say that it would need to make a mortgage 
application using Miss As actual address at the time, and I can see that there was then 
some delay before proof of address was available. I dont think this was a mistake by Habito. 
I understand that rates unfortunately rose in this time.
Valuation Miss As concern is she wasnt aware the comparable valuations she provided 
had to date from before the valuation her lender carried out. She says she wasted time 
getting valuations that the lender would never have considered, because Habito didnt tell 
her this. But I dont think Habito knew. Miss As screenshots of the emails Habito sent to her, say she was asked to provide details 
of comparable properties ..that have had let agreed within the last 3 months. And the 
lenders form says it wants to see details of comparable properties  rented (at least 
subject to contract) within the last 3 months. So I think what Habito told Miss A about the 
evidence required for an appeal was consistent with what the lenders form requests. 
When the lender replied to this appeal, it said it wanted details of properties rented out in the 
three months prior to the valuation. I note that this additional qualification isnt at all clear on 
the lenders own evidence form. So, unfortunately, on what Ive seen to date, I dont think the 
exact time period the lender wanted evidence to date from, would have been clear to Habito 
until the point where the lender explained to Habito why Miss As appeal hadnt been 
successful. I dont think thats Habitos fault.
Mistake over appeal outcome  Habito accepts that it wrongly indicated to Miss A that her 
appeal against the valuation was successful. I can see that on Friday 13 May, Habito told 
Miss A it thought the valuation was now satisfied. But on Tuesday 17 May, Habito corrected 
its mistake. I understand this was disappointing for Miss A, and I appreciate it would have 
shaken her confidence in the broker, but I dont think this mistake otherwise affected her 
mortgage application. So I do think the payment of £50 that Habito has offered for this, 
makes up for whats gone wrong here.
Miss A had to cover a £46,000 shortfall in lending - Once Miss As lender said it wouldnt 
accept her valuation appeal, the maximum amount she could borrow was reduced. Habito 
discussed alternative lenders with Miss A, but I can see she chose to cover this shortfall 
from her own funds, and go ahead with this lender, as it would be quicker. So I dont think it 
was Habitos fault that Miss A had to find money from elsewhere to cover the shortfall.
Increasing interest rate, but reduced LTV Miss A said it was simply ridiculous that she 
should have to pay a higher interest rate, when all that happened was her LTV was reduced. 
But that wasnt all that happened at this point. Miss A had arranged to make up a sizeable. 
shortfall on the valuation, of £46,000, from her own funds. So she was presumably also 
amending her application so she was borrowing less money. And Miss As lender has told 
our service this would require a revised application, selecting a new rate. At a time when 
interest rates were changing rapidly, I think it must always have been likely that this revised 
application would mean an increased interest rate, even at a lower LTV. 
I know Miss A wanted Habito to discuss this with the lender, and I can see it did so. I dont 
think Habito made a mistake here.
Affordability concerns  Miss A said once she had to make up the shortfall in available 
lending from her own resources, she no longer wanted to pay off a loan she had previously 
said she would clear. Miss A said Habito didnt help her to get the lender to waive a 
requirement to clear this loan, so she had to talk to the lender herself. 
I can see on the lenders notes that Habito spoke to the lender about this condition on 6 
June, and Miss A spoke to the lender on 7 June. The message each got does appear to 
have been the same, that the loan had to be paid off. But I can also see that Habito spoke to 
Miss A on 8 June, saying it would escalate this issue, and get the lender to review this. On 9 
June, the lenders notes show Habito contacted the lender again, and on the same day, 
Habitos notes say that Miss A no longer needed to pay off this loan. 
I dont think this lending condition was only removed because Miss A contacted the lender 
herself. The lenders notes suggest it removed this condition at Habitos request.Summary - I understand that Miss A has found this mortgage application to be a very 
frustrating process, but Ive only been able to identify one mistake made by Habito, which it 
has offered compensation for. I think that does provide a fair outcome to this complaint. I 
cant see that this compensation has yet been paid to Miss A, so Ill require Habito to do that 
now. But Ill allow Habito to count towards the award any payment it has already made for 
this complaint, in case it has paid Miss A already.
I know Miss A will be disappointed, but I dont think Habito has to do more than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Hey Habito Ltd must pay Miss A £50 in compensation. Hey Habito 
Ltd can count towards that amount any payment it has already made for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman