DRN-3809117
The complaint
Miss H and Mr M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the 
claim they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
Act) in relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the 
supplier.
Miss H and Mr M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2015, Miss H and Mr M were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Miss H and Mr M decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss H and Mr Ms behalf under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Miss H and Mr M to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which they could sell to the national grid, 
for an income known as the feed in tariff (FIT);
the FIT and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough income to cover 
the monthly loan payments as they fell due.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that as more than six years had passed 
since the sale, the limitation period had expired, and so Shawbrook declined to investigate 
the claim.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator thought that the claim under section 
140A had been brought in time because Miss Hs and Mr Ms contractual relationship with 
Shawbrook was still subsisting. She considered the allegations of misrepresentation, but she  
did not think that P had misrepresented the system to Miss H and Mr M, and she found no 
reason to uphold the complaint.
Miss H and Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators view, but did not provide any further 
comments. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for 
review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations and time limits
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act, and also the 
Limitation Act 1980.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where it applies, consumers can claim against their creditor for any misrepresentation made 
by a third party supplier in the same way that they could have claimed against that supplier. 
However, since the limitation period for bringing a claim for misrepresentation is six years, 
and Miss H and Mr M raised their claim with Shawbrook later than that, I think that 
Shawbrook was entitled to decline their claim under section 75.
However, I agree with our adjudicator that as Miss H and Mr M were still in an ongoing 
contractual relationship with Shawbrook, the limitation period for a claim under section 140A 
had not yet begun to run. That claim was brought in time. Shawbrook should therefore still 
have investigated their allegations of misrepresentation, and its failure to do so was an error. 
Whether that error means that compensation should be awarded depends, in my view, on 
whether the outcome of the investigation Shawbrook should have carried out would or 
should have resulted in the claim being upheld.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system by P. Section 56 
says that any negotiations between Miss H and Mr M and P, as the supplier, are deemed to 
have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party, or his agent, to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter into the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss H and Mr M say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Miss H and Mr Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Miss H and Mr M, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr M has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Miss H and 
Mr Ms version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Miss H and Mr M have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Miss H and Mr Ms recollections of 
their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss H and Mr M 
could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss H and Mr M could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £420.78. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings 
Miss H and Mr M could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings 
are £203.68 and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Miss H and Mr M, 
the combined income and savings in year one are shown as £910.63. This is shown in a 
table titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of £75.89. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £105.88. As a result, Im not 
able to conclude that Miss H and Mr M were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss H and Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £105.88. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £107.64, but the difference  £1.76  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first six years of the loan, meaning that the system would only begin to 
make enough money to cover the loan payments in year seven.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss H and Mr M could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT 
income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would 
not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought 
about Miss H and Mr Ms version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a 
central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph in the quote, which plainly showed that the system 
would not make enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss H and Mr M that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.76 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr M, 
so Im satisfied that P did bring it to his and Miss Hs attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Miss H and Mr M were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take nine years for the 
overall benefits that Miss H and Mr M could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the nine-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year nine the overall benefits that Miss H and Mr M 
could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,775. The years of 
shortfall are highlighted in red, and the subsequent years in green, so I think it is clear.
This table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £19,375, 
would be reached during year 15. So the system was indeed predicted to pay for the loan 
cost within the loan term.
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced Miss H 
and Mr M to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss as a result, then 
that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of 
the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Miss H and Mr M.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,660 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Miss H and Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 3,053 kWh a year. This is somewhat more than estimated by P at 
the point of sale (114.8%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in 
terms of energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Miss H and Mr M have not seen 
the expected financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other 
cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Miss H and Mr M havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
have been correspondingly lower. (Savings will however begin to increase in line with recent 
increases in energy prices.)
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss H and Mr M could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss H and Mr M entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss H and 
Mr M to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman