DRN-3350417
The complaint
Mr S complains that Black Horse Limited didnt provide him with the service it should have 
when he was experienced financial difficulties due to the pandemic.
What happened
Mr S entered a hire purchase agreement in January 2017 with Black Horse to acquire a car. 
The agreement was repayable over 48 months. In January 2020, Mr S started a new job but 
due to the pandemic he lost this job causing financial difficulties. Mr S contacted Black Horse 
in April 2020 and was given a payment deferral. Over the next eight months Mr S had six 
months of payment deferrals and used his savings. He contacted Black Horse in January 
2021 and was told he could return the car. Mr S says that he should have been given this 
option sooner as he thinks it would have avoided arrears building up on his account and the 
impact on this has had on his credit file. 
Black Horse said that Mr S agreement included details of his right to terminate his 
agreement and so this information was available to him from the start. It said that when Mr S 
contacted it he said his intention was to keep the car and so the options given were based 
around that. It said that Mr S was given the most appropriate options at the time. It also 
noted that Mr S was told about voluntary termination in January 2021 but only said he 
wished to do this in April 2021. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that the agreement included Mr S 
right to voluntary termination and thought Black Horse had acted in line with the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in regard to consumers experiencing financial difficulties 
with their motor agreements due to COVID-19. She noted that Mr S had been provided with 
six months payment deferrals and that when voluntary termination was discussed in 
January 2021 this was because Mr S financial difficulties appeared as though they may no 
longer be temporary. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He thought more should have been done to 
help him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained this decision relates to Mr S complaint that he wasnt told sooner of 
his right to voluntarily terminate his agreement.
I am sorry to hear about the financial difficulties Mr S has experienced since the start of the 
pandemic and I do not underestimate how challenging it must have been for him. With this in 
mind, I have considered the actions Black Horse took when Mr S contacted it about his 
situation and whether these were reasonable.
Mr S has said he should have been told sooner about his option to voluntarily terminate his 
agreement. I note this point but as the details of his right to terminate were set out in his 
agreement, Mr S should have been reasonably aware of this from the outset. When Mr S 
made contact about his situation he didnt ask about terminating his agreement and instead 
asked for assistance due to not being able to make his repayments. Therefore, I think it 
reasonable that Black Horse looked at the options available to him to assist with what 
appeared to be temporary financial difficulties. While I appreciate Mr S comment that had he 
known sooner about the option to terminate his agreement he would have done this to avoid 
the build-up of arrears, I can also see that after the January discussion he didnt then say he 
may proceed with a voluntary termination until April 2021 after having a previous 
conversation about addressing his arrears. Therefore, in this case I do not find I can say 
Black Horse was wrong not to discuss voluntary termination before the discussion in January 
2021 after other options had been taken and Mr S situation wasnt improving.
I have considered the actions Black Horse took prior to January 2021 and I think these were 
reasonable and in line with the FCA guidance. I say this because when Mr S contacted 
Black Horse in April 2020 to say that he wasnt able to make his payment as he wasnt 
working at the time, he was offered a payment deferral. The FCA guidance was published on 
24 April and this set out the expectation that firms provide three months of payment deferrals 
where a consumer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment 
difficulties due to COVID-19. In July 2020, this was extended to allow up to six months of 
payment deferrals. The guidance hadnt come into effect when Mr S called on 20 April, but 
he was offered a payment deferral at that time and was told to get back in touch if he needed 
further assistance. He did so in May 2020, when a further payment deferral was provided, 
and a further months deferral was provided in June 2020. So, Mr S had been provided with 
three months payment deferral which was in line with the April FCA guidance. The July 
guidance extended the recommended payment deferral to six months and I can see over the 
next few months Black Horse continued to offer Mr S support through payment plans and 
payment deferrals. Therefore, I find it did provide a reasonable level of assistance at this 
time.
As our investigator has explained, Mr S should now discuss his options with Black Horse 
and we would expect Black Horse to treat Mr S sympathetically in regard to his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman