DRN-2014090
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms H. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. Ms H 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms H and her representatives have said, but Ive decided not to uphold 
her complaint. I will explain why.
I think Ms H was given a choice about taking PPI:
The form, which Ms H apparently filled out with her personal details, and signed, 
does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by ticking a box. There is a tick 
against the statement:
Yes I want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection Insurance 
(subject to eligibility). Please debit my account with the relevant premium until 
further notice. 
And Ms H has acknowledged she knew she was ticking to apply for PPI (although 
she says she wasnt given proper information about it). 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI, in the sense of saying it would be 
particularly suitable for Ms Hs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Ms H to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Ms H clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Ms H. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. 
Her representatives have said that better information would have resulted in Ms H not taking 
the PPI. But, although I cant be sure, looking at what is most likely to have happened, I dont 
think its likely to have made a significant difference. I say this because its fairly likely that 
the PPI would have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would 
have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also, based on what 
shes told us, she didnt have many alternative means to pay her ongoing living expenses 
and credit account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she did, she could have kept 
that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed 
potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a difference to 
whether or not Ms H took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman