DRN-3423355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold a Select Account (SA) some time before 
2000 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the SA took place some time between when the product was launched in 1997 
and when the first account record is available from Lloyds in 2001.
When the SA was sold it was a single account in Mrs Cs name. Mrs C says that she was 
told she had to open the SA if she wanted to take out a second loan.
Lloyds says it provided information on the SA to Mrs C and recommended it to her based on 
her circumstances at the time, and she chose to take it out.
This sale took place over 20 years ago and I wasnt there so I cant know what was said at 
the time. I can only look at the evidence available today.
Before the SA sale Mrs C had a free account for several years and had taken a loan out 
while she held the free account. So, she knew that free accounts were available, and it was 
possible to borrow money without paying for an account.
Ive considered Mrs Cs testimony very carefully, and I dont doubt her honest recollections. 
But I think its more likely than not that Mrs Cs memory is mistaken, and Lloyds didnt tell her 
she had to open an SA to get a second loan but rather she chose to take it out. I say this for 
the following reasons.
Lending by any financial institution is done based on the credit rating of the borrower and in 
my view, this would have been the primary consideration if and when Mrs C asked for a 
second loan.
Loans without fee-paying accounts were widely advertised and available at the time she 
opened the SA, so if Mrs C hadnt wanted to pay for an account, in my view she would have 
looked elsewhere and found the kind of lending she wanted.
The SA had a wide range of benefits including an interest free overdraft, payment card 
protection, extended warranty, the waiving of a £5 overdraft fee and later car breakdown 
cover, and discounts on loans and savings. This was for a charge of £4 a month.
So, I can see why Mrs C may have been interested in the SA.
She went on later both as an individual, and with Mr C when the account became a joint one, 
to use the car breakdown service and benefit from loan discounts over several years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds gave Mrs C and later Mr C enough information 
about the SA and didnt fail to tell them anything that would have put them off it. 
And in my view, I cant say that the SA was unsuitable for them.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong is the sale of the SA.
I note that Mr and Mrs C have raised other issues during the complaint such as about 
insurance, account charges and financial difficulties. If they wish to pursue these, they 
should take them up with Lloyds first, and then if they are unresolved the complaints could 
be brought to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman