DRN-1413202
The complaint
 Mrs A says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on the phone in 2003 to protect the 
repayments of a secured loan that Mrs A was taking out.
The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check it was suitable for her. And it
had to give her enough clear information so she could make an informed decision whether or
not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.
I say this because Mrs A had a pre-existing medical condition which would not have been
covered by the policy. So it was likely that Mrs A would not have been able to claim on the
policy when she needed to, and when she expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander
considered this, or that it made this clear to Mrs A.
The bank argues that any pre-existing medical condition and the relevant exclusions would 
have been discussed at the point of sale. But it hasnt been able to provide a call recording, 
a sales script or notes from the call to show how the question was presented to Mrs A or 
what discussion took place. The sale took place on the phone so whilst I accept its possible 
Santander referenced the exclusions, I think its most likely this would have amongst a lot of 
other information  and Ive seen no evidence it considered the impact of Mrs As medical 
history on the suitability of the cover for her. 
Given the nature of her condition and the fact it increases the risk of other health problems, I 
think she would have thought she might need to make a related claim. Ive also considered 
the banks point that the policy summary provided information on the exclusions. But I dont 
think this evidences that it clearly highlighted that any pre-existing medical condition would 
be excluded from cover at the time of the sale. Santander asked for documentary evidence 
of the date of Mrs As diagnosis and how it was managed in 2003, but I am not persuaded 
this is needed in the circumstances of this case. I say this based on the nature of her 
condition and the fact her testimony has been consistent that she suffered from it at the time 
of the sale.
Overall, I think its most likely Mrs A wouldnt have taken out the PPI if shed been better
advised and informed.
It follows I think Mrs A has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs A in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mrs A the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the 
value of the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any 
commission already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 My decision is I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must pay compensation to Mrs A
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman