DRN-4312421
The complaint
Ms F complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) 
(Asset Link) have treated her unfairly following its purchase of her loan account from another 
lender.
What happened
Ms F took out a loan in April 2019, from a business I'll refer to as F. The loan purpose was 
for Ms F to support living costs while studying. The repayments were structured so that she 
would pay a reduced payment of £60 per month for the first forty-four months and the full 
payments of around £210 would be payable from month 45  January 2023. 
Sometime after the loan was taken, but before November 2022, Ms F moved home, she 
didnt update her address with F.
In November 2022, Asset Link took over Ms Fs loan account from F and she was sent a 
letter explaining this. In December 2022, Ms Fs direct debit payment was returned, as the 
direct debit was cancelled.
In January 2023 Asset Link also sent Ms F a welcome letter. This letter was returned, as Ms 
F no longer lived at the address, so Asset Link emailed her asking her to get in touch, which 
she did. At the same time, she updated her address, reset her direct debit for payments to 
resume in February 2023 and discussed the arrears on the account, but didnt clear them or 
make any arrangement to do so. 
Ms F said she had previously had an arrangement with F to extend the smaller £60 monthly 
payments, as she had had to extend her studying due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She 
agreed to send Asset Link all evidence she had relating to the agreement so it could 
consider it. She emailed them the following day asking for the payment plan to be extended 
until May 2023.
Asset Link said they would refer the request to management and come back to Ms F. When 
it didnt respond Ms F sent chaser emails, which it also didnt respond to. So, Ms F made a 
complaint to Asset Link, and to this service.
Ms S raised multiple issues that she was unhappy about:
- she wasn't made aware the loan account had been transferred from F
- she hadn't received an annual statement from Asset Link
- Asset Link should have asked her to update her correspondence address which 
could have prevented the issues that followed
- Asset Link hadnt notified her that her direct debit had been cancelled
- she felt Asset Link should provide her with an online way to track her account and the 
payments she makes to it
- Asset Link hadn't responded to her request to extend the payment plan
Asset Link didnt uphold her complaint but did pay her £30 to recognise the delay she 
experienced waiting for an answer to her request to extend the payment plan. Ms F 
remained unhappy and asked this service to look into matters.
Our investigator felt that Ms Fs complaint should be partially upheld. Ive summarised what 
they said below:
- the contract Ms F had entered into with F, had allowed F to transfer the account to a 
third party without the need for any prior warning being given to her. And that both a 
notification of sale letter and a welcome letter was issued to Ms F, as was to be 
expected. But as Ms F hadnt, in line with her obligations under the contract, kept her 
address details up to date, these had been sent to the incorrect address. So, Asset 
Link hadnt done anything wrong in this instance.
- Asset Link had shown it had sent annual statements to Ms F. They could see that 
these had been sent to the address Asset Link held on file, with the latest one being 
sent to Ms Fs new address as it was issued after she had updated it. It would be 
unfair to hold Asset Link responsible for issues with the postal service, but if Ms F still 
hadnt received it, she should contact Asset Link to as it to provide her with another 
copy.
- it was impossible for Asset Link to have been able to predict that Ms F would move 
home, so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to have asked her to update her 
address details in advance of the returned letters.
- Asset Link was not responsible for cancelling the direct debit, it had provided 
evidence to show the cancellation had been made by the payer  in this case Ms F.
- it is not for this service to tell a business to change their policies or procedures and 
as such we cannot ask Asset Link to provide an online way for Ms F to track her 
account.
- Asset Link should have responded sooner to Ms Fs request to extend the payment 
plan. To recognise this, it should pay Ms F £150 for the inconvenience she suffered 
in having to chase for this. 
Asset Link agreed to the investigators findings.
Ms F responded initially saying her only concern was being able to track payments she was 
to make in the future. She later sent another response saying she would accept the matter 
as closed if we asked Asset Link to:
- Provide her with a monthly statement
- Clear all arrears and charges from the account
- Pay £500 in compensation to her
The investigator explained that she wouldnt be asking Asset Link to do those things as she 
didnt believe those to be fair. And we are an impartial service and not a consumer 
champion. Ms F then asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so I have to tell Ms F that Im 
partially upholding her complaint and have reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons, so Im unsure how much I can helpfully add here.
Asset Link accepted the investigator's findings in full. And from reading Ms Fs responses it 
appears she also accepted the findings but disagreed with the redress the investigator 
suggested. And so all thats left for me to decide here is if the redress suggested is fair, 
taking into account what Ms F has requested.
I understand that Ms F would like Asset Link to provide monthly statements on the account, 
but this isnt a process it has in place and its not for me to tell it to change its processes. Ms 
F has said she doesnt feel confident in making overpayments as she is planning to, 
because she has no way of seeing these have been credited to the account. But thats not 
the case, there is an option for Ms F to call or email Asset Link to make sure the payment 
has been received if she wants to make overpayments. So, I dont think Asset Link needs to 
do more than it is already here.
It's accepted by both parties that Asset Link did not respond to Ms F when she requested an 
extension to her repayment plan, and then didnt respond to her chaser emails about the 
same. So, I have to think about the impact that had on Ms F when deciding fair redress.
Ms Fs account was already in arrears before she asked for a repayment plan extension. 
She had missed payments in December 2022 and January 2023, as well as payments 
earlier in the loan. So, I dont think the lack of response from Asset Link caused or 
contributed to the arrears on the account. Therefore, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to ask Asset Link to remove the arrears or charges from Ms Fs account.
Ms F had to go to the trouble of sending chaser emails to Asset Link and was clearly and 
understandably frustrated by its lack of response. However, Ms F continued to make the £60 
monthly payments while she was waiting for the response and so was effectively paying the 
same as the arrangement she was asking for. So, she wasnt out of pocket because of this, 
and as I explained above the account was already in arrears prior to the requests. This 
means the arrears were already being reported to credit reference agencies, as Ms F hadnt 
made all of her contractual payments. 
Given this I think the impact here is the delays she experienced waiting for the response and 
the inconvenience and frustration of having to chase for an answer. Ive considered that 
Asset Link have already paid Ms F £30 for this, and I think a further £150 is a fair reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience caused here.
I realise Ms F will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Asset Link  can do for her. 
Putting things right
On acceptance of this decision, Asset Link should pay Ms F £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, this is in addition to the £30 it already paid to her.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) to carry out the actions set out 
under the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman