DRN-3746728
The complaint
Mr O complains that Vanquis Bank Limited misinformed him about making overpayments on 
his loan.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr O took out a loan with Vanquis and says, that around this time, he had a 
discussion with a Vanquis representative about paying larger monthly repayments. Mr O 
says the representative advised him that this would not result in paying less interest and 
suggested he pay the standard amount.
Mr O says that when he went to pay off the balance, it became clear that he had been 
misadvised and he could have made overpayments, which would have resulted in paying 
less interest.
Vanquis investigated but didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. They said they checked call 
recordings and, in the call they think Mr O is referring to, he asked about setting up 
payments towards the loan and if he was able to increase the loan amount. They explained 
that the agent only provided advice on these queries and there wasnt a discussion about 
overpayments. Vanquis added that information on overpayments was detailed in the terms 
and conditions of the loan.
Mr O complained to our service and our investigator couldnt see that Vanquis had done 
anything wrong.
Mr O remains dissatisfied and believes Vanquis have been dishonest and tampered with the 
call recordings to delete the incorrect advice. So, this case has now been referred to me to 
look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not asking Vanquis to take any further action.
I first looked at the terms and conditions which Mr O agreed when he took out the loan with 
Vanquis. And, I found the following extract clarified Vanquiss position on over payments and 
the impact on the term of the loan:
If you make an early partial repayment, you can choose whether your remaining balance is 
to be repaid within a shorter Term (in which case the monthly payments will stay the same) 
or whether your monthly payments are to be reduced (in which case the original Term will 
stay the same). If you make an early partial repayment, we will assume that you wish the 
Term to remain unaltered unless you request otherwise.
So, although I recognise that Mr O is convinced a call took place in which he was 
misinformed, Im satisfied that Vanquis provided sufficient clarity on overpayments. And, Mr 
O shouldve been aware of this as it was contained within the agreement.
I listened to all the calls that had been traced and couldnt find any evidence of a Vanquis 
error. I also considered Mr Os point about the disparity in call length and his belief that 
Vanquis have acted dishonestly by deleting the part of a call where the misinformation was 
given. However, Im not persuaded that this is the case. This is because the involvement of 
automated phone services makes it difficult to compare call length. Also, all the calls I 
listened to flowed with no obvious gaps. Furthermore, as Vanquis provided clarity on 
overpayments in the agreement it seems an unlikely course of action.
So, although I understand Mr Os frustrations here, I havent seen anything which suggests 
Vanquis have acted unreasonably or unfairly and I dont think they need to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman