DRN-3392420
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage which, until 2019, Mr M held with 
Bank of Scotland plc. Hes unhappy that Halifax recorded late and missed payment markers 
on his credit file. This has caused Mr M difficulties in getting a new mortgage with a 
mainstream lender.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M and Halifax. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr M had two mortgages, one on his home, the other on a property he had been renting out. 
The complaint relates to the mortgage on the rental property, on which Mr M was making the 
monthly payments by standing order. In March 2019, the payment date fell over a bank 
holiday weekend, so Mr Ms paying bank sent the money the next working day. However, 
this meant Halifax received the payment in April rather than March, and recorded a late 
payment marker on Mr Ms credit file. 
In June 2019, Mr M called Halifax to say the sale of the rental property had been delayed, 
and he was struggling to meet the monthly payments until it was sold. The June and July 
payments werent made before the property was sold in August 2019, and these were 
recorded as having been missed on Mr Ms credit file.
In 2021, when Mr M was having difficulty getting a new residential mortgage, he complained 
about the late and missed payment markers on his credit file. Halifax rejected the complaint 
so Mr M brought it to us. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. Mr M 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
The starting point here is that lenders arent just permitted but required to record factually 
accurate information about borrowers payment behaviour with credit reference agencies. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M had been made aware of this before the events giving rise to the 
complaint. The requirement to record payment data with credit reference agencies is 
incorporated into a mortgage contract; in Mr Ms case, that information was documented in 
the mortgage variation he agreed in 2018. 
Against that backdrop, I can only order Halifax to amend or remove a disputed marker if it 
was factually incorrect or, even if factually correct, arose from an error on the Halifaxs part. 
Having looked at the late and missed payment markers Halifax posted on Mr Ms credit file, I 
cant conclude that the above test has been met. Ill explain why.
First of all, even a payment missed by agreement  say, because a payment holiday has 
been agreed  will still be recorded on a borrowers credit file. 
The March 2019 payment was made late, so the entry was factually accurate. It didnt 
happen because of any error on Halifaxs part, because Mr M made the payment by 
standing order; Halifax had no control on when the money would arrive on the mortgage; 
that was entirely a matter for the sending bank. If the date of the bank holiday was going to 
impact on the standing orders activation, it was up to Mr M to amend things with his sending 
bank.
The June and July 2019 payments werent made at all, so those entries were factually 
accurate. As to whether they happened because of an error on Halifaxs part, the relevant 
evidence here is two phone conversations Mr M had with Halifax in June and July 2019 
respectively. Ive listened to them; weve provided Mr M with the call recordings so that he 
can listen to them too.
The recording of the June 2019 call confirms that the payment assistance team placed a 
temporary hold on payment pending an update on the sale. The call recording doesnt 
suggest to me that Halifax expressly reminded Mr M in this call that any non-payment would 
be recorded on his credit file but overall, Im not sure that makes a difference to the 
outcome. 
Mr M could either afford to make the June and July 2019 payments or he couldnt; if he 
could, its reasonable to conclude he would have done so, and Halifax did urge him in the 
June 2019 call to pay what he could. Also, Halifax did remind him in the July 2019 call that 
non-payment was being reported on his credit file. That didnt prompt Mr M to make the July 
payment or try to make up the June payment, suggesting to me that he wasnt in a position 
to do so. Overall, Im not convinced that Mr M would have been able to act differently and 
made the payments if credit file reporting had been mentioned in the June 2019 call.  
In conclusion, I appreciate the difficult situation Mr M is in; but for the reasons Ive set out, 
hes not in that position because of something Halifax did or failed to do. Thats why his 
complaint doesnt succeed, however much he would wish it to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman