DRN-2855522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say that they were misled into buying a holiday club membership. Because 
their purchase was funded by a loan provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
they say that it is liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the same way 
as the seller. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades as Barclays Partner Finance and 
I shall refer to it as BPF.
What happened
In August 2010 Mr and Mrs M bought membership of a holiday club from a seller which Ill 
call C. The purchase was funded with a loan for just under £4,000 provided by BPF and 
arranged by C. 
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs M complained to BPF through a representative. In summary, they 
said that the holiday club membership had been misrepresented to them. The standard of 
accommodation was not what they had been led to believe and availability was very limited. 
The sales tactics used were unfair. The representative said too that C had not been a 
licensed credit intermediary and so the loan agreement was not enforceable. 
BPF said however that the claim had been brought more than six years after the sale and 
had therefore been brought out of time under the Limitation Act 2010. 
The case was referred to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He broadly agreed with BPF that Mr and Mrs Ms claims were likely to be time-
barred under the Limitation Act and that it had therefore not treated them unfairly by 
declining to address those claims. Mr and Mrs M did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where a customer, who 
pays a supplier for goods or services with a loan provided under arrangements between the 
lender and the supplier, has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against that 
supplier, they have a like claim against the lender. Financial limits apply, but I dont need to 
discuss those here.
I am satisfied that section 75 applies in this case. That means that, if Mr and Mrs M have a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against C, they have a like claim against 
BPF. 
The investigator concluded that BPF had not treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly because any 
claim against C would now be out of time under the Limitation Act. 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) cannot generally be brought after six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Different time limits apply for 
certain types of claim, but I am satisfied that six years is the relevant time limit here. Mr and 
Mrs Ms cause of action (assuming what they say about what happened is correct) accrued 
no later than the date on which they signed the contract and made payment  that is, in 
August 2010. But it was not until nearly nine years later that they made a claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative says too that C was not an authorised credit intermediary at 
the time the loan was agreed and that the effect of that is that the loan is not enforceable. 
Even if that is correct, however, BPF is not seeking to enforce the loan; my understanding is 
that it ended in January 2011.  
The investigator considered too whether Mr and Mrs M could bring a claim under sections 
140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act for an order declaring the credit agreement 
unfair to them. Such an order can only be made by a court, but in any event the time limit for 
such a claim generally runs from no later than the date the finance agreement ended. It 
appears here that was in 2011. 
For these reasons, I believe that any claim in court would now be brought outside the 
relevant time limits in the Limitation Act and would be extremely unlikely to succeed. I 
believe it was therefore fair of BPF to decline to look any further into Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman