DRN-4198807
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has refused to refund the money he has lost 
following him falling victim to two scams. 
Mr I is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr I 
throughout my decision 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
Scam 1
In June 2020 Mr I was searching for investment opportunities online when he came across a 
business called INVCENTRE (X). Mr I completed an online data capture form and sent X 
copies of his identification documents as requested. Mr I also sent X a payment for the 
start-up fee from another bank.
X contacted Mr I and persuaded by Xs professional approach Mr I decided to start investing. 
Mr I also downloaded the screensharing application AnyDesk as directed by X so that it 
could help him with his investment. 
Mr I was provided with login details and was able to see his investment on a professional 
looking platform. Payments to this point had been made from another of Mr Is accounts at a 
different bank.
X persuaded Mr I to open accounts with several cryptocurrency exchanges and explained to 
Mr I payments into the investments would have to be made through them. X then helped Mr I 
control these accounts, again by using AnyDesk. 
In October 2020 Mr I was taken ill and required hospital care for several months. He was 
therefore unable to trade.
In May 2021 X contacted Mr I again explaining a new account manager had taken over his 
account. Persuaded again that X was genuine Mr I continued to make payments into 
investments with it.
In July 2021 X advised Mr I to open an account with Revolut as it was easier to make foreign 
payments from. Mr I did as requested and started to make payments into the investment as 
requested by X.
Mr I requested a withdrawal from his investment several times but each time X persuaded 
Mr I that the more he had invested the higher his profits were likely to be.
Mr I then made a large payment into his crypto wallet of more than £50,000. Mr I was able to 
see that X had accessed the account and withdrawn the funds, yet when Mr I asked X to 
return the money X requested even further funds and Mr I realised he had fallen victim to a 
scam.
Scam 2
Part way through the investment with X Mr I decided he wanted to try investing with a 
separate company. He did this as he was unable to make withdrawals from scam 1. 
Around May 2021 Mr I started to invest with a separate business Blue-Print Capital (Y). Y 
had contacted Mr I out of the blue explaining it received his information after he had signed 
up to different cryptocurrency exchanges.
Mr I provided identification documents to Y as he had X previously, and started trading with 
it. Mr I was initially able to see profits in his account with Y but these soon started to fall. 
After several conversations with Y it explained it had made a mistake and credited Mr Is 
account with some funds. 
Mr Is account started making a profit again but soon the balance of the account 
deteriorated. Mr I attempted to close his account with Y but was unable to contact it. Soon 
after Mr I received an email explaining the account had been closed and he realised he had 
fallen victim to a second scam.
Mr I made the following payments from his account with Revolut:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
14 July 2021 Global Dlt Exchange £4,251.31 Debit Card
15 July 2021 Global Dlt Exchange £2,123.08 Debit Card
21 July 2021 Bitnomics £855.00 Debit Card
21 July 2021 Bitnomics £200.00 Debit Card
27 July 2021 Bitnomics £435.00 Debit Card
29 July 2021 Bitnomics £400.00 Debit Card
31 July 2021 Bitnomics £400.00 Debit Card
18 August 2021 Bitnomics £600.00 Debit Card
2 September 2021 Coinbase £180.00 Debit Card
14 September 2021 Kraken Exchange £1,277.94 Debit Card
14 September 2021 Kraken Exchange £195.96 Debit Card
30 November 2021 Bitnomics £2,100.00 Debit Card
Mr I has not able to recover any of the funds he sent to either scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Is complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr I 
disagree so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr I has fallen victim to two cruel scams. The evidence 
provided by both Mr I and Revolut sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is 
whether Revolut should refund the funds Mr I lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr I made
The only method of recovery Revolut has for payments made by card is to request a chargeback. But Revolut was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr I made in 
relation to this scam to the various cryptocurrency exchanges.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr I was dealing with X and Y, which were the businesses that instigated the scams. But Mr 
I didnt make the debit card payments to the scammers directly, he paid separate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. This is important because Revolut was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchants Mr I paid, not another party.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mr Is payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammers  
doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr I paid. As the 
cryptocurrency exchanges provided the requested service to Mr I any chargeback attempt 
would likely fail.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Mr I made?
Mr I has accepted he authorised the payments that were made from his account with 
Revolut, albeit on X and Ys instructions. So, the starting point here is that Mr I is 
responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty 
to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on 
large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments from being made.
Mr Is Revoult account was a new account with no payment history, so Revolut had no 
history of the account to decide what would have been unusual spending for Mr I.
I have looked at the payments Mr I made from his Revolut account. The value of the 
payments were not significantly high, and although there were some smaller payments made 
in the same day on two occasions, they were made to what appear to have been legitimate 
businesses over a five month period, with no complaint from Mr I.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention systems were not 
triggered by any of the payments Mr I made. Therefore, Revolut is not responsible for any of 
Mr Is loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman