DRN-2621251
The complaint
Miss S complains that PSA Finance UK Limited charged her for a car insurance policy that 
she didnt use. PSA Finance says she owes it £955.96.
What happened
In September 2015 Miss S obtained a car using a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA Finance. The agreement included an insurance policy.
Around a year later, Miss S decided to obtain a different car. She settled the existing 
agreement and took out another finance agreement for the new car. This second agreement 
did not include car insurance and Miss S arranged and paid for her own policy.
The first insurance policy continued to run at a cost of £55 each month. PSA Finance 
charged this to Miss Ss first agreement. In January 2017, when the account was three 
months in arrears, PSA Finance sent Miss S a default notice. It sent her a further letter in 
August 2017 to tell her she needed to pay £790.96. The policy was cancelled, and the 
amount PSA Finance says Miss S now owes is £955.96. When Miss S complained, 
PSA Finance offered to reduce the sum outstanding to £764.77.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
PSA Finance had made things clear enough and that the debt had added to Miss Ss stress 
and anxiety. He thought the amount outstanding should be written off, that any adverse 
information on Miss Ss credit file should be removed, and that she should be paid £50 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
PSA Finance didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Its settlement letter explained that the motor insurance premiums would continue to 
debit. 
The insurance policy was paid for by PSA Finance at the start of the agreement and it 
needed evidence to show the policy had been cancelled if Miss S didnt want to continue 
to pay for it.
It didnt know that Miss S was no longer the owner of the original car.
PSA Finance was unaware that Miss S might be suffering from any health or well-being 
issues which would prevent her from dealing with her finances. It could have provided 
specialist help if it had known.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The arrangement under the first agreement completed in September 2015 was a just add 
fuel arrangement. PSA Finance paid for Miss Ss insurance policy for the full term of the 
agreement, and she repaid it though the agreement each month.
When Miss S decided to change cars, PSA Finance sent her a settlement letter for the first 
agreement. This set out that Miss S needed to pay £8,926.48 to settle the account. This 
letter also said:
If as part of a service to you, you pay the cost of your motor insurance premiums to us for 
us to pay your insurer then these costs are not included in the early settlement. You will still 
be required to pay these amounts to us on a monthly basis
This was also set out in the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement.
But Miss S didnt cancel the insurance policy, so PSA Finance continued to charge her £55 
each month. When Miss S didnt pay, her account went into arrears. 
I find the terms and conditions and the settlement letter set out what Miss S needed to do. 
Miss S should have cancelled the insurance policy and she failed to do so. But I have to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. Ive 
considered this very carefully and, having done so, I agree with our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Miss S understood her first hire purchase agreement was settled and that she didnt owe 
any further sums.
I wouldnt expect her to have reasonably realised from the terms and conditions that she 
still needed to pay for the insurance policy until she cancelled it unless this had been 
brought to her attention. And Ive not seen evidence that this is what happened.
The settlement letter told her she would need to continue to pay for the insurance policy. 
But this was one of seven bullet points in the letter. Miss S didnt cancel the policy. This 
leads me to conclude that PSA Finance didnt make it clear enough what she needed to 
do. And I dont think Miss S acted unreasonably in assuming that either PSA Finance 
would cancel the insurance or that it would stop automatically the just add fuel 
agreement ended.
Whilst I accept PSA Finance wouldnt have known whether Miss S had kept her first car, 
Miss S had settled the agreement. I dont think its unreasonable to expect that PSA 
Finance should have contacted Miss S when her account was debited in the first month 
following settlement. If it had checked with her at that point if she still needed the policy, 
this could have been resolved at a much earlier date.
Miss S had no use of the policy after October 2016  so shes being asked to pay for 
something that shes not used or benefitted from.
PSA Finance checked in January 2017 that the insurance policy was still running, and it 
then sent Miss S a default notice. But that notice didnt explain why the account was in 
arrears. It told her she needed to pay £394.15, but it also said that the outstanding 
balance under the agreement was £0.00. The letter also said:
Total payable under the Agreement £2,089.80
Total paid to date £2,520.65
So I think this letter was very unclear about what Miss S owed and why.It sent her a further letter in August 2017 to say that she owed £790.96. There was 
nothing to explain what this debt was for or how it had been arrived at.
Its not clear what Miss S did, if anything when she received these letters. And it may 
have been helpful if shed contacted PSA Finance. But its also not clear what action 
PSA Finance took  other than sending these two letters  to explain to Miss S what had 
happened and what she needed to do to stop the balance increasing. I think it was in a 
position to do this in at least January 2017.
Miss S has told us that she has experienced financial difficulties and that this has 
impacted on her health and well-being. The debt PSA Finance says she owes has added 
to her upset. And shes had to ask a third party to deal with her finances on her behalf. 
PSA Finance wasnt made aware of Miss Ss circumstances and it may well have done 
more to help her had she felt able to share her circumstances with it. But weve made it 
aware of Miss Ss circumstances and it still says she needs to pay it the full amount. This 
is disappointing, particularly as in May 2020 it had offered to reduce the amount owing.
Taking all this into account, and in Miss Ss particular circumstances, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for the debt to be written off and for any adverse information recorded on 
Miss Ss credit file to be removed. The communications about this debt have been upsetting 
for Miss S in her circumstances so I agree with our investigator that she should be 
compensated. I consider £50 to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, PSA Finance UK Limited should:
1. Write off the amount PSA Finance says Miss S owes.
2. End the hire purchase agreement dated 16 September 2015 and close the account.
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file since October 2016.
4. Pay Miss S £50 to compensate her for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman