DRN-2405936
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. The agreement was for £3,400 over 36 months, with monthly repayments of 
£122.92. At the time, the car was nine years old and had done 133,263 miles. 
Mr S was unhappy with the quality of the car and, in September 2020, he complained to 
Close Brothers that there were dashboard warning lights on, there was a knocking sound 
coming from the car, and that he was concerned that the recorded mileage wasnt genuine.
Close Brothers arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer said 
there were faults with the car, but they didnt think these faults were present or developing at 
the time the car was supplied to Mr S. Because of this, Close Brothers didnt uphold the 
complaint and Mr S brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, because of the age of the car and the mileage itd done, it would 
be reasonable to expect the car would have suffered notable wear and tear. And there was a 
greater risk the car would need repair or maintenance sooner than one which wasnt as road 
worn when supplied.
The investigator also said that Mr S had driven the car for around 6,500 miles before he 
reported any issues. So, while she agreed there were faults with the car, she didnt think this 
automatically meant the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Because 
the independent engineer had said the faults werent present or developing when the car 
was supplied, and because Mr S hadnt provided anything to show this wasnt the case; the 
investigator thought the car was of a satisfactorily quality when supplied.
So she didnt think Close Brothers had done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Close Brothers are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by 
what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. But this doesnt apply where its 
established the goods confirmed to contract when they were supplied, for example where 
the fault is the result of wear and tear. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took 
possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
When Mr S took possession of the car in April 2020 it was nine years old and had done 
133,263 miles. Id expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And I 
think any reasonable person would expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the car 
over time.
Its not disputed that Mr S has experienced faults with the car since taking possession of it. 
Hes provided screenshots of a WhatsApp conversation that took place on the day he 
collected the car  he sent a picture of some illuminated dashboard warning lights to 
someone, who told him they related to the ABS and traction control. They also told Mr S to 
take the car back to the dealership as it had a 3-month warranty. 
Mr S has also said that, when the warning lights appeared on the car in August 2020, he 
took it to a garage who provided him with a report that detailed the faults. He then 
complained to Close Brothers about this, asking if he could reject the car.
Ive seen a copy of a diagnostic check done on Mr Ss car on 3 September 2020. This shows 
a component fault on the diesel particulate filter (DPF), a sensor issue with the camshaft and 
that the turbocharger pressure was too low. It also shows a fault with a windscreen wiper 
motor, communication problems with two sensors and a control panel malfunction.
This check also shows the cars engine management system records the car had done 
224,754 km (139,655 miles), but that the actual main odometer reading was 224,506 km 
(139,501 miles). This is discrepancy of 248km (154 miles) and was recorded as implausible 
data received from the control unit.
While this diagnostic check shows there were faults with Mr Ss car in September 2020, it 
doesnt say whether these faults were present or developing at the time the car was supplied 
to him in April 2020.
Because Mr S didnt take the car to a garage until more than four months after taking 
possession of it, and because the faults showing on the diagnostic check dont relate to the 
ABS and traction control; its reasonable for me to conclude that the illuminated warning 
lights Mr S initially had when collecting the car were resolved. So the faults Mr S complained 
to Close Brothers about in September 2020 were new, and not present when he collected 
the car in April 2020. 
Close Brothers arranged for a independent engineer to inspect the car. Given that Mr Ss 
diagnostic check didnt refer to when the faults may have started to occur, I think this was a 
reasonable course of action for Close Brothers to take. Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 10 September 2020. This says 
that, at the time of inspection the vehicle has been on hire for 121- days and has covered 
6478 miles [sic]. The engineer said that the DPF system was showing the car had travelled 
more than 315,000km (over 90,000km more than Mr Ss diagnostic check was showing a 
week earlier) and that the mileage discrepancy was likely caused by the condition of the 
DPF giving an incorrect reading.
The engineer also concluded that the conditions are likely due to the DPF and turbocharger 
reaching the end of its serviceable life {and} therefore the faults would not have been 
developing or present at the point of the finance inception.
Mr S has said hes been able to continue to drive the car since the car was inspected.
All the evidence Ive seen suggests the problems Mr S complained to Close Brothers about 
werent present when he took possession of the car. And, given the age of the car, the 
mileage itd already done when Mr S took possession of it, and the fact hed travelled a 
further 6,500 miles before he reported the faults; Im satisfied the faults were as a result of 
general wear and tear. And the need to have to replace a worn-out wear and tear item 
shouldve been reasonably expected.
Whats more, because the cars engine management system was showing itd travelled over 
90,000km between 3 September and 10 September 2020, and its not disputed that this 
wasnt the case, Im also satisfied its more likely than not that the mileage discrepancy was 
as a result of the DPF fault, and not for any other reason.
Because of this, I dont agree that Close Brothers are responsible for the costs of repairing 
Mr Ss car, nor do I think they should take the car back and unwind the finance agreement. 
Im satisfied that, considering all the relevant circumstances, Mr Ss car was of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Close Brothers 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman