DRN-3140450
The complaint
 Miss B has complained that Nationwide Building Society allowed her to increase her 
overdraft limit beyond what she could afford to maintain when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Miss B complained to Nationwide about her overdraft facility. She said Nationwide had been 
irresponsible to lend to her given her serious financial difficulties at the time. Nationwide 
didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss B was dissatisfied, she referred the complaint to 
our service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Nationwide 
ought to have realised that Miss B was experiencing financial difficulty by April 2015 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Nationwide didnt respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges, and when considering whether a lender acted responsibly in 
providing further lending. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Nationwide acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from April 2015. 
By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss B was no longer operating her account in 
a sustainable manner. 
I say this because Nationwide increased Miss Bs overdraft limit in April 2015, and at this 
time we would expect it to have taken steps to ensure that not only was the new level of 
borrowing appropriate but also that Miss B wasnt struggling with the overdraft she already 
had. As part of that I think nationwide should have taken at least a cursory look at how 
Miss Bs account was operating. If it had done so it would have seen a pattern of significant 
and concerning gambling emerging on Miss Bs account. And this should have indicated to 
Nationwide that Miss Bs use of her overdraft was becoming unsustainable. In these 
circumstances, Nationwide ought to have realised that Miss B was at a significant risk of 
being unable to repay what she already owed. So Nationwide should have stopped providing 
the overdraft on the same terms and treated Miss B with forbearance rather than adding 
even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Miss B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Nationwide didnt treat Miss B fairly and she lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from April 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss 
Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman