DRN-3773554
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC closed its account without sufficient 
notice or any explanation.
What happened
The director of D explains that he applied for an account for another of his companies on 16 
November 2021. That wasnt accepted by Metro Bank and he also received a notice dated 
the same day saying that the account for D would be closed in seven days.
Metro Bank said it hadnt made a mistake and that it wasnt taking any further action about 
the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Metro Bank had decided 
not to provide an account any longer for D. And it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. He said that although the director wanted to complain about not 
being notified about the outcome of the account application that would need to be a new 
complaint especially as it didnt relate to D.
D didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director maintained hed had 
no notice the other application had been declined and found out from a cashier. He said that 
if he hadnt gone into a branch to apply for that account then the account of D wouldnt have 
been closed and so there was a direct connection. He didnt believe the terms and 
conditions covered the unprecedented times of the pandemic and said that he as well as 
others struggled as a result. He thought that most financial businesses were looking to assist 
customers. He wanted to know why this wouldnt have applied for D and just how ruthless 
Metro Bank had been.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only able to consider what happened for D here and thats what Metro Bank has 
responded to in this complaint. 
I agree with D that its account was reviewed because of the account application for a 
company related to the director. But the fact is that it was reviewed, and Metro Bank was 
entitled to do so. It made an assessment of whether it wanted to continue to provide banking 
services for D. And it decided that it didnt. Ive seen that it followed its normal process and I 
wouldnt expect it to detail its criteria or provide further information here. 
D is right to say that the account terms and conditions do refer to Metro Bank seeking to 
reduce the inconvenience of account closure and that it will if it can provide two months 
notice. Here it provided seven days and I know that the director said he only got the letter on 
that seventh day. While I appreciate what D says, having reviewed how Metro Bank made 
that decision, I dont have a reasonable basis to say it made a mistake here or acted outside 
the terms and conditions. I understand that D was able to transfer the remaining funds in its 
account out on 23 November 2021 before closure.
I can understand the points made by the director especially as no explanation was given at 
the time as to what would happen to the bounce back loan held for D and given the general 
circumstances of the pandemic. But for the reasons Ive given Im afraid I wont be requiring 
Metro Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman