DRN-2550097
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have processed 
international cheques which they paid into their current account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T explained that in March 2019 they paid three cheques, totalling $3,600, into 
their Barclays current account. These cheques were processed via collection but                
Mr and Mrs T had expected the cheques to be processed by negotiation. Because of how 
the cheques were processed they have said the funds credited their account later than 
expected. Mr and Mrs T are also unhappy with how Barclays communicated with them 
regarding this matter.  
Barclays looked into their complaint and said the terms and conditions state the cheque 
processing system is subject to security processes. As such, processing a cheque on a 
negotiation basis is not guaranteed. It apologised for how it handled Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint and offered them £100 for the inconvenience it caused. Barclays also paid Mr and 
Mrs T £27.27, representing the amount of interest they would have received if their cheques 
were processed earlier, as if this had been via negotiation. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator said that Barclays had acted reasonably and in line with their security 
procedures. She thought that the compensation Barclays paid was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and felt that a larger compensation amount was due. As the 
investigator wasnt minded to change her view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I understand that Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with how Barclays has 
handled the processing of their cheques. But Im not persuaded to uphold their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I have considered why Mr and Mrs Ts cheques were processed on a collection basis as 
opposed to negotiation basis, and whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in 
respect of this. I think, in these circumstances, that Barclays was entitled to process Mr and 
Mrs Ts cheques on a collection basis, as opposed to negotiation. I say this because, 
Foreign cheques cant be processed through a UK banks clearing system in the same way 
as UK issued cheques. There are two main ways that banks, such as Barclays, can process 
foreign cheques  either via collection or negotiation. 
Payment by negotiation allows the money to be advanced to the payee as the bank 
effectively lends the money in the expectation it will receive payment when the cheque 
clears. The clearing can often take some time and this type of service carries a risk to both 
the consumer and the bank. The payment can be returned as unpaid and the amount 
debited from the account it was paid into. 
Payment by collection means the payee will not receive the money until the receiving bank 
has received confirmation of the cheque clearing, which can take up to six weeks or more. 
Processing cheques via collection can reduce the risk to both the business and consumer of 
cheques being returned unpaid. 
Ive considered the form that was completed by Mr and Mrs T when paying in their cheques 
and I can see that this indicated that theyd requested this was processed on a negotiation 
basis. From what I have been provided with, I dont think that Barclays guaranteed that      
Mr and Mrs Ts cheque would be processed on a negotiation basis.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts account valid at the time they paid 
their cheques in. These say that processing the cheques on a negotiation basis is not 
guaranteed and for security reasons processing may be changed from negotiation to 
collection. Therefore, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs T asked for the cheques to be 
processed via negotiation, they would have been aware this was never guaranteed.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think that it is unreasonable Barclays chose to 
process the cheque by collection. Barclays has explained that the processing of the cheques 
by collection was in line with their internal procedures. After Mr and Mrs T paid in their 
cheques, Barclays subsequently informed them that these would be processed on a 
collection basis. Barclays explained that because it processed the cheques via collection, it 
waited until the funds cleared from the drawer bank before crediting Mr and Mrs T with these 
funds.
Mr and Mrs T may be concerned that they have been disadvantaged by a change in 
exchange rate. Whilst I appreciate that there may have been exchange rate movements over 
the time it took to process the cheques, I cant say that Barclays needs to make any 
payment for this, as I think that theyve acted reasonably in processing the cheques via 
collection and Mr and Mrs T were aware this was an option.
Mr and Mrs T have said they had previously paid international cheques into their account 
and they were processed by negotiation. Barclays have accepted this was the case and has 
subsequently explained that this was a result of previous errors and it attempted to clarify the 
process for Mr and Mrs T. However, I dont think that this means that all future cheques 
would be processed this way. 
Mr and Mrs T have had to contact Barclays on several occasions and visited the branch to 
try and resolve this issue. I agree that Barclays could have been clearer when explaining the 
situation to Mr and Mrs T. In the absence of this, it has caused further confusion and 
inconvenience. Barclays has apologised and acknowledged that it provided incorrect 
information to Mr and Mrs T. 
I have thought about the £100 compensation that Barclays paid to Mr and Mrs T in respect 
of this. In the circumstances of this complaint I feel that the total compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I say this because, while Barclays could have been clearer, Mr and Mrs T had 
access to the terms and conditions which make the position clear. As such, I think the award 
Barclays offers fairly compensates Mr and Mrs T for the degree of inconvenience they 
encountered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman