DRN-2213549
The complaint
Mr B and Ms R complain about the way a claim for stain damage to their furniture was 
handled by Ageas Insurance Limited and its agents.
What happened
Mr B and Ms R bought a furniture care insurance policy when they purchased some new 
furniture. A few years later they made a claim for two small stains, one on the footstall and 
one on the chaise. Ms R said an agent came to remove the stains but used the wrong 
chemicals, causing further damage and spoiling the fabric pile. 
When Ms R complained Ageas sent a second agent who was unable to order any 
replacement material and instead offered a voucher for just over £2000 or a cash settlement 
of £925. But Ms R said her old suite was no longer available and it would cost over £1000 
more to buy three new items to replace it. Ms R said she found it very difficult to get any 
response when trying to sort things out with the insurance company. And shed like Ageas to 
settle the claim in full so she can replace the entire suite as she wasnt responsible for the 
damage caused by Ageas repairers. 
Ageas said its agents had first tried to remove the stains from the footstall and chaise arm 
cover. It then tried to order a new arm cover and footstool cover but the furniture had been 
discontinued and the fabric wasnt available. So it offered to settle the warranty in full, with a 
voucher for £2077.32 to replace all three matching items or a cash settlement where Ms R 
could then keep the damaged items. 
Ageas accepted the attempted repair had left Ms R in a worse position. It increased the cash 
settlement offer to £1246.39 when Ms R said she couldnt find a replacement she liked or 
that was affordable. But Ageas explained it couldnt offer more than she had originally paid, 
and the voucher was for the full value of all three items of furniture including the undamaged 
sofa which wasnt part of the warranty claim. Ageas also apologised for any inconvenience 
caused and paid £50 compensation to Mr B and Ms R. 
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Ageas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He agreed Ageas had been unable to repair the furniture 
and had made things worse while trying to do so. So he looked at what Ageas had done to 
put things right. He felt Ageas had acted within the terms of the policy by attempting to repair 
the damage and then offering to settle the claim with a credit note or cash sum. And by 
offering 100% of the value of all three items, damaged and undamaged, Ageas had offered 
more than our service wouldve normally recommended. 
He accepted that buying the same type of furniture was now more expensive, but he didnt 
think it was fair for Ageas to pay more because of something outside its control. So he felt 
Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably by offering a credit note or cash sum to put things 
right. And he wouldnt uphold the complaint.
 
Mr B and Ms R didnt agree. They expected a like for like replacement and not to be put in a 
more financially difficult position. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service is to see if the business has done anything wrong. And if so what it 
needs to do to put things right. As the details of this complaint are well known to both parties 
and the facts arent in dispute I wont repeat them in full again here. Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision. 
I can see how upsetting this has been for Mr B and Ms R. Ms R says the damage 
progressed from a small syrup stain and watermark to a whole suite of furniture ruined  
through no fault of their own. And she felt under pressure to make a repurchase, so she now 
has additional debt and a suite she doesnt even like and that doesnt serve her family 
requirements as well as the previous suite. 
Ageas says its settled the claim in line with the terms of the insurance policy. So Ive looked 
carefully at the warranty Mr B and Ms R purchased along with their furniture. Under what is 
covered the warranty refers to accidental staining from any substance except mineral oils 
and soot to fabric. 
Section 6 of the policy states that claims will be settled by cleaning, repairing or replacing the 
damaged product. Where its not able to clean, repair or replace the damaged product 
satisfactorily it will issue a credit note for use at the same or similar retailer. 
Once Ageas had exhausted options to repair the damage it moved to offering a settlement 
for the full amount of the original purchase cost of all three items in the suite  even though 
the warranty only strictly covered the two damaged items. 
I realise Ms R is unhappy Ageas deducted a small amount for a previous successful claim, 
but section 6 also notes the value of the credit note will be the amount paid for the damaged 
product less any previous claim costs. 
So Im satisfied Ageas attempted to fulfil its obligation under the warranty by first trying to 
repair the damaged items, then trying to replace the damaged material, and finally by 
offering to settle the claim through a replacement credit note or cash settlement. 
I do appreciate how frustrating this mustve been for Mr B and Ms R. But the furniture was 
about four years old and there was no certainty that Ageas agents wouldve been able to 
remove the stain damage. 
As our investigator explained, our service wouldnt normally expect an insurer to pay out for 
undamaged items, although we dont think its fair for a customer to be left with un-matched 
items either. So wed normally recommend the insurer pay for 100% of the damaged items 
and 50% of the undamaged items to compensate for the loss of match.
In this case, Ageas accepted its agent caused further damage and offered a voucher for the 
full purchase price of all three items, not just the two damaged items. Ageas also offered a 
cash settlement, which wouldve compensated Mr B and Ms R for the stain damage but 
allowed them to retain the original furniture. 
The lower cash settlement is quite normal as it reflects the fact that insurers can usually 
obtain a discount from retailers when they provide replacement vouchers. I know Ms R has found the whole experience very upsetting  especially when the repair 
damage wasnt her fault. She says prices have increased and she couldnt find a suitable 
replacement for the settlement offered. And shes had to add to the new purchase cost 
herself.
But I dont think this means Ageas should offer a higher settlement figure. The warranty 
covers a replacement to the value of the damaged items, it doesnt guard against future 
price rises. So I wouldnt expect Ageas to pay more than the original cost of the damaged 
items. The terms of the policy do clearly limit the cost of replacement to the amount paid for 
the product less any previous claim costs. 
So I think Ageas acted reasonably by trying to first repair the damage, and when it was 
unable to obtain any replacement fabric by offering the full purchase costs of all three items, 
including the undamaged sofa.
Ms R said she felt under pressure from calls and emails to make a new purchase, although 
she says she found it difficult to discuss matters successfully with Ageas. And I understand 
Ageas offered £50 compensation for any trouble or upset caused.
 
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Ms R. But I cant really say Ageas acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. It was unable to repair or replace the damaged items. So Ageas 
offered a voucher or cash settlement instead. And it acknowledged the damage caused by 
its agent by increasing the cash settlement and increasing the voucher to cover the full value 
of all three items in the suite. 
Based on everything Ive seen I think Ageas acted in line with the terms of the insurance 
policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman