DRN-2005805
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) have declined to pay his claim for 
stolen contents under his esure Building and Contents Home Insurance.
What happened
Mr C has suffered two burglaries at his property.  Mr C says the first burglary occurred when 
his son was in the house and that the burglar threatened his son with violence.  Mr C made a 
claim on his contents cover, which esure accepted.  
A few weeks later, Mr C was burgled again. Mr C contacted esure. He told esure that the 
police said the burglar had gained entry using a key stolen during the first burglary. Mr C told 
esure the house had been unoccupied on the day of the second burglary from around 
9.30am until about 9.45pm, except for 15 minutes at about 5pm. Mr C told esure that when 
his son returned to the property at 9.45pm, he noticed that the TV in his bedroom was 
missing. At the time, his son assumed Mr C had moved the TV to another room. But the next 
day Mr C realised the TV was nowhere inside the property and that hed been burgled a 
second time. Mr C also told esure that the burglar had tried to enter the property again a few 
days after the second burglary using the stolen key. 
esure declined Mr Cs claim arising from the second burglary. Mr C complained to esure. He 
felt esure should cover his claim. He was also unhappy because he thought esure had told 
him over the phone it wouldnt cover the claim for the first burglary unless he dropped the 
claim for the second one.
esure responded to Mr Cs complaint. It said it wouldnt pay Mr Cs claim arising from the 
second burglary. It said that because a stolen key had been used to gain access to the 
property, force and violence hadnt been used. It didnt agree that its call handler had 
insinuated that the first claim wouldnt be covered. Instead it felt the call handler had 
explained that if Mr C found his garage door had been damaged during the first burglary, 
esure would need to send someone round to validate the claim.  
Mr C brought the complaint to us.  He felt that esure shouldnt use the force and violence 
exclusion in his policy to decline his claim relating to the second burglary. He said the 
intention of the term was to prevent claims arising from neglect, such as someone leaving a 
window or door open, and so it shouldnt be applied to a burglary where a stolen key had 
been used to gain entry. Mr C wanted esure to honour the insurance contract in the spirit it 
was written by paying his claim.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint about esures refusal to pay his claim arising 
from the second burglary. He didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said the policy clearly 
stated that violence and force would have needed to be used to gain entry to Mr Cs 
property. And that whilst the circumstances of the second burglary meant the force 
requirement had been met, the violence requirement hadnt. Our investigator also pointed 
out that force and violence terms were common exclusions in property insurance policies. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision. Mr 
C felt our investigators view was based on the technical wording of the policy and not the 
spirit of the agreement. He said that at the time of the second burglary, his property was 
secure with all doors and windows shut or locked. Mr C felt that the second burglary met 
both the force and violence conditions because the key used to gain access during the 
second burglary was stolen during the first burglary where violence was used. Mr C asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. 
The complaint was referred to me. I identified that our investigators view had not considered 
Mr Cs complaint about what he felt hed been told by esure over the phone.  So I asked 
another investigator to provide a view on this point. She listened to the call and didnt uphold 
this part of Mr Cs complaint. She felt esure hadnt insinuated it wouldnt cover the first 
burglary claim if Mr C didnt drop the second claim. She felt instead that the call handler was 
only making it clear that a second claim may impact on the information esure would need to 
assess the first claim and she didnt think there was anything wrong with this. Mr C accepted 
this view. I then proceeded to my decision concerning Mr Cs complaint about his declined 
claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this wont be the outcome Mr C was hoping for, but I shall not be upholding Mr 
Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that a burglar entered Mr Cs property during the second burglary using a 
key stolen during the first burglary. It is also not in dispute that there was nobody at home at 
the time of the second burglary.  
I have reviewed the terms of Mr Cs policy documentation. I am satisfied the policy wording 
is clear that when the household are away, esure need only pay a claim for stolen contents if 
force and violence has been used to enter or leave the property.  For example, page 15 of 
Mr Cs policy booklet, under the Your Cover section under the Theft or attempted theft 
sub-heading under What is not covered? says:
We will not pay for any loss or damage to Your Building or Contents .caused while You or 
Your Household are away from the Home unless force and violence is used to enter or leave 
Your Buildings.
I have also considered whether the circumstances of the second burglary meet the definition 
of force and violence. We interpret force as a form of action or energy being applied to 
something - so turning a handle or opening a door would constitute force.  I am satisfied then 
that turning a key to unlock a door meets the definition of force. We interpret violence to be 
where someone has needed to use a level or force over and above what would usually be 
necessary to gain entry to a property  an example of this would be the picking of a lock. So, 
I dont think that using a key to unlock a door is over and above what would usually be 
necessary to gain entry to a property and so doesnt meet the definition of violence. I am 
satisfied then that the burglar using a key to enter Mr Cs property during the second 
burglary meets the definition of force but not violence, so both force and violence were not 
used. 
But Mr C feels that the way the burglar entered his property during the second burglary 
would meet the definition of violence. He thinks this because the key used to gain entry was 
stolen during a previous burglary where violence was used. I am satisfied that  despite the 
stolen key - each burglary was a separate event, with its own set of circumstances. This is 
because the burglaries happened on different days, different items were stolen and the 
burglar gained entry to the property in different ways. Mr C also had to notify esure of each burglary separately. So, regardless of the circumstances of the first burglary and because 
there was no violence actually used during the second burglary, I dont think the definition of 
violence has been met. I think then that esure is entitled determine which exclusions apply to 
the second burglary based on its own circumstances, without reference to the circumstances 
of the first. And, because of the terms of Mr Cs policy and because force and violence 
wasnt used during the second burglary, esure has done nothing wrong in declining Mr Cs 
claim. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate that this isnt the 
outcome Mr C wanted. Mr C has mentioned that he may take legal action against esure. He 
is entitled to do this provided he doesnt accept my decision, because once Mr C accepts it, 
it becomes legally binding on both parties. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and so I dont require esure Insurance Limited to do 
anything further regarding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman