DRN-1654086
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited has rejected his claim after he 
was diagnosed with having a heart attack. 
What happened
On 29 March 2016 Mr W and Mrs W took out a joint life and critical illness policy with LV. 
Unfortunately, after visiting his GP in July 2018 and being sent for further tests, Mr W was 
diagnosed as having had a heart attack. 
In January 2019 Mr W made a claim to LV. LV considered the claim but said it didnt think 
the medical evidence suggested Mr W had suffered a heart attack. 
Mr W was unhappy with this decision so he made a complaint. LV reviewed the complaint 
and sent a final response letter  dated 18 April 2019. It said although Mr W had suffered a 
heart attack it wasnt confirmed whether this had taken place after his policy had begun. So 
without a confirmed date of diagnosis, it said it wasnt able to accept the claim. 
Mr W remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he had 
obtained further medical evidence from his GP and two consultants who said it was likely  
on balance  that his heart attack took place during the summer of 2018. 
LV told this service it felt there wasnt sufficient evidence to confirm when the heart attack 
took place. And even if it did consider the heart attack took place after Mr Ws policy had 
started he hadn't met the definition of a heart attack under the policy. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. She agreed that  on 
balance  Mr Ws heart attack had taken place during his period of cover. But she didnt 
think Mr W had met the policy definition of a heart attack. So, she said she couldnt ask LV to 
accept the claim. 
Mr W disagreed. He said he had made LV aware of the issues he had been facing and the 
time it had taken to get a diagnosis. He also felt the terms and conditions of the policy dont 
sufficiently highlight the burden of proof on the consumer when trying to make a successful 
claim for heart attack and angioplasty. So he felt hes been treated unfairly.
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr W feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In order for me to ask LV to accept this claim, I would need to be satisfied Mr Ws heart 
attack took place  on balance - after his policy began. I also need to be satisfied his heart 
attack meets the definition of a heart attack as per the policy terms and conditions based 
upon the medical evidence that has been provided to LV. 
LV believes there is no objective evidence which confirms when Mr Ws heart attack took 
place. Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied  on balance  Mr Ws heart attack 
occurred whilst he was covered by this policy. His treating consultants have said that in their 
clinical opinion the heart attack took place post 2016. As this is from his treating consultants, 
I find this more persuasive evidence of when the heart attack is more likely to have taken 
place. 
Mr Ws policy says that for a heart attack claim to be accepted it must meet the following 
definition;
Heart attack  of specified severity
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
New characteristic electrocardiographic changes (or findings on a heart scan); and 
The characteristic rise of enzymes or Troponins. 
 
After reviewing the medical evidence, Im not satisfied Mr W meets the above definition. One 
of his treating consultants has confirmed that Mr W didnt have any of the classical 
symptoms of a heart attack. He added there wasnt any evidence of a rise in cardiac 
enzymes or Troponins. This means Mr Ws claim hasnt met the second part of the required 
definition above and therefore isnt of the specified severity. So, I cant reasonably ask LV to 
pay out on this claim here. If Mr W is able to obtain any further evidence that his heart attack 
did meet the above definition, then he can submit this to LV and make a new claim if he 
wishes. 
I note Mr W has mentioned that due to the way the policy is worded he also cannot claim for 
angioplasty. And that the finer details of what is covered can only be found buried in the 
terms and conditions. I understand Mr Ws frustration with the decision LV has made and the 
wording of his policy. But applying specific definitions and conditions such as this is standard 
practice for these types of policies. Its up to LV which definitions of a critical illness it is 
willing to cover through its underwriting. This policy covers a large variety of different 
illnesses, so I dont think it is unreasonable for the specifics of each condition to be 
explained in detail. Unfortunately this means it isnt always possible to do this for every 
single condition in only a few pages. 
So Im not going to ask LV to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman