DRN-3758770
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund all the money he lost as a 
result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows. 
Mr S saw a car for sale on a well-known advertisement website and online marketplace. He 
said he contacted the seller on the number shown on the advertisement website and agreed 
to buy the car for £4,450. When Mr S enquired about seeing the car the seller told him it was 
located in another part of the country due to their work commitments. The seller sent Mr S a 
link to the online marketplace so that payment could be made on the assurance once the 
money had been paid, delivery of the car would be arranged. Mr S proceeded to make a 
faster payment of £4,450 on 10 March 2022 through what he believed to be the online 
marketplace. Mr S thought the payment benefited from the marketplaces buyer protection 
scheme. 
After making the payment, Mr S received a delivery tracking number but when the car didnt 
arrive on the date expected and, when he received no response from the seller, Mr S 
became suspicious.
Mr S reported the matter to Santander on 16 March 2022. Santander tried to recover the 
money from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payment was made), but only £0.04 
was recovered.  
Santander considered the case under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM 
Code). It accepted Mr S had been scammed and reached the decision that both Santander 
and Mr S were liable for the money hed lost. Because of this, Santander refunded 50% of 
the loss  a total of £2,225. 
Unhappy that Santander didnt refund the full amount he had lost, Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Our Investigator thought there was enough going on that Mr S 
ought to have had concerns and that he should have taken further steps before making the 
payment. He thought both Santander and Mr S ought to share equal liability in this case. It 
follows that our Investigator considered Santander had acted fairly in reimbursing Mr S 50% 
of his loss under the CRM Code and didnt think it was required to do anything more.   
Mr S didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, but not limited to, Mr S remains 
unhappy that he has not been reimbursed all the money hes lost, given that the bank didnt 
meet its obligations. Mr S also commented that he didnt think the bank had acted quickly 
enough, from when he reported the scam to when he received correspondence from the 
bank and then subsequently the refund of 50%. 
Our Investigators assessment, having considered Mr Ss further comments, remained 
unchanged. He explained that the bank had provided correspondence dated 31 March 2022, 
in which Santander wrote to Mr S to extend the 15-day investigation period on the case. In 
light of this, our Investigator explained he couldnt find the bank hadnt investigated the claim 
within the timeframes allowed under the CRM Code. He also reiterated that whilst the bank 
failed to provide an effective warning under the CRM Code, this will not automatically mean 
the bank is liable for the entire loss. He confirmed that in this case, he was satisfied 
Santander had fairly established an exception to full reimbursement applied here and that he 
considered both parties responsible for the loss. 
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Santander is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one Mr S has fallen 
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. In this 
case, Santander has refunded 50% of Mr Ss loss, accepting that it could have intervened 
when Mr S made the payment. So it recognised, under the provisions of the CRM Code, it 
should bear some responsibility for Mr Ss loss. As Santander has provided a partial refund 
to reflect this - there is no need for me to consider this point further. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that*: 
- the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
In considering these points, account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. So, Ive 
considered what steps Mr S took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the individual 
selling the car and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment. Having 
done so, I am not persuaded Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and the 
person or business he transacted with was legitimate. I will now explain why: 
- Ive reviewed recognised industry trade guides, that provide average vehicle sale 
prices based on make, model, vehicle age and mileage. And based on what Ive 
seen, it suggests the market value for this car in this condition ranged between 
£9,000 and £10,200. With this in mind, given that the car Mr S was trying to buy was 
advertised at £4,450, I think the price of the car was too good to be true. Mr S has 
said he was looking for a car for a while and most cars of this make and model were 
listed for around £6,500 and £7,000 - so he believed he was getting a good price and 
that the seller wanted a quick sale. While Ive taken what Mr S has told us into 
account, even considering the lower prices he had quoted, I still find the price Mr S 
agreed to pay for the car of £4,450 ought to have raised concerns and caused him to 
proceed more cautiously. 
- Im also mindful that when Mr S was in contact with the seller, he enquired about 
negotiating on the price. Mr S says the price he agreed for the car was the price it 
was originally advertised for (£4,450) but that the seller said for a quick sale theyd let 
the car go at that price but would deliver the car at their own cost. Given the distance 
between where the car was said to be at the time and Mr Ss location, I think this 
ought to have been a red flag to him. This is because, I dont think it is typically usual 
behaviour for sellers to arrange delivery of vehicles at their own cost  as to do so, 
would further reduce the amount the seller was to receive for the vehicle. This would 
then mean that what was being paid for the car was then in fact less than the £4,450 
agree, which further adds to the price being too good to be true and one that ought to 
have raised concerns. 
- In the email communication the fraudster sent to Mr S I can see they referred to the 
online marketplace buyer protection scheme and told Mr S that if at any time there 
were any issues then the marketplace would refund him in full. When considering this 
information with the point above, I think this ought to have been a flag to Mr S. Here 
we have a seller that was arranging the delivery of the car at his own cost, who 
seemingly was also prepared to incur further delivery costs at the risk that if anything 
happened the car would need to be returned. I note Mr S asked the seller to send 
him a virtual tour of the car, the inside and outside for him to have a look at. Yet in 
the reply from the seller they made no mention of the video request. I think this ought 
to have raised concern with Mr S given that if there was a problem found with the car 
the seller wouldve incurred further costs to deliver it back to themselves. 
- Mr S has provided us with a copy of the messages he believed hed received from 
the online marketplace. Within the information provided, I note in one of the 
screenshots given to us, Mr S was told not to disclose information relating to the 
purchase agreement to any third parties (i.e., 1. the seller, 2. Bank, 3. any 
unauthorised person). It said to not disclose to his bank the actual reason the bank 
transfer is to be sent to the assigned online marketplace account. I think this ought to 
have caused Mr S concern. I find it unusual behaviour for a customer to be told to be 
dishonest with their bank should they be asked about a payment they are making. 
And the fact Mr S was advised to do so, I think fairly and reasonably ought to have 
prompted him to proceeded with more caution. 
- Further, whilst I accept that people can and do arrange to sell items at a discount for 
a quick sale, I think there were things about the situation that in the cold light of day 
did not add up. I consider that Mr S ought to have had greater concerns about the 
legitimacy of the seller and car and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree 
of checking on Mr Ss part. - For completeness, Im aware Mr S has commented on the persuasiveness of the 
information he received relating to the delivery of the car. In particular, he says he 
was provided with a tracking link which took him to a tracking page. He highlighted 
that on the tracking page that was sent to him, there was a link at the bottom which 
took him to a government page about the delivery company  which he says is a real 
company. Mr S adds that this managed to convince him this was a real purchase. Id 
like to assure Mr S that I dont discount his comments about this aspect, but simply 
that this information didnt have a bearing at the time he made the payment. This 
information was received by Mr S after hed made the payment to the fraudster. So 
whilst I might accept this might have been a persuasive factor to Mr S after hed 
made the payment, I cant make the finding that this had a bearing on his basis for 
belief at the time he sent the £4,450. It follows that this point doesnt change my 
conclusions. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr S from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr S ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect himself. Buying a car unseen, at a considerable discount was always a risk. I 
think Mr S should have done more than he did to question the deal and to satisfy himself that 
it was legitimate before making the payment.
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr S 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the goods hed been offered and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ss part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the goods were 
genuine. I therefore consider, in line with the provisions of the CRM Code, liability should be 
shared equally between Santander and Mr S.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss comments in relation to the bank not acting quickly 
enough and that had it acted more quickly, he feels more of his money wouldve been 
recovered. For the reasons our Investigator has already explained, based on what Ive seen, 
I find Santander investigated Mr Ss claim within the timeframes allowed under the CRM 
Code. In any event, even if I reached the finding that it hadnt done so (which I havent here), 
this would not automatically mean Santander was liable to reimburse Mr S all the money 
hed lost. 
Ive also considered whether Santander did all it could to try and recover the money Mr S 
lost, once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Santander did 
contact the receiving bank (where the funds were sent to) when he raised the matter, but 
unfortunately only £0.04 remained and was recovered. It follows, that I think Santander has 
done what could reasonably have been expected of it to try to recover the money.
Its very unfortunate that Mr S has lost this money in this way, and I dont underestimate his 
strength of feeling about what has happened. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably say Santander should reimburse all the money hes lost to the scam for 
the reasons Ive said above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman