DRN-4131008
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) mismanaged his personal 
pension, causing him a loss. 
What happened
In 2010, Mr M became a member of his employers group personal pension with Scottish 
Widows. And, in February 2023, after receiving his annual statement, Mr M complained to it 
about the drop in value. He said hed like to be put back in the position he was in, with the 
option to move his funds elsewhere.
Scottish Widows sent Mr M its final response letter. It said, in summary, that while Mr Ms 
funds havent performed as he expected, investment values can go through periods of 
movement, including sudden short-term changes. It said that social, economic and political 
events have caused sharp declines. And it invited Mr M to contact it to discuss his options. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our Service. He added that his plan has been mismanaged as 
the value dropped by 13%  around £11,000  in his January 2023 statement, when hes 
only a few years from retirement. He said that Covid-19 and the war in Ukraine arent 
plausible reasons, as safeguarding measures should have been in place and that Scottish 
Widows didnt tell him his fund was in trouble. Mr M said that if it had he may have looked at 
alternatives. He also said this has added to his lack of confidence in the plan, which was set 
up by a previous employer and with hindsight hed have invested differently. 
One of our Investigators looked into it and said Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for 
the sale of Mr Ms pension or for giving him advice. She said it followed the investment 
approach agreed when this was set up and that it wasnt responsible for the fall in value. And 
that it had suggested he seek advice if he wasnt happy with his investments.
 
Mr M didnt agree. He added, in summary, that he doesnt understand why his plan is failing 
when it isnt invested in high-risk investments. Mr M said he expected to be kept informed of 
how it was performing and warned of anything that might impact on this. And that Scottish 
Widows didnt tell him that his plan could incur such losses in such a short period of time. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr M hoped for, Im not upholding his 
complaint for largely the same reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr M was enrolled in his employers workplace pension plan with Scottish Widows and it 
doesnt seem to be in dispute that a lifestyle strategy was in place for this, targeting taking 
an annuity at retirement. I think Mr M is likely to have been provided with information at the 
time explaining how the strategy worked. And Mr Ms 2022 and 2023 statements reminded 
him that his plan may include lifestyling and that he could contact it if he wanted more 
information about this. 
Lifestyle strategies usually seek to manage investment risks as someones selected 
retirement age (SRA) approaches, by gradually and automatically making certain fund 
changes which involve moving investments out of equity type investments and into fixed 
interest investments, such as gilts and bonds. These usually exhibit lower volatility than 
equity assets over the long term. And gilts and annuity rates tend to move in opposite 
directions such that when interest rates increase, the value of long gilts go down and annuity 
rates go up. So the aim is that the level of retirement income is less likely to dramatically 
change if these move up or down in the run up to retirement.
I havent seen anything to suggest Scottish Widows provided Mr M with any advice, which 
means it was responsible for administering his pension and ensuring it followed the selected 
lifestyle strategy. And its for Mr M to monitor the performance of his investments and ensure 
these are suitable for his circumstances. For example, by reviewing his statements and fund 
information, as well as seeking financial advice on this if needed.  
I can see from Mr Ms January 2023 statement that his plan was being invested in line with 
what Scottish Widows guide, thats available online, set out that it should be at that point in 
the run up to his SRA of 65, seemingly with the aim of being mostly invested in the Pension 
protector fund (PPF)  which largely invests in long gilts  by then. I cant see anything to 
suggest Mr M provided Scottish Widows with alternative investment instructions. So I think it 
correctly followed the strategy set out in Mr Ms case.
Mr Ms understandably disappointed his plan value dropped when its largely made up of 
fixed interest investments. But, while lifestyle strategies usually seek to manage investment 
risks, these dont eliminate risk. In certain situations this type of investment can still sharply 
fall in value. This was the case here, as I can see Mr Ms investment in the PPF in particular 
fell sharply in value in late 2022. Scottish Widows has explained this was a result of the 
market conditions though. This isnt something it could control and was due to unforeseeable 
global events. And the underlying funds appear to have achieved similar returns to the 
benchmarks they track, indicating this performed in line with comparable funds.  
Scottish Widows made Mr M reasonably aware of the risks involved, as it explained in his 
statements that the amounts shown arent guaranteed, his income at retirement could be 
higher or lower and it couldnt promise that the projected pension was what hed receive. It 
said under How your plan invests that the value of Mr Ms investments could go down as 
well as up and fall below the amounts paid in. And it told Mr M to check he was happy with 
his investments, recommending he seek advice if he was unsure if he should take action.
In summary, Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for ensuring Mr Ms funds were appropriate 
for him. And I havent seen anything to suggest Scottish Widows mismanaged his plan, as    
I think it followed the investment strategy. This means Im not asking Scottish Widows to do 
anything, as I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Scottish Widows Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman