DRN-1580964
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (AIL) has cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. And he said theyd been rude and discriminated against him.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr L took out a motor insurance policy with AIL through a broker Ill call O. 
The details he gave to take out the policy included his address, accident claim history and 
estimated annual mileage.
In July 2019, following a claim made about an incident in May 2019, AIL asked Mr L to 
provide confirmation about some of his details. They said they needed the information as the 
accident claim had identified some of the details Mr L had told them at the time he took out 
his policy were different. This included details about Mr Ls address, accident claim history 
and annual mileage.
Mr L said there hadnt been an incident in May 2019 and wanted more details about it. He 
didnt provide the information AIL had asked him for. But said hed updated his details, in 
June 2019 with O. Mr L said hed had no problems in over 40 years of having motor 
insurance and that AIL had been rude and discriminatory.
In August and September 2019, AIL again explained the information hed given to them at 
the start of his policy differed to information they now had. And that they needed him to 
update his details. They gave Mr L seven days notice of his policy being cancelled if he 
didnt respond with the required information. AIL said Mr L didnt respond and so they 
cancelled his policy with them.
Mr L wasnt happy about the way AIL had treated him and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that AIL had acted fairly and reasonably in seeking the information they 
needed. And she hadnt seen any evidence that AIL had been rude or had discriminated 
against Mr L. But she told Mr L that AIL, during the investigation, had noticed that he should 
have been refunded an unused portion of his policy. And that they had now corrected this 
and sent the refund to him.
Mr L didnt agree, he said hed updated his details in June 2019 and so his policy shouldnt 
have been cancelled. And again, reiterated AIL had been rude and discriminatory. He asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.Cancellation of a policyholders motor insurance can have serious implications as the 
policyholder will need to tell his future insurer that theyd had a policy cancelled. This could 
have a financial impact or trouble in getting insurance. And its also illegal not to have motor 
insurance unless the vehicle has a statutory off-road notification (SORN). 
Insurers may cancel a policy for various reasons, and the policies terms and conditions 
should give the reasons why this may happen. So, I need to determine whether AIL has 
acted fairly and reasonably in their action with Mr L and in deciding to cancel his motor 
insurance policy.
In their terms and conditions, it says:
You must tell us straightaway if anything changes to the information you provided as per the 
statement of insurance.
And goes on to say that failure to do so could result in, amongst others, increased premiums 
or the cancellation of the policy. The terms and conditions give a list (non exhaustive) of the 
things that the policyholder needs to report. This list includes change of address, being 
involved in an accident and a change in estimated annual mileage.
In May 2019 a claim was made to AIL against Mr Ls policy. On checking Mr Ls policy AIL 
identified differences with the address they held, Mr Ls mileage was showing above the 
estimated annual mileage agreed at the start of his claim. And they could see there had 
been a previous accident report which Mr L hadnt told them about when he took out the 
policy.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration as he said he wasnt aware of an accident in May 2019 
and wanted to know more about it. But when AIL asked him for the information in July 2019, 
they didnt ask him for any details about that incident. They asked for details about the 
ownership of his car, his address, his mileage, a previous undeclared accident from 2017, 
and his no claim bonus entitlement. 
I know Mr L thinks the letter was intrusive and rude, but Ive not seen anything to support 
this. Im satisfied AIL asked for the information in a standard format. And I think AIL were 
clear what information they needed and why they needed it. Mr L was also given details of 
when he needed to reply by and told what could happen if he didnt reply. I know Mr L found 
this upsetting. But Id expect AIL to make sure Mr L was fully aware of what could happen if 
he didnt reply with the information they needed to validate his policy.
I think the main confusion here was that Mr L was dealing with his broker, O and his 
insurer, AIL. I can see that in June 2019, Mr L told O that hed changed his address. But I 
havent seen any evidence to show Mr L gave any of the other details either to O or AIL 
that hed been asked about  his accident claim history or his mileage.
AIL asked Mr L for this information again in August and September 2019. And explained the 
impact on his policy if he didnt supply it. I know Mr L would argue he wasnt given the 
information hed asked for about the accident claim. But I think AIL was clear the information 
needed was about validating his policy and not about liability for an accident. And that this 
was in accordance with his policy obligations as I outlined above.
AIL has said if Mr L had given them the up to date information it probably would have only 
 meant an increase in his policy premiums. But because he didnt supply the information AIL 
said they had no option but to cancel his policy. And I think Mr L made the choice not to 
reply, even though he knew what could happen by his not doing so. So, I cant say AIL has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling Mr Ls policy with them.Ive also looked to see that Mr L was given adequate notification of the action AIL had 
decided to take. And I can see AIL gave Mr L seven days notification of this happening. 
Which is what Id have expected them to do.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman