DRN-3780510
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
has failed to treat him fairly when dealing with his request to put his pension savings into 
payment.
What happened
Mr P has been assisted in making this complaint by his financial advisor. But in this decision, 
for ease, I will generally refer to all communications as having been with, and from, Mr P 
himself.
Mr P holds pension savings with Royal London. Those pension savings benefit from the 
application of a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) meaning that the annuity Mr P is entitled to 
receive is likely to be higher than that available on the open market.
In late 2020 Mr P started to research taking his pension benefits and asked Royal London 
for details of the annuity that he could purchase. Royal London provided Mr P with some 
quotations that he agreed to accept. But Royal London then told Mr P that he would need to 
discuss his proposed annuity with its annuity bureau. 
It appears that process has been problematic and resulted in a number of quotations being 
supplied to Mr P that do not meet those he says he requested. And, as a result, Mr P has not 
yet put his annuity into payment. He complains that delay is entirely as a result of Royal 
Londons inflexible processes, and that he hasnt been allowed to conduct matters in witing. 
He says that Royal London should backdate the start of his annuity, when it is eventually 
finalised, to when he first requested the quotations.
Royal London didnt agree with Mr Ps complaint  it said that the process for taking an 
annuity was important and was applied equally to all its customers. But, shortly after Mr P 
brought his complaint to us, Royal London identified that it had failed to send some 
quotations to Mr P between February and May 2021. So it offered to pay him £500 as 
compensation for the net annuity payments he might have missed out on. Mr P didnt accept 
that offer and asked us to continue investigating his complaint.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He was satisfied that the 
process that Royal London asked Mr P to follow when requesting his annuity was 
reasonable and in line with the relevant regulations. And he thought that the offer Royal 
London had made for the delay in issuing the quotations in early 2021 was fair. So he didnt 
think Royal London needed to do anything else in order to put things right.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it would be helpful to first set out some background of my understanding of how 
Royal London provides the guaranteed annuities that form part of the pension plans held by 
some of its customers. Royal London no longer offers annuities directly to consumers. So 
the annuities that need to be provided, using the GARs, are sourced from the open market. 
In order to do that, Royal London first needs to establish the terms on which its consumer 
wishes to take the annuity, taking into account things such as escalation rates, survivor 
benefits, and guarantee periods. It then needs to establish the best rates available on the 
open market for an annuity of that type. And then it needs to supplement the pension 
savings of the consumer to allow an annuity to be purchased to provide the income 
guaranteed by the GAR.
So, in order to complete those steps in its process, Royal London utilises what it called its 
annuity bureau. That team would discuss the annuity options with consumers, would then 
source competitive quotations on the open market, and would then arrange for a consumers 
pension savings to be supplemented, so the pension they ultimately purchased provided the 
same income as indicated by the GAR. And Royal London chooses to operate the majority 
of its interaction with its customers via a series of telephone calls.
I dont think it is appropriate for me to direct Royal London how it should conduct its 
operations. That is largely a matter for Royal London, potentially with some direction from its 
regulator, the FCA. But, where it is made aware of any additional needs of consumers 
I would expect Royal London to adapt its processes to enable all consumers to be treated 
fairly.
Mr Ps financial advisor has made us aware why, at times, Mr P might have found it difficult 
to engage fully with Royal Londons normal processes. But, for entirely understandable 
reasons, that wasnt something that he shared with the business. I make no criticism of Mr P 
in that regard. But for similar reasons I cannot expect Royal London to make adjustments to 
its process to accommodate difficulties that it is unaware of.
Ive listened carefully to the phone conversations that took place between Mr P and 
Royal London when he was discussing the form that he might want his annuity to take. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels that information had already been provided to Royal London in 
written form at the outset of his retirement planning. But I dont think Royal London did 
anything on those calls to undermine those earlier instructions. Instead I think Royal London 
quite reasonably explained the choices that were open to Mr P to ensure that he had a full 
understanding of his decisions, and to seek his guidance on the quotations it should provide.It seems clear to me, with the benefit of hindsight and Mr Ps commentary about his 
complaint, that Royal London introduced a degree of confusion into his thinking and 
requests. It appears that Mr P had been given directions by his financial advisor about the 
annuity options he might choose. But Mr P then asked Royal London for different quotations 
following its explanation of the various options. I dont think that suggests that Royal London 
did anything wrong, but I think it does explain why some of the quotations that were sent to 
Mr P differed from those his financial advisor was expecting.
I understand why Mr Ps financial advisor feels strongly that it should be him that advises his 
client about which annuity to select. But I dont think that Royal London has unduly interfered 
with that process. Its annuity bureau isnt designed to direct Mr P to an alternative provider 
instead of taking the GAR that he is entitled to receive. Instead the bureau seeks the best 
value annuity provider to minimise the additional funds that Royal London would need to 
provide to enable the GAR income rates to be met.
Mr Ps financial advisor told him that the GAR offered by Royal London was unlikely to be 
beaten on the open market. I think that conclusion is shared by Royal London. And the 
financial advisor was able to recommend to Mr P the form of the annuity he should take. 
Again that isnt something that Royal London provided any advice on  although as Ive 
explained above I accept that the additional explanations and information it provided might 
have caused Mr P to reconsider some of the financial advisors advice.
I understand that Mr P has still not taken his annuity from Royal London. His 
financial advisor has recently told us that Royal London has now changed its approach and 
that it is leaving the decision about the annuity provider with the financial advisor. But Ive 
discussed that matter with Royal London and Im sorry to tell Mr P that his understanding of 
the recent letter is incorrect. Of course he remains free to take an annuity from any provider. 
But, in order to benefit from the GAR attached to his pension plan, he will need to make his 
choice through Royal Londons annuity bureau. I would suggest that, if he continues to be 
concerned about that process, Mr Ps financial advisor might want to join his client on those 
calls to ensure that Royal London, and Mr P, have a shared understanding of the advice that 
he is providing.
Royal London has accepted that it was at fault for not sending some of the quotations to 
Mr P between February and May last year. On balance, given what has happened since, Im 
not persuaded that failure has caused much impact on the set up of Mr Ps pension benefits. 
But I think it is reasonable that Royal London acknowledges that error and provides some 
compensation to Mr P for the inconvenience the delay might have caused to him. I think that 
the £500 that Royal London has already offered to Mr P is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P. But I think that Royal London 
should be entitled to set the terms on which it operates its business. Whilst I would expect 
Royal London to make reasonable adjustments to that process, I havent seen anything that 
makes me think it was aware, or should have been aware, that any adjustments were 
necessary.Putting things right
Royal London has accepted that it failed to issue the requested quotations to Mr P between 
February and March 2021. Royal London should pay Mr P the £500 in compensation it has 
already offered for the inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to put things right in line with what it has already offered and as 
detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman