DRN-3570924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of their 
buildings insurance claim.
All references to Lloyds also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on events following Lloyds final response in October 2020 up to its 
final response letter to Mr and Mrs G in March 2022. Any reference to events outside of 
these dates is for contextual purposes only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate the experience and issues Mr and Mrs G have described. The total time 
the claim has been outstanding and delays that have occurred that were not of their 
making must be very frustrating for them. But its not unusual for claims of this nature 
to take some time to be resolved. So, this means I wont be holding Lloyds 
responsible for delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable. 
A significant delay to the claims progress, which Im aware was still ongoing at the 
time of the final response in March 2022, is the difficulties Lloyds have had regarding 
shipment of materials.  The reasons given for this are issues that are industry wide 
and have had an impact on other claims too. I appreciate why Mr and Mrs G would 
be frustrated by this, but I dont consider this to be something that was avoidable for 
Lloyds. 
However, I can see there have been issues throughout the claim where there has 
been poor communication and some avoidable delays in progressing the claim. 
Lloyds own contact notes reference contacting Mr and Mrs G with regular updates, 
and this doesnt appear to have happened as consistently as set out.  I also note 
there were issues with a scope of work being produced  and this had to be 
produced again when contractors changed. And in addition, Mr and Mrs G had 
further issues with water ingress during this time, so I can see why this only added to 
their frustration.
Lloyds acknowledged it could have provided better service to Mr and Mrs G. Across 
three final responses in July 2021, October 2021 and March 2022 it has offered 
Mr and Mrs G a total of £1,050 compensation.  
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs thoughts on the level of compensation they have 
been offered. Its clear from what theyve said that Lloydss handling of the claim, and 
avoidable delays in its progress, has caused them substantial frustration and 
inconvenience.  
However, considering everything Ive set out above, I do think the compensation 
offered by Lloyds, across its final responses from July 2021 to March 2022, 
adequately reflects the trouble and upset theyve been caused by Lloyds, within that 
timeframe. So, I am not therefore directing that Lloyds increase this amount.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman