DRN-3363680
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined his drawdown request on his 
cash reserve facility attached to his lifetime mortgage.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr S applied for a lifetime mortgage through a broker who Ill refer to as A. 
Information and advice regarding the mortgage were given by A. Mr S was advised to 
borrow £38,189 from Aviva. A reserve facility up to £108,000 was also arranged for Mr S to 
access in the future if he needed to. 
Later that year Mr S contacted Aviva to access the reserve funds. In mid-July he borrowed 
£20,000 and in Mid-October he borrowed a further £18,000.
In December 2021 Mr S approached Aviva again to borrow a further £20,000. Before Aviva 
could agree the funds, it asked Mr S to provide more information to evidence the need for 
the further borrowing and how the previous drawdown funds had been spent. 
Upon review of the application in its entirety, Aviva refused the drawdown. It had concerns 
about the frequency of the drawdowns, their purpose and how the previous funds were 
spent. As such, it wasnt prepared to lend more. Mr S wasnt happy and raised a complaint 
about this. He explains that Avivas lending decision is impacting him financially as hes 
having to support his family from his own funds which is difficult as a pensioner.  
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said that as a responsible lender it had a duty to carry 
out due diligence and wasnt prepared to change its lending decision.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that based on the information 
available to Aviva, he couldnt say that it acted unreasonably by refusing the further 
drawdown. Mr S remained unhappy and asked for his case to be decided by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepted this mortgage offer on the basis that Aviva had agreed to make the cash 
reserve funds available to him at any time. Mr S made Aviva aware from the outset that he 
would likely be making future drawdowns. Aviva didnt present any objections at the time. 
So, I can see why Mr S believed these funds would be readily available to him when he 
needed access. 
But the terms and conditions give discretion to Aviva as to its approval of any future 
drawdowns. Avivas terms say that it may refuse lending in situations where it has concerns 
about financial crime or the borrowers health or wellbeing. What I must consider is whether 
Aviva has applied its terms fairly in the circumstances. 
When Mr S initially applied for the lifetime mortgage in early 2021, the main purpose was to 
gift a lump sum of £36,000 to his son. The remainder of the loan was used to fund a lasting 
power of attorney fee and loan set up costs. 
Mr S made two further drawdowns totalling £38,000 within the first six months of receiving 
his initial loan. On both occasions he told Aviva the funds were mainly to help his son who 
was unemployed and experiencing financial difficulty. 
Mr S approached Aviva soon after for a third time to request a further £20,000 to help his 
son and daughter in law. On this occasion, Aviva didnt immediately approve the funds. It 
had concerns about the frequency of the borrowing and the repeated purpose. So, it asked 
Mr S for more information to evidence the use of the previous funds.
Lifetime mortgages are intended to be long-term products which are meant to run for
the lifetime of the borrower. No monthly repayments are required, Instead, interest rolls up 
over the term of the loan, which is repayable on the death of the last surviving borrower, or if 
the last surviving borrower moves into care. 
Aviva could have agreed to ongoing drawdowns up to the maximum amount (subject to 
criteria). Interest would accrue on the total amount owed and the full loan would be 
repayable as set out above. But I would expect Aviva to take necessary steps to ensure its 
making responsible lending decisions when considering the individual circumstances of each 
application/drawdown request.
In this case, Aviva had concerns about the nature of Mr Ss drawdown requests. I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Aviva to request more information to support the recent request. I 
say this because in the space of nine months Mr S had asked to borrow over £96,000, most 
of which he says was to help support his son and his family. Aviva has a duty to consider its 
customers best interests. That is a large amount, so I can see why Aviva wanted to ensure 
lending Mr S more money to gift to his family was in his best interests. 
Upon review of the bank statements provided, it appears Mr S was making frequent ad hoc 
transfers to his son and daughter in law. In less than six months he had transferred over 
£55,000 to them in total. From the statements provided, Aviva wasnt satisfied there was 
enough to evidence these funds were intended for essential spending. There were minimal 
direct debits set up for utilities from the recipients accounts. Most of the funds were being 
used for non-essential spending and frequent cash machine withdrawals. As such, based on 
what Aviva knew about how previous funds were spent, it didnt think it was responsible to 
allow Mr S to borrow further funds (secured against his property), to fund third-party 
spending of this nature. When considering everything I think that was a fair concern. 
Mr S reassured Aviva that he wasnt being coerced into borrowing more funds. I can 
appreciate his good intentions by wanting to help his family. But based on everything Aviva 
knew about Mr Ss circumstances, I think it fairly demonstrated that It was making a 
responsible lending decision not to release further funds in the circumstances.
Aviva has also taken steps to ensure Mr S and his family are appropriately signposted for 
financial help in their circumstances and it has agreed to reduce the minimum drawdown 
amount from £2,000 to £500 to allow Mr S to borrow smaller amounts to help him pay his 
own bills, to ensure he doesnt personally struggle financially. 
Ive asked Aviva what its future intention is for the drawdown facility on Mr Ss account. 
Aviva has confirmed the facility will remain in place. Any future drawdown applications will be considered on a case by case basis. Supporting documents may be required to confirm the 
intended use of the funds and suitability of the lending - to ensure any realise of funds is in 
the best interest of Mr S. 
Based on everything Ive seen I think Aviva has acted fairly and in the current circumstances 
I wont be asking it to change its lending decision or do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman