DRN-2892343
The complaint
Mr P complains about a decision by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal 
Finance (Hitachi) to reject a claim he made to them that a conservatory roof was 
misrepresented to him and not of a satisfactory standard.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
was there a breach of contract?
I think its fair to say that it was an implied term of the contract that the roof and workmanship 
provided would be of a satisfactory standard.
The relevant law says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Ive not seen any evidence that the glass that was installed did not meet the specification it 
was meant to or that the workmanship was unsatisfactory. I note that the independent 
inspector hasnt commented on that either. So, I dont think theres evidence there is 
anything wrong with the product that was fitted.
was there a misrepresentation
But if Mr P was told something that was not true and that led him to enter into a contract that 
he would not otherwise have entered into, I would think there had been a misrepresentation 
and Id ask Hitachi to take some action.
Here Mr P says he was promised the new glass roof would out perform his old 
polycarbonate roof because it would keep the room warmer in winter and cooler in the 
summer. 
Ive looked at what evidence there is of the promises that were made before Mr P agreed to 
the work that was funded through finance with Hitachi.
The sales literature explains why the glass being supplied is of a better quality than other 
glass and discusses the glass superior ability to retain and/or dissipate heat. It says it will try 
to keep rooms cool in summer and warm in winter.
Mr P has provided a recording of a call a sales advisor from the supplier had with his 
daughter. Thats not the conversation that was had with him and the conversation wasnt 
about Mr Ps job. So, Mr P may therefore not have been told any of the information his 
daughter was. Amongst other things the sales advisor suggests that the glass keeps 90% of 
the heat out of the room and explains the glass qualities and why its better than ordinary 
glass.
Mr P has also suggested that it was the sales advisors responsibility to explain to him that 
the glass in the walls of the conservatory, that werent being replaced, could have created 
heating problems and the best course of action would be to fit a solid roof.
Ive therefore considered if any of this could be considered a misrepresentation, but Im not 
persuaded thats the case because:
I think the supplier was providing a replacement roof and their responsibility was 
therefore to ensure the roof met the requisite specification. Ive not seen evidence 
that the glass was not to specification or not able to deliver the benefits claimed in 
the sales literature;
the supplier wasnt providing a new conservatory and its the performance of this 
conservatory, as a whole, that I think its fair to suggest Mr P is complaining about. I 
think its fair to suggest the temperature stability in that room is impacted not only by 
the roof but by the walls, windows and the structure of the conservatory. They are 
factors outside of the scope of these works and not something I think the supplier 
can fairly be held accountable for;
Mr P has suggested the temperature regulation is worse since the roof has been 
replaced. Ive noted the temperature readings hes supplied, and I accept that they 
are not what Mr P would have hoped for. But I dont think its fair to say there was a 
promise that the new roof would deliver a specific temperature range and I dont think 
theres evidence the performance is worse as I have no information about 
temperature stability when the polycarbonate roof was in place.
Mr P has provided a report from a glazing company who dont think a glass roof 
should have been recommended and think a solid roof would be the only way to keep the conservatory at the appropriate temperature. But I dont think theres evidence 
the business were being asked to consult on the best methods to improve 
temperature stability. They were being asked to fit a glass roof that offered the 
benefits referred to in their literature and Ive not seen evidence that the roof didnt; 
only that the conservatory as a whole didnt.
So, I am not persuaded that there has been either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation here and Im not therefore asking Hitachi to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman