DRN-2170921
The complaint
Mr S complains Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter is risking the security of his 
online account by sending him unencrypted emails with sensitive information. He says there 
are alternative options it could use to communicate with him so that his information is kept 
more secure.
What happened
Mr S has an account with the peer to peer investment platform RateSetter. Hes explained, 
every month he receives statements which outline various confidential details about his 
account. This includes but is not limited to the interest accrued in the month and to date, the 
total amount on his loans and his projected returns. 
RateSetter has said it is a legal requirement for it to send Mr S monthly statements about his 
account. In addition, if there are changes to the terms and conditions on Mr Ss account, 
RateSetter has said it is needs to tell him about them within 30 days. So it does this by 
including the information in his monthly statement. 
Mr S has explained he is concerned that all of this information is sent to him by email. Hes 
pointed out the emails and documents attached arent password protected and there is no 
way for him to opt out of receiving them. He says there are several other more secure ways 
of sending this information to customers  including sending a link taking them to their 
accounts to sign into or, making the emails password protected. 
RateSetter said Mr S can choose to switch off other marketing mailing but it can only send 
statements and important information by email as its an online company  which he 
wouldve been aware of before opening his account. It has pointed to the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss account which he agreed to. And its said it thinks emailing is a secure 
way of sending this information as it only uses the registered email address provided by the 
customer. RateSetter has said it would pass Mr Ss feedback about the security of its emails 
to the relevant department but for now it will continue sending information by email. 
Unhappy with RateSetters response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He 
explained RateSetter had been inconsistent in its replies as it initially said it was a legal 
requirement to send the monthly statements and later said it chose to send the monthly 
statements by email. He also remained unhappy it hadnt taken his concerns seriously 
enough. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the terms of Mr Ss account 
allowed RateSetter to send him statements by email and she wasnt persuaded this wasnt 
secure. In any event, she explained our service wouldnt normally tell a business to change 
its policies or processes  so she thought it was up to RateSetter how it chooses to send 
statements to Mr S. As Mr S didnt agree with our investigator, the case has been passed to 
me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate this issue must be very worrying for Mr S, I dont underestimate how 
important keeping his financial and personal details confidential is to him. And RateSetter 
has a legal duty to look after his data and comply with data protection law. But its not the 
role of this service to decide if RateSetter is doing that  or to look into Mr Ss concerns 
about how secure its policy of sending all correspondence by unencrypted email is. That is 
for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to look into. And as we dont regulate 
financial businesses, I cant tell RateSetter in this case to change its processes or make 
wider changes to the way it does things. 
What I can look into is putting things right if there has been for example a breach of Mr Ss 
data. Thankfully, from what Ive seen in this case, it doesnt seem to me there has been a 
data breach of the information sent by email. It seems Mr S is more worried about what 
might happen. And whilst I understand Mr S must be very concerned that his information 
could be taken or seen, from the information I have, I cant see hes suffered a financial loss. 
I understand Mr S isnt happy with the way RateSetter has handled his complaint. In 
particular, hes said its been inconsistent in its explanation about why it sends sensitive 
information by email. Ive looked through the correspondence between Mr S and RateSetter 
and I dont agree. I can see it initially said its a legal requirement to send monthly 
statements in general. And later it said it chooses to send them by email. I dont agree these 
are inconsistent statements  instead I think its saying it is legally required to send 
statements and it chooses to do so by email. 
I appreciate Mr S would like RateSetter to commit to changing the way it communicates with 
its customers. And instead its treated what hes said as feedback. But our service doesnt 
get involved in the commercial decisions businesses make about how they run their 
business. So for the reasons Ive given, its not our role to direct it to do more in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman