DRN-4393883
The complaint
Miss L complains about the way Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc  trading as M&S 
Bank (MSB) handled a claim she made to it.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I will cover these briefly and focus on 
giving reasons for my decision.
Miss L paid a hotel (the supplier) for two accommodation bookings for a stay involving her 
and a group of friends and family. She paid a total of £2,849.24 for it using her MSB credit 
card.
Miss L says the stay didnt go ahead due to a fire at the hotel and the Covid-19 pandemic. 
She says there were attempts to reorganise but the hotel stopped responding to her 
messages and appears to be permanently closed.
Miss L raised a dispute with MSB for a refund. It considered the matter and said it was 
unable to determine that a breach or contract or misrepresentation had occurred. It also said 
that it was only responsible for the cost of Miss Ls stay  not the other guests. It offered her 
a partial refund of around £130 and said this was a goodwill offer.
Miss L brought a complaint about the way MSB handled the claim. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint looking at this in light of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) and the chargeback scheme.
MSB disagrees. In summary, it says:
Miss L was contracting with the supplier so it is only her portion of the booking costs 
that can be returned and the suppliers liability doesnt extend to other members of 
the party who she paid for;
Section 75 only covers the main cardholders financial loss  so it maintains that it 
will only cover Miss Ls loss; and
in addition the terms and conditions of the supplier are about Spanish law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to resolve disputes informally  so although I have read and considered the 
submissions of the parties I will only comment on the matters I consider central to this 
complaint.
It is important to note here that MSB is not the supplier of accommodation services. So in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable I consider its role as a provider of financial services. In 
that respect I consider chargeback and Section 75 to be relevant.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way in which MSB might have been able to recover Miss Ls 
money. It isnt guaranteed to succeed and is governed by the strict rules of the card scheme. 
However, it is often good practice to raise one where there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
In determining what is fair I have considered the relevant provisions of the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.
I note that Miss L had provided MSB evidence to show that there was a fire at the hotel and 
that it never re-opened. I also note that it would have been quite easy for MSB to discover 
more about this as well. So prima facie it would appear Miss L did not get the service she 
paid for and a chargeback reason of service not provided would be relevant.
Flight cancellations around the pandemic did cause Miss L to request her original  booking 
date to be changed. However, I note that:
the hotel would not have been available for use at that time in any event; and
the hotel offered Miss L a no penalty change of dates for the future in any case  
which it wasnt able to honour.
So even with the considerations around the pandemic in mind I think this is a fairly clear 
case of a service not being provided by the supplier.
I dont see where MSB attempted a chargeback. It indicates a chargeback would have been 
out of time here. However, I dont think it would have been. I say this with regard to the 
Mastercard Covid-19 guidance which effectively extended chargeback rights in cases where 
a consumer is offered a reasonable alternative for a cancelled service. This could be through 
a voucher or re-booking promise.  
I appreciate that in circumstances like this the fire at the hotel appears to have made the 
service unavailable regardless of the Covid -19 difficulties that came in to play for Miss L 
later on - so it isnt entirely clear how the Mastercard guidance would apply here. However, 
in the absence of evidence to the contrary (which MSB has not provided) I dont see why this 
guidance should not be read in favour of Miss L here.
MSB appears to have focused on a long stop time limit being exceeded from when the 
transactions were made to when Miss L got in touch to raise a claim in early February 2022. 
However, for this reason code (service not provided) the relevant time limit appears to be 
120 days from the last anticipated date of the service. In this case Miss L would be in time if 
her upcoming re-booking for April 2022 (which she wasnt able to use in the end) was taken 
into account in accordance with Mastercard guidance.
So overall, I think MSB should have pursued a chargeback here. And had it done so I think 
Miss L had a strong case for a service not being provided. I dont think the supplier would 
likely have defended it successfully (if at all). As a result I think this complaint succeeds 
based on the chargeback claim alone  and as Miss L paid for the full booking cost on her 
credit card she should have fairly got it all back via MSB pursuing this route. 
However, even if I were mistaken about chargeback I think Miss Ls claim succeeds via Section 75.
Section 75 
Section 75 in certain circumstances can allow Miss L to make a like claim against MSB for 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services paid for using 
her credit card.
There are certain requirements that have to be in place for Miss L to have a valid claim. I 
note she arranged the booking and contracted with the supplier as the lead booker.  The 
booking paperwork reflects this. So I am satisfied the correct agreement is in place for a 
valid claim against Nationwide.
I am satisfied that on balance the supplier breached its contract with Miss L for the booking. 
In that it had agreed to provide accommodation for her and her guests  but it failed to do so. 
I have detailed the reasons for this above  but in brief it appears that a fire at the hotel and 
its subsequent permanent closure is the underlying reason why the service was never 
provided (including any re-arranged dates).
My impression is that MSB now accept there is a breach of contract by the supplier. But it 
states that Miss L is not able to recover the full booking costs  and that doing so is contrary 
to Section 75 as it is not her financial loss.
The contract from the supplier says the party it is entering into a legally binding contract with 
(which it refers to as you) is the person arranging the booking. Here that person is clearly 
Miss L who arranged the booking and appears on the contract as lead booker. After 
considering the wording of the suppliers contract nothing in it persuades me that Miss L is 
not contracting for the fulfilment of the entire booking here. Therefore, I am persuaded that 
she would have a right to take the supplier to court in respect of problems with the booking. 
I agree with MSB in one respect - Miss L is unlikely to have been able to recover costs 
against the supplier if they relate to losses she hasnt suffered. However, here the starting 
point is that Miss L paid for the entire booking upfront on her card. Therefore, prima facie the 
financial loss should the booking not be fulfilled is entirely her own. I do accept that Miss L 
has private arrangements with friends and family who have paid her for their portion of the 
booking. This can create a question mark over whether she will be recovering funds that she 
has been reimbursed for. However, because the stay did not go ahead it follows that Miss L 
will have to pay her friends and family their money back and she has confirmed this to be 
the case in her correspondence. Therefore, I dont believe it is reasonable to restrict her 
losses here in the way MSB has suggested. 
I note MSB has pointed out that Spanish law applies to the contract between the supplier 
and Miss L. However, it has not articulated how that would make a difference here to what 
appears to be a straightforward case of breach of contract for a service not being provided. 
Therefore, I dont consider this makes a difference to my findings in regard to Section 75 or 
chargeback here.
Putting things right
In summary I am persuaded that a chargeback would have likely succeeded. But as a result 
of the suppliers breach of contract Miss L is out of pocket for the full cost of the two 
bookings. So, in any event this needs to be refunded to her in light of the provisions of 
Section 75. 
In the particular circumstances I think it fair that Miss Ls card should fairly be re-worked from 1 March 2022 which is soon after the date MSB determined that a chargeback claim would 
not succeed. It should include out of pocket interest if applicable from this point.
My final decision
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank should rework Miss Ls credit 
card as if it had credited the £2,849.24 refund to her card on 1 March 2022. If this results in a 
credit balance it should pay this to Miss L including 8% simple yearly interest calculated from 
the date of said credit balance to the date of settlement.
If MSB considers it has to deduct tax from any interest award it should provide Miss L with a 
certificate of tax deduction.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman