DRN-4292989
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs O took out in 
October 2013 with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, on the advice of a third party advisor. 
There are various aspects to the complaint; these include the sale of the mortgage in 2003, 
the increase in the account balance due to the accrual of interest, and the loss of Power of 
Attorney documents. Mrs O is represented here by her Attorney; for simplicitys sake, Ill 
refer to any statements made as coming from Mrs O, even where theyve been made by her 
representative.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 26 July 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been 
presented, using my own words and rounding the figures involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that; its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It 
allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not 
be side-tracked by matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome. 
Mrs O took the mortgage out in 2003. The terms of the mortgage provide that no 
monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be 
repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their 
death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but 
then an early repayment charge (ERC) is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until 
the debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there 
can be a significant balance to be repaid. 
In 2021, Mrs O, who was by now widowed, put her property up for sale to pay for 
respite care. After a year had passed with no sale, Aviva told Mrs O it now had the 
right to take possession of the mortgaged property. 
Mrs O complained, and in October 2022 Aviva issued a final response rejecting the 
complaint. When it was referred to us, our investigator didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld; Mrs O asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal 
processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).  We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As far as the suitability of the mortgage at the time it was sold is concerned, that 
wasnt a matter for Aviva. It was the responsibility of the third party advisor that 
recommended Mrs O take the mortgage out. Avivas responsibility was to ensure the 
proposed mortgage met its lending criteria at the time, and theres nothing in any of 
the evidence to suggest Aviva made a wrong lending decision.
Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular interest 
rate is fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. Its normal for interest to 
roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a 
compounding basis. 
The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms by a projection included in the 
point-of sale material. Ive seen the mortgage offer Mrs O accepted and agreed to be 
bound by when she borrowed the money. The projection uses an assumption that the 
mortgage will last for 19 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption 
and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
The rate charged is 4.89% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out 
in the offer. The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on 
equity release mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the 
debt over time as the interest rolls up. 
Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when deciding 
how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how their 
debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
offer, as it was in this case. Yes, 4.89% sounds very high in the climate that has 
applied for much of the last fifteen years or so until rates recently stated rising again. 
But this rate was set in 2003, when the financial landscape was different from what it 
is now. 
Aviva has received, and responded to, requests for redemption statements for the 
mortgage at regular intervals over the years since the mortgage started. So the 
gradual increase in the mortgage balance to its current level should not have come 
as a surprise.
I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mrs O studied the mortgage offer, 
or how much of the information it contained she assimilated; before she agreed to 
borrow the money in 2003. In any event, responsibility for ensuring Mrs O knew and 
understood what she was agreeing to, lay with her advisor. 
Also, Mrs O was required to have separate legal advice, from solicitors acting for her, 
before entering into the transaction. The solicitor (or firm of solicitors) giving that 
advice was required to issue a document (known as a SHIP certificate) to confirm 
that having met Mrs O face to face, it had fully explained the nature of the transaction 
and that she had confirmed her desire to go ahead with it. Mrs Os representative 
says that didnt happen, but I have seen a copy of the SHIP certificate, and Im 
satisfied the correct process was followed and the advice was given.The point about the SHIP certificate wasnt covered in the investigators assessment, 
so Im addressing it now in a provisional decision, so that both parties can comment 
before my decision is finalised. Ive asked the investigator to send Mrs Os 
representative a copy of the SHIP certificate, alongside but separate from, this 
provisional decision. 
On the point about documentation going missing, the available evidence doesnt 
point to Aviva losing it being any more likely than Aviva not receiving it in the first 
place. Overall, I cant be sufficiently confident that making an award of compensation 
against Aviva for losing documents is fair and reasonable. 
As far as Mrs Os current situation is concerned, Aviva has first of all done what the 
underlying contract between it and Mrs O requires it to do. That is, give her twelve 
months to try and sell the mortgaged property and repay the mortgage. Its then done 
what its general duty to treat consumer fairly requires of it. That is, remind Mrs O of 
its right to seek possession once the twelve months had passed but not immediately 
taking steps to enforce that right. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Aviva has treated Mrs O unfairly.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments. 
Aviva hasnt added anything further, Mrs O, through her representative has made a number 
of points, which I summarise below.
Avivas procedures required it to only accept applications from accredited intermediaries. 
Research has revealed that the individuals involved in the sale of this mortgage werent 
properly accredited, so Aviva was at fault in accepting the application and granting the 
loan.
Avivas subsequent takeover of the broker network that included the intermediary 
involved in the sale means it took on responsibility for past activities and outcomes. 
Aviva cannot distance itself from those when it is about to benefit from the mortgage by 
taking possession of Mrs Os property.
One of the key requirements of the SHIP certificate  that borrowers be free to move 
lenders without financial penalty  wasnt adhered to. Mrs O thinks the solicitors who 
advised her took Avivas and the intermediaries assurances on face value.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and both parties accepting the gist of it, I wont be changing my decision. However, Ill 
address Mrs Os further points.
On the first point, I have to assess what Aviva did, or didnt do, by reference to the standards 
and business practices that applied at the time the mortgage was granted. I cant apply the 
more stringent requirements that were brought in by mortgage regulation in 2004, and have 
continued to evolve subsequently. 
All that was required in 2003 for Aviva to accept Mrs Os mortgage application was for the 
introducing broker firm to provide its respective registration numbers with the then regulator the Financial Services Authority, and the Mortgage Code Compliance Board. As both 
numbers were provided, Aviva could reasonably accept and consider the application.
Aviva may have subsequently taken over the broker network involved in the sale of the 
mortgage, but the broker network remains a separate and discrete business in its own right. 
It receives and deals with complaints about its activities and, where applicable, offers referral 
rights to this service to those consumers who arent satisfied with the responses it provides. 
The complaint before me here is about Avivas lending decision, not about the sale of the 
mortgage by the intermediary. If Mrs O wishes to complaint about the sale of the mortgage, 
she is free to do so, but to the broker network rather than Aviva. If she wishes to do that, our 
investigator should be able to answer any questions she may have about how she can do 
so.
Lastly, it was for many years perfectly normal for equity release mortgages to come with an 
early repayment charge clause. Im not persuaded theres any conflict between that and the 
completion of the SHIP certificate by the independent solicitors in Mrs Os case. If Mrs O 
believes there were shortcomings on the part of the solicitors  and to be clear, nothing I say 
here implies or should be inferred as saying there were  Mrs O would need to raise her 
concerns with the solicitors directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman