DRN-3152478
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in November 2010.
Mr R says that he discovered he was being charged a monthly fee for his bank account and 
says that he never agreed to this.
What happened
Halifax said that it didnt think that the URCA had been mis-sold. So one of our adjudicators 
assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that the account had been mis-sold.
Mr R disagreed, so the matter was referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has been 
provided, I dont think that the account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr R says that his account was changed to a fee-paying packaged bank account without his 
consent. However, Halifax has provided a signed application form showing that Mr R agreed 
to upgrade his account to an URCA on 17 November 2010. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr R 
did agree to change his account to an URCA, although I can understand if Mr R now does 
not remember agreeing to it  given that it was upgraded over ten years ago.
Mr R has explained that his command of the English language was not good when the 
account was sold to him. However, if he did not understand what Halifax was telling him 
about the account, I dont understand why he wouldve agreed to sign up for it in the first 
place. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that he was unable to decline upgrading his 
account. I say this especially as hed held a fee-free account with Halifax for around 5 years 
by then, so he was clearly aware that they were available to him. And as Mr R has no 
recollection of agreeing to the sale, I think its just as likely (if not more so) that he signed the 
application form with a good appreciation of what it cost and included, having discussed it 
with Halifax first. 
Neither party has provided any evidence to suggest the account was sold on an advised 
basis. This means that Halifax did not have to check if the account was right for Mr R. But it 
was required to provide Mr R with information about the account, so that he was able to 
understand what he was agreeing to.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was sold to Mr R, there is limited information 
available to show what exactly was discussed with Mr R when the account was sold to him. 
However, I am satisfied that Mr R agreed to the account knowing that fee-free accounts 
were available to him. And although Mr R says he was unaware that he was paying a fee for 
his account, I think its just as likely that he was told that it would incur a monthly fee and he 
now cant recall being told that. 
I also think its likely that Mr R wouldve been told about some of the account features. I say 
this because I think that Halifax wouldve wanted to make the account seem attractive to Mr 
R, so that hed agree to it. And I cant see why Mr R would choose to change his account, 
unless he was told about some of the features it came with. Halifax has also provided 
evidence to show that it sent Mr R information about the account shortly after hed agreed to 
it. So I think he was also given the opportunity to consider whether the URCA was still worth 
taking out, after hed agreed to it.
So overall, I think its likely that Mr R was given at least some information about the account 
before he agreed to it. I accept that Halifax might not have given Mr R all of the important 
information about the account before he agreed to it. But Ive not seen anything specific 
about Mr Rs circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to 
it, had he been given more information about the account in November 2010. As such, on 
balance, I dont think the account was mis-sold. 
I understand that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr R may now regret (or indeed not 
recall) agreeing to the account and may feel that its been poor value for money over the 
years hes held it. But that in itself doesnt mean that it was mis-sold in the first place. 
Finally, I note that Mr Rs representative mentioned that Mr R still has the URCA on his 
account. If Mr R still has the URCA and wants to downgrade his account to a fee-free 
account, he should follow the information that Halifax provided in its final response letter, 
where it outlined how he can go about downgrading the account. 
I appreciate that this decision will be disappointing for Mr R. But I hope I have been able to 
explain why, in this case, Ive not been able to find in his favour.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman