DRN-1571334
The complaint
Mr L complains that Allianz Insurance plc mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999 when he applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mr L complained to this Service. He said he didnt believe he had bought PPI because he 
always declined it.
Our adjudicator thought the claim should not be upheld. Mr L disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
Mr L added through his representative that the PPI was added to the credit card account 
when he didnt need it because he had a secure job and an employees policy with life cover, 
unemployment cover and critical illness cover - this policy would have paid out for 12 
months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr L, so Ill explain why.
Mr L complains that he did not give his consent to have PPI added to his account. He says 
he applied for the credit card on a postal application form. Allianz does not have Mr Ls 
original PPI application, but it sent us a sample of the application form which it says it would 
have sent to its consumers around the time of Mr Ls sale. 
I can see from the sample application form that a consumer had to tick a box for PPI to cover 
the credit card account. I think Mr L probably ticked this box and signing the credit card 
agreement would have been his consent for PPI to be added to his account. Presumably, Mr 
L could have left the box unticked to decline the PPI. So as he had a clear choice on the 
form, I think the PPI was shown to be an optional product.
Mr L says the sale was non-advised  which I would expect for a postal application. For non-
advised sales, Allianz didnt recommend the policy to Mr L - it just gave him information 
about PPI. But the information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading so that he could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI.
Allianz told us it didnt have the original policy booklet or leaflets which may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely Mr L 
would have received some documents or explanation with or on the reverse of the 
application form that would have given the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. But its also possible Allianz didnt do things properly when making sure the 
information provided on the policy was good enough.
That being said even if Allianz did give all the information Mr L needed to make an informed 
choice, I think he probably would have taken the policy because at the time of the sale:
he was eligible for the PPI.
I dont think he would have been caught by any of the main things not covered by the 
policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
So I dont think that more detailed information about the exclusions would have put 
him off from buying PPI.
I dont know how Allianz explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mr L. But theres 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for him in 1999. So I dont think that 
more detailed information about cost and benefits would have put him off from buying 
PPI.
 
Mr L told us about his sick pay, savings and employees insurance policy  all of which he 
was aware of at the time of the sale. I have considered them all very carefully. However, 
having decided he most likely chose to have the PPI added to his account, I think he wanted 
this type of cover in addition to his other sources of income. So I think he probably thought 
PPI could be useful for him.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr L consented to the optional policy being added to 
his account. And I think the information was probably clear enough for him to make a choice 
to buy it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman