DRN-4167235
The complaint
T complains about the settlement by Covea Insurance plc of a loss of rent claim it made on a 
Property Owners insurance policy following a flood at its premises in June 2019.
What happened
T is the owner of premises that were let to tenants and which were affected by flooding in 
June 2019. T made a claim on its policy and Covea appointed a loss adjuster to manage the 
claim. 
The loss adjuster inspected the site and issued a preliminary report on 29 July 2019. T 
appointed contractors to carry out the repairs and a surveyor to manage the work, which was 
completed in October 2021. 
In addition to the repairs, T claimed for loss of rental income while the work was being done. 
The loss adjuster made an offer to pay nine months rent. T didnt accept this and said: 
the offer didnt cover the full loss of rent it had suffered;
it had done everything it could to progress the project as quickly as possible and had 
used the contractor which the loss adjuster suggested;
its surveyor provided a schedule of works which was essentially cut in half by the 
loss adjuster and this caused delays as the insurer had to return to the original 
proposed schedule of works;
a compromise was reached about the start of the project, but the future works were 
never discussed and there was no time limit for them to be carried out.
The loss adjuster made an offer to pay fifteen months rent to try to resolve the claim. T did 
not accept the offer and claimed the full loss of rent for the period the works were going on.
When T referred the complaint to this service our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
She said: 
T could claim for loss of rent for the period set out in the policy, which was 36 
months;
considering the timeline of events and the comments from Ts surveyor, it wasnt 
unreasonable that the repairs took a lot longer than originally anticipated; 
it was for Covea to show the work hadnt been done in a reasonable time and it 
hadnt done so.
The investigator recommended a further payment for loss of rent for the period up until the 
works were completed in October 2021.
Covea didnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says:
It doesnt believe T has acted reasonably or attempted to mitigate its loss. 
It had other work done, which wasnt part of the insurance, and this was a deliberate 
attempt to make the loss of rent period longer to increase the amount of the claim  
in effect using the policy as a substitute for rent it would have lost by having work 
done.
The offer of 15 months rent is generous and was initially accepted by T.
Ts broker, who has assisted it in relation to the claim, says its not true T accepted the offer 
of 15 months rent; this was accepted as an interim payment and when the works overran, 
the additional period should also have been covered.
As no agreement has been reached I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The cover in the policy for Rent Receivable was for: loss of rent receivable arising from
damage to any property owned by you, occurring during the indemnity period following an
incident during the period of insurance caused by a specified peril insured under the 
buildings section.
The indemnity period was 36 months. So the starting point is that T had cover for 36 months 
rent. 
T had a duty to mitigate its loss  so if was responsible for avoidable delays, it would be 
reasonable to take that into account. But if Covea wishes to reduce the amount paid and 
claim that T is not entitled to cover for the full period allowed in the policy, then the onus is 
on Covea to prove T was responsible for the delays and I dont think it has done that. 
There were some initial delays in getting tenders and agreeing the specifications for the work 
but a compromise was reached in relation that period. This was included in the payment of 
15 months rent. So I dont need to make a finding on that. The issue for me to decide is 
whether Covea should also cover the rent for the later period, after delays occurred in 
carrying out the repairs. 
There is a difference of opinion as to the reasons for the delays. So Ive considered the 
evidence from both sides about what happened. 
When the claim was made there was a meeting on site to review and agree the scope of 
repair. A full survey was undertaken by specialists which indicated that large areas needed 
to be stripped out due to contamination or concealed dampness. The Schedule of Works 
was issued to contractors for pricing. The lowest of the pricing returns was £117,000.
The loss adjuster said it then transpired that the contamination/dampness wasnt a concern 
and strip out works were not required. The surveyor provided a reduced scope of £66,537.
Both the surveyor and the broker say delays were caused by the fact items which the loss 
adjuster removed from the specification had to be reintroduced as the work went on, and the 
main contractor had to allocate labour to other projects while it waited for the loss adjuster to 
approve the changes. 
The loss adjuster says it was reasonable to have removed those items and then consider 
each of them as they arose. Even if thats the case, the contractor gave examples of  delays 
on the project. He said there was out of sequence working, as several of the additional 
elements were discovered as the reinstatement works progressed. To maintain continuity on site, they had to alter their programme. And he says they had to leave site on several 
occasions while they awaited the lengthy process of assessing the requirements, producing 
the costs and receiving authorisation.
Its clear there are differences of view between the various parties involved. But on balance I 
find the combination of comments from the broker, surveyor and contractor more persuasive.  
I appreciate Covea says they are not independent but neither is the loss adjuster, and their 
comments are consistent. 
There were also outside factors including the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and the fact 
the flooding in June 2019 had affected lots of premises in the area; there would have been 
many insurance claims and a high demand for contractors and labour. So when the project 
was paused awaiting authorisation of the higher costs, the labour was diverted elsewhere 
and had to be brought back to resume the work. 
T wasnt responsible for any of this  it didnt decide what should be included in the 
specifications, what the process should be for reconsidering items or agreeing whether they 
should be done. And it had no control over how long it took to get each item authorised. So it 
would not be fair to penalise T for this.  
 
More recently Covea and the loss adjuster have said T deliberately carried out other work, 
not related to insurance claim, to prolong things and allow it to claim more for loss of rent. 
But it didnt raise this at the time or put it to T, to give it a chance to comment. And this 
allegation is strongly denied.
Weighing up all the evidence, Im not persuaded that T caused unnecessary delays. Taking 
all of the above into account I dont think it would be fair to make further deductions from the 
rent claim. 
The additional rent the investigator recommended was from end of the period that the 
payment of fifteen months loss of rent applied to, until the completion of the works in October 
2021. I agree that would be fair and so Covea should pay for that period. Before making my 
decision I asked the parties to clarify the period covered by 15 months the payment, to be 
clear about what period remained from then until October 2021. 
Covea still maintains that the work could have been completed earlier and does not think 
any further payment should be made.
T says:
there was a total of 25 months loss of rent;
15 months has been paid, and the initial seven months period was half paid  to be 
fair to Covea, that could be said to be four months;
the final date was September 2021;
this leaves the period from April to September which is six months.
As Ive said, I agree with the investigators view that there should be a further payment to 
cover the period from the end of the 15 months already paid up to the end date. For the 
avoidance of doubt (and based on the comments received) I think that period is another six 
months.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to pay the loss of rent for the 
additional period of six months.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman