DRN-2099809
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice (FTP), dealt with her claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In December 2018, Mrs M instructed FTP to make mis-sold PPI claims against a number of 
different lenders, including Lender A and Lender M. In February 2019 Lender M rejected the 
claim, saying PPI hadnt been mis-sold. FTP asked Mrs M for some further information, 
which she didnt supply until August 2019. At which point FTP escalated Lender Ms claim to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In November 2019 The Financial Ombudsman Service said Lender M had mis-sold PPI to 
Mrs M, and told Lender M to pay her compensation. Which they did. Once the compensation 
was paid, FTP invoiced Mrs M for their success fee.
Mrs M has complained it took Lender M 13-weeks to offer her compensation, not the 8-
weeks she was originally told it would take. Because of this delay, she thinks FTP should 
waive their fee. 
FTP agreed to waive their fee for the claim against Lender A, because they said they hadnt 
kept Mrs M updated about the progress of this claim. But they didnt think they were 
responsible for the delays in the claim against Lender M. So they didnt waive this fee.
Mrs M was unhappy with FTPs response to her complaint. So shes brought her complaint 
to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said he thought FTP had acted fairly by waiving the fee for the claim against 
Lender A. He said theyd recognised they hadnt given the best customer service and he 
thought FTPs offer was reasonable in the circumstances.
But the investigator thought FTP werent responsible for the delay in the claim against 
Lender M being escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They asked Mrs M for 
further information in March 2019, shortly after Lender M rejected the claim, and they chased 
her for it from April to July 2019. And when Mrs M provided this in early August 2019, FTP 
escalated the claim the following day.
The investigator also thought FTP werent responsible for the delay in Lender M paying out 
the compensation. While he understood why Mrs M was frustrated by this delay, he said that 
this was caused by Lender M and FTP couldnt be held responsible for this. So he didnt 
think FTP needed to waive their fee for the claim against Lender M.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She says that FTP didnt chase the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about her claim, once they escalated it. And when she chased it, she 
was told that something had gone a drift between the Financial Ombudsman Service and 
FTP. So she doesnt think that she should be held accountable for this.
Shes also said that what happened with Lender A and the time it took for her claim to be 
escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service has no bearing on her complaint. Her 
complaint is just about what happened after FTP escalated her claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs 
M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Id also like to clarify that the Claims Management Ombudsman is part of, but separate to, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. This allows us to consider complaints about Clams 
Management Companies (such as FTP) whove represented consumers in complaints about 
financial businesses. But this means I dont have any access to, in this case, the case notes 
or the call recordings in relation to FTP representing Mrs M in her claim against Lender M. 
So I wont be referring in detail to what happened while the claim was being investigated.
FTP escalated Mrs Ms claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 6 August 2019. This 
was investigated and, on 22 November 2019, the Financial Ombudsman Service said they 
thought Mrs M had been mis-sold PPI. And they gave Lender M until 5 December 2019 to 
either accept this view or ask for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Lender M accepted the view, and on 16 December 2019, the Financial Ombudsman Service 
wrote to FTP to tell them this. In this letter the Financial Ombudsman Service said its likely 
to be around eight weeks before {Mrs M} hears from {Lender M} with their offer. So it would 
be really helpful if you could be patient until then  and give them time to sort things out.
But Lender M didnt confirm the amount of compensation Mr M was entitled to until 17 March 
2020. This was around 13-weeks after the Financial Ombudsman Service confirmed the 
success of the claim.
Ive seen nothing to show me that the Financial Ombudsman Service needed anything 
additional in order to complete their investigation into Mrs Ms claim. They kept FTP updated 
that the investigation was ongoing. But there would be little point in FTP chasing the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  as Mrs M wasnt in a vulnerable situation, there was no 
valid reason why her claim should be dealt with as a priority. So FTP chasing the Financial 
Ombudsman Service wouldnt have made any difference to how long the investigation took.
The Financial Conduct Authority had put in a deadline of 29 August 2019 for new PPI 
complaints. This meant that, as the deadline approached, financial businesses thatd sold 
PPI received a large number of new claims. In some instances, this was substantially more 
than had been expected or accounted for. As a result, this meant that departments dealing 
with PPI claims werent always able to adhere to published time frames.
In December 2019, the Financial Ombudsman Service said it was likely to be around 8-
weeks before Lender M made an offer; not that the offer would definitely been made within 
8-weeks. And, given the circumstances described above, I can understand why Lender M 
wouldve taken longer than usual to do this. But this is something FTP couldnt influence. 
This delay is entirely down to Lender M, and FTP cant be held responsible for this.So, Im satisfied that FTP didnt cause any undue delay in dealing with this claim, or in how 
long it took Mrs M to receive her compensation. Because of this, I wont be asking them to 
reduce or waive their fee for this claim; or to pay Mrs M any other form of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about The Protection 
Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade Practice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman