DRN-3325742
The complaint
Mr W complains about the support he received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) during his time of financial difficulty due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr W entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP) for a new car. The cars cash price was £44,470. He was required to pay instalments 
of £479 with an optional final payment of £23,465.
In May 2020, Mr W told VWFS that due to the Covid-19 pandemic he was experiencing 
financial difficulty as his income had been reduced as he was furloughed. In June 2020, he 
requested a payment deferral and the agreement was temporarily suspended. 
VWFS said in order for the payment deferral to be set up he had to agree to a modified 
agreement which meant the monthly instalments would be £520 for the remaining 39 months 
followed by the final payment. Mr W explained to VWFS that he wouldnt be able to afford 
this and he asked for the term to be extended instead. He later agreed to the modified 
agreement and a three month payment deferral was set up from June to August 2020. 
However Mr W complained.
VWFS said in order to support consumers following a payment deferral there were two 
options:
 
1. Fixed term- the instalments would increase and the term remains the same;
2. Extended term- the agreement is extended by the duration of the payment deferral 
and the instalments would increase.    
They said in both options the monthly instalments would increase and having regard to the 
amount of time left on Mr Ws agreement (more than 18 months), option one was the most 
suitable for him.
As the first payment deferral was coming to an end, in September 2020 Mr W told VWFS his 
financial situation hadnt changed. As before, VWFS sent a proposal to modify the 
agreement. This time they said the instalments would increase to £567 for the remaining 36 
months. As this still meant the instalments would be unaffordable for Mr W, he made a 
further request to VWFS for the agreement to be extended but they refused. Mr W agreed to 
the modified agreement and a second payment deferral was set up to last a further three 
months- September to November 2020.
 
Concerned about his ability to afford the agreement once the deferral ended, in January 
2021 Mr W used his savings to make a partial payment of £2,750. He said he did this to 
ensure the instalments returned to an amount he could afford. The agreement was brought 
up to date and hes been paying instalments of £481 ever since. 
Unhappy with VWFS, Mr W brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They believed VWFS hadnt fairly taken into account Mr 
Ws financial circumstances. They recommended they offer to extend the agreement and if 
Mr W accepted, to refund the partial payment of £2,750. They also said VWFS should pay 
£150 compensation.  
Since the investigators opinion there has been much back and forth between our service, 
VWFS and Mr W. VWFS initially maintained their position and said the partial payment 
couldnt be refunded. However they later agreed to try to resolve matters informally with Mr 
W. During a conversation with him, they proposed to extend the agreement by one month 
which meant the instalments would increase by £106. As this remained unaffordable, Mr W 
didnt agree to it.  
In February 2022, I issued a provisional decision, upholding the complaint. I said:
Financial difficulty 
The UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic in 
March 2020. Based on VWFS contact notes, I can see Mr W told them in May 2020 was 
experiencing financial hardship as a result.  
In instances of consumers facing financial difficulty, the relevant guidance that I would 
expect VWFS to follow is found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. So Ive taken this into account when 
reviewing this case. 
Additionally, at the time of Mr Ws call in May 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
had published its Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: draft temporary guidance for 
firms. This set out the rule changes to deal with the impact of Covid-19. It stated a firm 
should grant a customer whose finances had been negatively impacted by the pandemic, a 
payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) its 
obviously not in the customers interests to do. In this case, its clear Mr Ws financial 
difficulties were due to him being furloughed due to the pandemic so Im satisfied the 
guidance applied to him. Therefore I wouldve expected VWFS to offer a payment deferral 
which is what happened. A three month payment deferral was offered and subsequently 
agreed to in June 2020.
In July 2020 the FCA issued further guidance saying if a customer wasnt able to resume full 
payments after the payment deferral, a further one should be offered. Again this was granted 
to Mr W in September 2020 as his financial situation hadnt changed. In total, a six month 
payment deferral was applied which was the maximum allowed under the guidance so Im 
satisfied VWFS did provide financial support to Mr W. 
However, I note in order for the payment deferrals to be granted, Mr W needed to agree to 
the agreement being modified. Ive read VWFS correspondence to Mr W which outlined the 
same. The first one confirmed the instalment would increase to £520. By the second one, it 
had gone up to £567. This was an overall increase of £88 per month which I consider to be 
significant so I can understand why Mr W felt reluctant to commit to such an agreement of 
increased instalments at a time when hes experiencing financial difficulty.  
The letters explained in order to receive the payment deferral, he must sign the modified 
agreement and return it within ten calendar days. If he doesnt agree to it or its not received 
within ten days, the agreement will be unsuspended and the direct debits reinstated. It goes 
on to say any payments and/or arrears would be due unless contact is made to make other arrangements. This shows there was other support options available but I can understand 
Mr W may not have fully realised that at the time. 
Having read the FCAs guidance in April and July 2020, I think its fair to say the purpose 
was to provide temporary and immediate support to consumers who were struggling 
financially due to the pandemic. So I dont find it fair nor reasonable that in order to receive 
the payment deferral, Mr W needed to agree to a modified agreement and commit to paying 
increased instalments at a time when hes experiencing financial difficulty. At the time, it 
wouldve been difficult for him to predict with any degree of certainty what his financial 
situation would look like at the end of the deferral and the extent of the impact of the 
pandemic on his circumstances. 
As part of my investigation, I spoke to Mr W about his personal and financial circumstances 
at the time. He said he had been furloughed for six months so his salary was reduced. He 
explained during this time his employer started making redundancies which might have 
impacted his role. He said the future of his employment was uncertain as there was no 
guarantee he would return to work even once the furlough ended. In addition, his partner 
was expecting a baby and due to go on maternity leave so he was very concerned about his 
financial situation and it caused him great worry and upset. He said the monthly instalment 
of £479 was the most he could afford each month, nothing more. Given these wider 
circumstances, I can understand why Mr W was stressed by the situation. I appreciate it 
wouldve been a difficult time for him. 
In order to keep the agreement at a monthly amount he could afford, he said he felt he had 
no alternative but to use his savings to make a partial payment of £2,750. He said this was 
the last resort as the savings were for a deposit towards buying a property for his growing 
family. On this basis, I can understand why he wants this money back. 
The FCAs guidance in July 2020 provided further clarity about the expectations on firms 
including what happens at the end of the deferral. This guidance was in place at the time the 
first payment deferral came to an end in August 2020 so I wouldve expected VWFS to take 
this into account. 
In regards to what happens at the end of the deferral period, the guidance says: 
Firms should take reasonable steps to contact their customers in good time before the end 
of an initial payment deferral period about resuming payments and to engage with them 
about their options when it expires
It also says:
Where a customer can resume full repayments after the initial payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow them to 
repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer 
period for repayment. The firm should consider what is most in the customers interests. 
For example, where appropriate, the firm could lengthen the time during which the customer 
is allowed to make repayments by: 
 the length of the initial payment deferral or 
 a period of time that enables the customer to keep the same contractual payments they 
had prior to the payment deferral.
There are other parts of the guidance which are relevant in this case but I specifically wanted 
to highlight the above. This is because I think its fair to say the FCAs intention was where a payment deferral had been granted and its due to come to an end, it was expected  
businesses like VWFS to work with consumers about how best to pay the missing sums. 
However, to my mind, this hasnt happened in this case. In order to get the payment 
deferrals, Mr W had to agree to the repayment plan by agreeing to modify the agreement of 
increased monthly instalments. 
Given the wider context of the pandemic and the significant impact on VWFS and their 
operations, I recognise they wouldve had to quickly set up support for their consumers and 
work through the impact of the same in the long term. Additionally, given the large number of 
consumers that was likely to have requested such support, its reasonable they wanted to 
offer support on a cohort level. As explained by VWFS, they made the operational decision 
to provide two possibilities of repayment depending on how long was left on the agreement, 
that is, agreements with more than 18 months left and those under 18 months left. I can 
understand why VWFS decided not to automatically add deferred payments to the end of the 
agreement as this is likely to increase the total amount payable which wouldnt always be in 
the interest of their consumers. 
However I wouldnt have expected Mr W to commit to such a modified agreement in order 
for the payment deferral to be granted in the first place if it was unaffordable for him. I 
believe it wouldve been fairer to grant the deferral and as it came to an end, VWFS to 
communicate with him about the proposed repayment options. At this point, its most likely 
he wouldve had a better understanding of his financial circumstances and his ability to 
repay. 
For some consumers paying increased monthly rentals during the term of the agreement 
may have been agreeable and in a lot of cases this would be fine. I dont believe VWFS 
increasing the instalments in order to pay back the deferred sums is an issue in itself. 
However problems arise when those increases are unaffordable. Where this happens, I 
would expect alternative and sustainable support to be offered. In this case, the increased 
rentals would cause financial difficulty for Mr W so I believe it wouldve been reasonable for 
VWFS to have assessed his individual circumstances and provided appropriate support. 
However there is no evidence they done so despite him making it clear the increased 
instalments were unaffordable. As mentioned in the FCAs guidance such support may 
include extending the agreement by the appropriate number of months which would allow 
the same instalments amount prior to the deferral. 
Our investigator reached the same opinion as outlined above so its disappointing that even 
when VWFS agreed to discuss a suitable way forward with Mr W, they only proposed to 
extend it by one month. The amount they proposed was still unaffordable so I dont find it 
was a productive conversation so I can understand Mr Ws further upset. Its unclear why 
VWFS only offered to extend it by one month when they have the ability to extend it for 
longer. This was another opportunity for VWFS to take into account Mr Ws circumstances 
and what he could afford. Had they done so, this situation couldve been resolved sooner. 
I wish to point out that extending the agreement is likely to mean Mr W pays more overall so 
if this option and relevant figures were made clear to him, I dont know whether he wouldve 
acted differently. However that wouldve been his decision to make with the relevant 
information.
To put things right, I believe VWFS should treat the six payments between June and 
November 2020 as deferred and any adverse information relating to these months should be 
removed from Mr Ws credit file. They should also refund the partial payment of £2,750.
There is no dispute the six deferred payments should be paid as this is money owed to 
VWFS and Mr W accepts this. Once the £2,750 is refunded, VWFS should allow him to pay 
the contractual instalment amount prior to the payment deferral (that is £479). I must make it clear to Mr W if hes unable to pay at least the original contractual payment this may impact 
his credit file. If hes able to pay more, they should allow him to do so. If there remains a 
balance at the end of the agreement, they should set up a suitable repayment plan based on 
what he can afford. I would like to take this opportunity to remind VWFS that if Mr W is still 
experiencing financial difficulty, they should treat him with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
VWFS has advised should the agreement be extended this is likely to impact on Mr Ws 
ability to purchase the car should he plan to do so at the end of the term. In the event he 
wishes to buy the car, any missed payments must be paid in addition to the final payment. 
So I encourage Mr W to take this into consideration as any extension is likely to mean he 
pays more overall due to the interest.
Summary
Overall, I recognise VWFS efforts to offer financial support to Mr W in line with the FCAs 
guidance however I dont believe they fairly took into account his individual circumstances 
when discussing the repayment of the deferred sums. 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ws comments and how hes said this situation has impacted 
him during what was already a difficult time. He looked to VWFS for support during his time 
of financial difficulty and their failings added to his worry. Given the circumstances, I believe 
VWFS should pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Response to my provisional decision
Both parties were invited to respond to the above. VWFS said if they were to implement the 
above, it would likely lead to issues with Mr Ws credit file and impact his ability to own the 
car at the end of the agreement. In order to settle the complaint they said they were willing to 
make a goodwill payment of £1,375 (half of the partial payment) to Mr W and he wouldnt be 
required to pay this amount back. They confirmed this wouldnt have any impact on the 
current agreement meaning he would continue to pay the monthly instalments of £481. In 
addition, they agreed to pay the £200 compensation. This offer was put to Mr W and he 
agreed to accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe VWFS offer to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
Im glad to see Mr W has agreed to the same.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services should:
-Make a payment of £1,375 (half of the partial payment) to Mr W;
-Treat the missed payments from June 2020 to November 2020 as deferred 
and remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file for those months;-Pay £200 compensation to Mr W for the trouble and upset caused;
*If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman