DRN-2884758
The complaint
Mr K and the estates of Mrs K and Mr K complain that Santander UK plc (when it was 
trading as Abbey National plc) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policy taken out in connection with a joint mortgage in 1995. The 
policy was taken out by post. The cost of the PPI policy was £13.90 per month. If Mr K made 
a successful claim, the PPI policy would cover their monthly repayment (providing around 
£200 of benefit). This would have been paid for up to 36 months per claim for accident and 
sickness and up to 12 months for unemployment.
The policy covered Mr K only, the son of the late Mrs K and Mr K, who were in their sixties at 
the time the mortgage was taken out. To keep things simple, where I refer to Mr K in this 
decision, I am referring to the son. I will refer to his father as the late Mr K. 
Mr K said he was entitled to full sick pay and had other means to pay the mortgage, so didnt 
need PPI. The mortgage started in 1995 and ended in 2014. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint, so Mr K asked for it to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said although the cost of the PPI was not unaffordable, the endowment 
payment he had to pay each month was also not unaffordable. He said he paid around £35-
£50 per month, so paying for PPI was not worth it to him, in these circumstances. Further, he 
didnt ever use the cover, even when he was not working, as he was always able to maintain 
his own endowment payments. He said this proves PPI was not needed and Santander did 
not properly assess the situation. 
This complaint now comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. Weve 
set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding this case. It seems to me that the relevant considerations 
in this case are materially the same as those set out on our website. And the main questions 
I need to consider are: - If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure 
the product it recommended was suitable for the customers needs? - Did Santander give 
the customers the information they needed to decide whether to take out the policy? If there 
was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr K and 
the estates of the late Mrs K and Mr K are worse off as a result. That is, would they have 
done something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any 
problems with the sale? Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive set out my 
reasons below
Mr K and his now late parents took out a joint mortgage, so Mr K wouldve been liable to 
meet the mortgage repayments in full, if his parents werent able to meet their share and vice 
versa. 
The PPI policy was taken out in Mr Ks name only.
Santander has accepted this was an advised sale, so I have proceeded on that basis. This 
means that Santander had to consider whether the policy was suitable for the customers 
needs before recommending it. Santander also had to draw the main
features of the policy to the customers attention and provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that they could make an informed decision about whether to buy PPI.
Mr K accepts the policy was affordable, but, in his view, it wasnt necessary because his 
contribution towards the monthly repayment was so low that having insurance wasnt worth 
it. Had a successful claim been made on the policy, it would have covered the full monthly 
repayment. I understand the policy would have provided around £200 per month of cover. Mr 
K and the late Mrs and Mr K may have come to their own arrangements as to who paid what 
in respect of the monthly mortgage repayments, however, as they were each jointly and 
severally liable, if one of them couldnt pay their contribution that month, the others would 
have been liable. So, I cant see that the amount of the premium (£13.90) made the policy 
unsuitable based on the level of protection provided overall. Although the PPI policy covered 
Mr K only, as this was a joint mortgage, I have taken into account all their circumstances at 
the time of sale. 
Ive considered whether Santander made it clear that taking the policy was optional. Given 
the length of time since the sale, there is very limited information available for me to safely 
conclude that the policy was not presented as optional. So, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint on that basis either.
Mr K was eligible for the cover, given the policys terms and conditions. He would have 
received some work-related benefits, if he couldnt work due to sickness or accident. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to his occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, 
potentially for longer. Having the policy would mean Mr K could use his occupational benefits 
to pay for other expenses. I dont know if Mrs and Mr K were working. The late Mr K was in 
his mid-sixties, so likely was ineligible for cover. Mr K wasnt affected by any of the 
conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people 
or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As Mr K could have benefited from the full 
extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations. I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly 
communicated to   Mr K before he agreed to buy PPI. But Mr K appears to have taken out 
the policy knowing there would be an additional cost for the cover. It seems the policy was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So, I think it unlikely the customers would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided. Its 
possible the information Santander gave them about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr K wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively priced. So, I think it unlikely they would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would 
still have taken out the policy
Mr K mentions not using the cover. However, this wouldnt have been known at the time the 
PPI was taken out, so this doesnt change my view. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and the 
estates of the late Mrs K and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman