DRN-4504992
The complaint
Mr D complains about NewDay Ltd making several service errors and unfairly applying a 
marker to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) when he complained.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 14 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 28 November 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr D complains about NewDay Ltd making several service errors and unfairly applying a 
marker to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) when he complained.
What happened
NewDay were changing the credit card partnership from Company A to Company B and, in
August 2022, they sent Mr D an update. Mr D received an alert from NewDay, on their on-
line portal, informing him that an email was waiting for him in his account mailbox.
However, Mr D couldnt access this on either the NewDay app or website, so he made
multiple calls between 16 August and 20 August 2022. Mr D says a NewDay agent 
explained what the message was about, and he made a request for a letter to be posted to 
him.
Mr D is dissatisfied that he didnt receive this letter until 29 September 2022. In addition, Mr 
D complained about the following:
He feels an agent gave him on incorrect reward point information, saying he needed 
10000 points rather than 1000 points to earn £10
He believes his credit score has decreased due to NewDay unfairly notifying CRAs with 
query markers
He is dissatisfied that refunds and compensation payments didnt reduce his direct debit 
payment
His complaints have been bundled together under one reference
NewDay explained a technical problem had occurred and apologised for Mr D being unable
to access their email. They also apologised for giving incorrect reward points information and
offered Mr D £55 compensation. This compensation amount was later increased to £100.
Regarding the credit score issue, NewDay said when a customer has an ongoing complaint
with us we report that the customer has a 'query' with us and a query marker is classed as 
neutral. And they told Mr D he would need to discuss this with the CRAs.
Mr D complained to our service and our investigator said NewDay should remove the query 
markers and increase their compensation to £350.
Mr D accepted this. However, NewDay disagreed and continued to apply markers. So, this 
complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also upholding this complaint, but I require NewDay to increase the 
amount of compensation and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems, services,
procedures or processes including reporting. I say this because we arent the regulator of the
financial services industry. Also, its not for this service to assess whether NewDay have
breached the Equality Act 2010, as thats an issue for the courts.
Furthermore, as explained by our investigator, there are rules (known as DISP Rules) laid
down by the Financial Conduct Authority which means complaint handling is not a regulated
activity. So, specific complaints about how NewDay manage complaints, including how Mr
Ds complaints were bundled together under one reference cant be considered by our
service.
However, what we can do is consider each individual case and, where we think a business
hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be 
done to put right any financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. So, 
we can ask a business to pay a proportionate level of redress.
NewDay accept they made some errors here. They have apologised and offered redress for
the difficulties Mr D experienced accessing their email / letter and confirming reward points.
So, I first considered a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for these two errors.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest.
From reviewing the file Im persuaded that Mr D couldnt access NewDays letter, which
contained important information, without receiving a hard copy. So, although Mr D received a
summary of the contents, I can understand his request for a copy of the letter. Also, his
anxiety, frustration and disappointment in having to wait approximately 5 weeks to receive it
and subsequent discovery that it wasnt addressed properly. So, considering this and Mr Ds
time and trouble in requesting the letter, I think £100 is a fair and reasonable amount of
compensation.
Regarding the incorrect reward points information from a NewDay representative, Im not
persuaded that this had a high impact on Mr D. But I can see how this caused Mr D 
additional frustration and a loss of confidence. So, I think NewDay should pay Mr D an 
additional £50 compensation.
I then looked closely at NewDays reporting of query markers, to see if it was fair and 
reasonable for them to do so and whether the query markers had a detrimental impact upon 
Mr Ds credit score.
As mentioned above, I cant tell NewDay what they should and shouldnt report. However, I
cant see that it was fair and reasonable for them to make reports to the CRAs. This is
because there was no dispute, merchant or payment issue, so I also cant see how theraising of complaints about NewDays service fits with the following definition that NewDay
say guided their action:
Where a query exists on an account, for example, a merchandise complaint or a
dispute over a defaulted account, the record should be flagged with the letter 'Q' and a
status of U or eight as appropriate for the term of the query.
Due to reporting by other businesses, I agree it isnt possible to say that NewDays actions
have directly impacted upon Mr D. However, as I consider this to be an error, Im going to 
ask NewDay to reverse their reporting here.
As I dont think NewDay have treated Mr D fairly, I then further considered the impact of their
action in order to assess a fair level of compensation for this error. From reviewing Mr Ds
submissions Im persuaded this reporting caused Mr D a high level of inconvenience and
distress over a number of months. Also, Im persuaded that this issue, together with the 
other strands of his complaints, caused him considerable anxiety and his insomnia and other
medical conditions to flare up.
In addition, I found that NewDay aggravated Mr Ds distress. They incorrectly advised him
that a fraud marker was present on his account rather than the above-mentioned query
marker and then, having said they would lift the marker, they reapplied it. So, considering the
aggravated distress together with the time and trouble NewDay caused Mr D, I think a fair
and reasonable amount of compensation is £300.
Finally, I considered whether it was fair and reasonable of NewDay not to adjust Mr Ds
direct debit payment in light of their refunds and compensation payments. Having looked at 
NewDays terms and conditions, I cant see that Mr D would know that either refunds or 
compensation wouldnt count towards monthly payments. And considering some of the 
examples Mr D has given, including where he paid more than the minimum balance, yet his
direct debit wasnt collected, I can understand why Mr D feels NewDay have been 
inconsistent and unfair here. So, although I again cant instruct NewDay on this matter, I 
think they should also compensate Mr D and I think £50 is a fair and reasonable amount.
So, having considered all the above, I require NewDay to remove the CRA query markers
and pay Mr D £500. The compensation breakdown for the five complaints strands is as
follows:
1. Letter technical issue and delay in posting - £100
2. Agent mis-advice on reward points - £50
3. Application of query markers - £300
4. Refunds and compensation payments not impacting on Mr Ds direct debit payment - £50
5. Complaints bundled together under one reference  no compensation
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require NewDay Ltd to remove the query markers and pay Mr D £500 compensation less
any amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 28 November
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave Mr D and NewDay the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider, before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Both Mr D and NewDay agreed to my provisional decision.
So, having reconsidered everything including the responses received, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision, which I adopt in full as part of this final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require NewDay Ltd to remove the query 
markers and pay Mr D £500 compensation less any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman