DRN-4000265
The complaint
Miss G and Mr Y are complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made 
on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022 Miss G and Mr Y contacted Aviva to say their property had been damaged 
after a period of heavy rain. Aviva reviewed the claim, but declined it as it believed the 
damage occurred in a similar incident in July 2021. It said Miss G and Mr Y had looked to 
claim for similar damage in the same area at that time, but that claim had been declined 
because they didnt have buildings insurance at the time of loss. However, it said it would 
reconsider the claim if Miss G and Mr Y could evidence theyd got the previous damage 
repaired.
Miss G and Mr Y didnt agree with Aviva as they said the damage at the time was minimal so 
wasnt worth fixing. They maintained that the damage to the property theyre claiming for 
occurred during the storm in question. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought it was fair for Aviva to think that 
it was most likely that the damage Miss G and Mr Y were claiming for occurred in July 2021.
Miss G and Mr Y didnt agree with the investigator. They maintained that the only issue that 
needed fixing at that time was damage to the guttering, which they resolved. They said the 
situation in August 2022 was entirely different as it arose from a genuine emergency where 
they said their roof drainage system was overwhelmed by a storm causing the entire ceiling 
to fall down as a result. However, they said that in July 2021, there was only a small 
overflow. They didnt think it was fair that Aviva said they needed to provide photos of the 
previous damage, as it wasnt reasonable for them to have such photos.
As Miss G and Mr Y didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
Aviva doesnt believe the damage Miss G and Mr Y are claiming for occurred in the incident 
in August 2022, as it believes it arises from the storm in July 2021. I dont think it was unfair 
for it to say as such and Ill now explain why.
Miss G and Mr Y say there was minimal damage in July 2021, so they said there wasnt 
anything to fix. But this is in contrast to what they reported at the time. They reported the 
following to Aviva:
Water has entered the flat somehow, possibly through the gutters during the storm. Large 
stains on the ceiling and wallpaper surrounding the windows, and our flooring has bowed 
under the damp area. Would like to get the flooring repaired and damaged areas 
redecorated.
So they reported that there were large areas of damage from the incident in July 2021 and 
they also confirmed they hadnt carried out any repairs to the damage. Ive reviewed the 
photographs provided of the damage as it was in August 2022 and theyre largely consistent 
with what they reported in July 2021. I also dont believe the damage is consistent with water 
ingress that had just happened. There is significant and extensive staining which I believe is 
consistent with water ingress over a period of time and is likely to have been present and 
developing for a while  i.e. is not sudden and expected as is required to be covered under 
the terms of the insurance policy.
Ultimately, taking everything into consideration, I dont think Avivas decision to not cover the 
claim was unfair in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman