DRN-3452837
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited handled his request for a 
final settlement figure for a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a new car. In 
September 2021, Mr B decided he wanted to sell his car, so he asked BMW for a settlement 
figure before doing this. BMW sent Mr B a letter in September 2021 with the settlement 
figure and the letter explained the figure was valid for settlement until 21 October 2021
Mr B says the letter also explained any monthly repayments that were due within the 
following five days would still be paid  so it advised Mr B not to cancel his direct debit. Mr B 
then sold his car but was told by BMW that his October 2021 monthly repayment would still 
be owed  this was for £525.53  so this was paid.
Mr B was then contacted the following day by BMW and was told that what hed been told 
about the October 2021 monthly repayment still being due was incorrect. So, Mr B said he 
was advised by BMW to make a direct debit indemnity claim with his bank to get the £525.53 
back. Mr B then received a refund for this amount from his bank. But without Mr Bs 
knowledge, BMW also issued him with a refund for the same amount - £525.53. As a result, 
this led to the account going into arrears. 
BMW wrote to Mr B to let him know hed been overpaid and as hed already received 
£525.53 from his bank, he needed to repay the £525.53 BMW paid him. Mr B says he 
doesnt have the money to repay the £525.53 and that he spent it already  Mr B said he 
didnt check his bank statements so didnt realise hed been given the extra refund. Mr B 
says he wants compensation which is equal to this amount as well as £100 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience caused to him.
In addition to this, Mr B says he was sent a Notice of Sum in Arrears (NOSIA) letting him 
know the account was in arrears. Mr B contacted BMW on 1 December 2021 and was told 
no action would be taken for the arrears while his complaint was ongoing. But he continued 
to receive communication from BMW regarding the outstanding amount. So, Mr B doesnt 
feel hes been treated fairly.
BMW say the settlement figure had already included the October 2021 monthly repayment of 
£525.53. However, as Mr B paid the October 2021 monthly repayment, it then left BMW with 
an overpayment of £525.53. BMW say this was why Mr B was advised to raise an indemnity 
claim with his bank in an attempt to recover this amount.
BMW say since they told Mr B this, they refunded the £525.53 to Mr Bs bank account on 1 
November 2021. However, BMW say Mr Bs bank then took out the £525.53 following the 
indemnity claim and that this wasnt something they could see in process until it had been 
debited  because this was a process generated through the bank. As Mr B received a 
refund twice of £525.53, they asked Mr B to repay one amount back of £525.53. BMW 
confirmed the agreement was terminated and also acknowledged what Mr B said about not 
being able to afford to repay the amount theyre asking for. So, they advised Mr B to get in 
touch with them to arrange a payment plan. BMW said they wouldnt offer Mr B 
compensation as they didnt think there was any incorrect actions from them. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. After having looked at all the information 
provided, she felt the October 2021 monthly repayment was included in the settlement 
amount and Mr B received a refund of this amount twice  so she said Mr B still owed BMW 
£525.53.
However, our Investigator felt BMW likely did give Mr B the wrong information about making 
a direct debit indemnity claim, given they were also processing a refund to Mr B for the same 
amount. Our Investigator also recognised BMW told Mr B no action would be taken while his 
complaint was being looked into but was later told recovery action wouldnt stop irrespective 
of his complaint being investigated. Overall, our Investigator thought BMW should pay Mr B 
£50 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced because of the misinformation he 
received on both occasions.
BMW accepted our Investigators view. But Mr B didnt. In summary, he said he didnt feel 
£50 fairly compensated him for the wrong information BMW told him on two occasions. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he was given the wrong information about the October 
2021 monthly repayment still being due, despite being given a final settlement figure. And 
that he was given the wrong advice by BMW in order to get a refund of the overpayment. As 
a result, Mr B doesnt feel he should repay BMW the additional refund of £525.53 that he 
received.
Having looked at the settlement quote letter Mr B was sent on 23 September 2021; I can see 
it explained the settlement quote was valid until 21 October 2021 (the settlement date). It 
then went on to explain the way in which a settlement figure is calculated is that itll take into 
account any monthly repayments that were due within the quotation period up to and 
including the settlement date  which for Mr B the quotation period was 23 September 2021 
to 21 October 2021.
I can see Mr B made his monthly repayments by direct debit on the 21st of each month. And I 
can see from the evidence provided by BMW that Mr B paid a monthly repayment on 21 
October 2021  which was the same day as the settlement date. However, BMWs internal 
notes show Mr B contacted them on 20 October 2021 to check theyd received the 
settlement amount and he was told his monthly repayment was still due on 21 October 2021. 
According to the letter Mr B received on 23 September 2021, it explained the settlement 
figure had taken into account any repayments due within the quotation period. As Mr Bs 
October 2021 monthly repayment was due on the settlement date, I think its likely that the 
settlement quote Mr B was given took into account this repayment. Therefore, Im persuaded 
BMW gave Mr B the incorrect information about the October 2021 monthly repayment still 
being due when he spoke to them on 20 October 2021. 
With that in mind, Ive then gone on to consider what happened next. BMWs internal system 
note on 22 October 2021 says that a refund for the October 2021 monthly repayment of 
£525.53 had already been processed, but that Mr B hadnt been informed of this. The note 
then goes on to explain that Mr B will request a refund of the payment from his bank instead 
of waiting for BMW to process the refund. I note Mr B has said on more than one occasion that he only raised an indemnity claim with his bank as a result of being given this advice 
from BMW. 
Having looked at BMWs internal notes, they dont say this advice was given by BMW. 
However, BMW acknowledged in their final response letter that Mr B was advised to raise an 
indemnity claim on 22 October 2021  which is consistent with what Mr B has told us. 
Therefore, I think on balance, Mr B raised an indemnity claim with his bank as a result of 
BMWs advice to do so. And its not clear to me why Mr B was advised to raise an indemnity 
claim with his bank given BMW were aware a refund had been processed by them. With that 
said, I dont think Mr B would have received two payments of £525.53 had it not been for 
BMWs advice. And I think BMW ought to have explained in more detail to Mr B what he was 
due to expect from BMW processing his refund.
In any case, as previously mentioned, Mr B received two refund amounts of £525.53 - one 
from his bank (as a result of the direct debit indemnity claim) and the other from BMW (as a 
result of them processing a refund). Given Mr B was only due a refund of just £525.53, 
rather than two refunds of this amount, I think its fair for Mr B to repay £525.53 to BMW. I 
say this because Mr B had overpaid by just £525.53 (which was the October 2021 monthly 
repayment) rather than £1,050.46  which is what he received as a result of the two refunds. 
I note Mr B said he spent this amount and that he cant afford to repay the £525.53. But I 
think BMWs offer to arrange a payment plan for this amount seems fair.
Ive also looked into what Mr B was told about being chased for the £525.53 despite BMW 
confirming no further action would be taken while his complaint was ongoing. I can see from 
the notes that BMW confirmed to Mr B on 9 November 2021 that the account was settled 
and nothing more was owing under the agreement  a follow up letter was also sent 
confirming this to Mr B. However, further calls were made by Mr B after this where he let 
BMW know he was still receiving letters from them to say there was arrears on the account. 
Mr B then contacted BMW again on 1 December 2021 to let them know hed received a 
NOSIA and this was when BMW confirmed no action would be taken while his complaint 
was ongoing. But Mr B kept being chased for the arrears even though he was given the 
impression the account was settled. I can appreciate this would have been worrying for Mr B 
given he was told he no longer had any obligations under the agreement on 8 November 
2021.
Overall, I think BMW caused some confusion when they told Mr B that his October 2021 
monthly repayment was still owing despite it being likely this amount was already considered 
when the final settlement quote was sent out. And I think BMW gave Mr B some conflicting 
information about the status of the account. While I appreciate Mr B says he spent the 
money he received from the two refunds as he didnt realise hed been given the extra 
refund from BMW, I dont think theres been significant detriment to Mr B as a result of BMW 
giving him the incorrect information. Although, I can appreciate Mr B has been caused 
inconvenience as a result of BMWs error, so I agree with our Investigator that BMW should 
pay Mr B £50 compensation.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to pay Mr B £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman