DRN-3348845
The complaint
Mrs M complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc has unfairly calculated the settlement of her
insurance claim.
What happened
Several years ago, Mrs Ms house suffered from subsidence and St Andrews was the
insurer responsible for the claim. Mrs M brought a complaint to this service regarding the
poor quality of repairs which had led to her being unable to run her business  she is a
childminder and she said that she was unable to look after children that fall into the early
years category as she failed an inspection due to the outstanding work in her property.
I issued a final decision on that complaint in September 2020. Part of the outcome of that
decision was for St Andrews to pay for her loss of earnings from December 2018 until her
home was considered suitable to enable her to recommence offering her full childminding
services. This was to be paid upon suitable evidence being provided by Mrs M.
St Andrews looked at Mrs Ms tax returns for the year prior to December 2018 (2017-2018)
and the two following years. And it paid Mrs M the difference in turnover, after removing an
amount for taxes, from these two years, using the 2017-2018 as her expected income. St
Andrews said it wouldnt pay Mrs M for the period when the UK was in lockdown as this
would be an assumption of her salary and not guaranteed during this time. It also paid Mrs M
an amount of £232 per week for a period from mid-June 2020 until the date my decision was
issued. It said that, as it had offered a cash settlement to Mrs M for her to complete the
repairs, the timeframe for completion was outside its control and so it wouldnt pay beyond
this date. The total payment made was over £15,000.00.
Mrs M was unhappy with the amount of the settlement and so she complained to St
Andrews and brought the complaint to this service. She said that prior to stopping her
childminding services she had been caring for three children in her home and she charged
£35 per child, per day. She calculated that her losses from December 2018 until the time she
brought the complaint to our services in October 2020, were in excess of £50,000. She said 
that the parents of the children she looked after were key workers and that means she would
still have been able to look after the children during the lockdown. And she was unhappy that
St Andrews wasnt making any offer of payment past the date of the final decision.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think St Andrews needed to do anything
more. As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 17 February 2022 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said;
Mrs M has raised a number of points throughout the time this complaint has been with our
service. I can appreciate her strength of feeling on this matter. As explained to Mrs M in my
previous decision, we are an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative
to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be
the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs M. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service,
its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly. Ive
taken these rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has supplied copies of her tax returns for the period from 2017 to St Andrews. St
Andrews has looked at her declared annual turnover and then paid the difference between
the turnover achieved in the tax year prior to December 2018 and those in her subsequent
returns in order to take into consideration what she has lost, removing an amount for tax and
National Insurance. Mrs M has said that she was earning more than this from early years
childcare when she had to stop.
Using Mrs Ms calculations, her turnover would have been £27,000 per year for her early
years childminding services. Mrs M has provided bank statements which she says shows
she was receiving this sum. Having looked at these statements, the amounts are not clear in
showing that she received £700 per child each month on a consistent basis, which is what
she would be getting based on her figures. But in any event, her declared annual turnover
for the tax year 2017-2018 shows that she received just under £25,000 for her services in
that year  which is not that far from the amount Mrs M says she would receive in a year. Im
also of the opinion that annual tax declarations detailing the turnover of a business are likely
to be the most accurate measure of payment for services received. I therefore dont think it
was unreasonable for St Andrews to use this as the basis for its calculations.
The turnover as given in her tax returns should show what she is receiving for her services
each year. And so, Im persuaded that it is reasonable for St Andrews to have used details
of her turnover from the tax year prior to December 2018 to calculate her expected income 
as this was before her business had been impacted by the damage to her home. St
Andrews has made deductions from her turnover for relevant taxes she would have had to
pay. This is important as whilst her tax return shows what Mrs M may have received as
payment for her services, this is not what she would have received in income. As with all
businesses, she would then have had to pay tax on what she received. And Ive noted St
Andrews hasnt deducted any amounts for expenses she would have incurred  such as
food expenses for the children and any other outlays for running her business  such costs
would reduce the amount she would then receive in actual earnings. So, I dont think it has
been unfair in making deductions from her turnover to work out her earnings.
Im also aware that Mrs M was able to provide wrap-around services  which involved
taking care of children before and after school. Some of her annual turnover following the
inspection date may have been as a result of this wrap-around service. Mrs M has told us
this service wasnt affected by the inspection and so she was able to provide this care. It
may be that Mrs M increased her wrap-around services during this time in order to make up
for the losses from the early years childcare. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect
St Andrews to ignore this when calculating its payment  this still forms part of Mrs Ms
overall income within the relevant period. Im satisfied that paying the difference between the
turnover from 2017-2018 and the following two years, less appropriate tax deductions, is a
fair way to calculate her loss of earnings.
St Andrews hasnt included any payment for loss of income during the time that the UK was
placed in what has become commonly known as lockdown. This was a period between 1
April 2020 and 23 June 2020 when there were many restrictions placed on people living in
the UK, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And a large number of businesses were
forced to stop operating. Mrs M thinks St Andrews should include this period as the parents
of the children she looked after were key workers, who were required to work throughout this
time, and this meant she could continue to operate. She has provided emails, which shesays are from the parents, confirming they would have used her services during the
pandemic.
Im aware childcare services were allowed to continue in certain circumstances during the
lockdown period. So, I understand that Mrs M may have been able to work during this time.
However, Im also aware Mrs M emailed our service in April 2020 and advised that she had
ceased taking children into her care as of 20 March 2020 as part of the nations efforts to
stop Covid-19. I appreciate why she made this choice based on the unprecedented situation
at that time. However, on the basis she has told us her clients were key workers, she could
have continued to provide these services. I have to consider this was her choice and, based
on her comments, I think it is likely that even if she was able to provide the early years
services which are the subject of this complaint, she would have stopped this work too, in
order to help prevent the spread of Covid-19.
I must also take into account this was an unprecedented time which impacted many people
in different ways. Whilst Ive noted the statements from the parents saying they would have
still used her service, I cannot say with any certainty that her business wouldnt have been
impacted by the pandemic. In addition, a number of other industries, such as the building
industry, were impacted by the lockdown and couldnt continue. I do need to take into
consideration that the repairs to her home would likely have been impacted by this too and
so it would be unfair of me to say that any delay in dealing with this matter during this time
solely lies with St Andrews. Im therefore not asking St Andrews to pay for the loss of
earnings during that time.
Ive also looked at the payment offered for the period from June 2020 until September 2020,
which has been calculated at a sum of £232 per week. The amount St Andrews calculated
as lost income in the previous year is for less than this sum, when averaged over 52 weeks
of a calendar year. So, it would appear that for these 14 weeks St Andrews has paid more
than the average weekly losses from the previous year. Based on this I think St Andrews
payment calculation for this time period seems reasonable.
The previous final decision stated St Andrews had to pay the loss of income until repairs on
Mrs Ms home were completed and she was no longer prevented from doing her early years
work. St Andrews has paid Mrs M for the loss of income up until the date of the previous
final decision as it says she was given a cash settlement to enable her to complete repairs.
Mrs M says she should be paid until the time the repairs were completed.
An ombudsmans decision is legally binding and if Mrs M feels that St Andrews have not
complied with the decision then she can choose to enforce this through the courts system.
So, I cannot make a finding on whether St Andrews is right to stop payment at the point it
has.
However, it may help Mrs M to know that it is commonplace for most, if not all, home
insurance policies to entitle the insurer to settle claims in several different ways  including
the option to provide a cash settlement to enable the repairs to be completed by the policy
holder. By doing this, the insurer will normally be considered as having discharged its liability
for the completion of the works, which would then become the responsibility of the policy
holder. I hope this information is useful.
In conclusion, I appreciate that this decision will be disappointing for Mrs M and I understand
that she may feel she should be entitled to more. And Im in no doubt that this has been a
very difficult time for her. But when considering the information supplied, Im satisfied that St
Andrews has reasonably calculated her loss of earnings.St Andrews responded and said it had no further comments. Mrs M also replied and 
confirmed she disagreed with the outcome and that she is entitled to loss of earnings during 
the lockdown period and from September 2020 until December 2020. Ive summarised below 
what she has said:
As she didnt have any children under 5 years old in her care prior to the lockdown, 
she was in a position to help stop the spread of Covid-19. However, if her property 
hadnt been affected it would have been business as usual for the key workers and 
she would have been working.
In relation to there not being a clear payment of £700 from each parent, the payment 
was made up of employers voucher schemes and funding. And some of the 
balances paid by the parents would be shared between them.
She didnt accept a cash settlement, this was forced. And St Andrews agreed to 
reimburse the loss of earnings from September 2020 onwards. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought about the points Mrs M has raised in response to the provisional decision, 
however, these dont alter my opinion.
In relation to the lockdown period, Mrs M says she was in a position to cease her services 
due to not being able to have young children in her home - but if the damage hadnt 
happened, she would have continued to provide this care. I appreciate her comments, but I 
cannot ignore the fact she told us in April 2020 that she had stopped providing all her 
services to help stop Covid-19. So, it would appear she chose to stop working even though 
her income was already impacted by the lack of early years childcare services. Im 
persuaded that, as Mrs M was prepared to stop providing the limited services she could at 
this time even though this would have had an impact on her earnings, she would also have 
made this choice regardless of the situation with her home.
Further to this, as I explained in the provisional decision, the lockdown period was an 
unprecedented time and many industries were impacted by the pandemic in relation to the 
restrictions on what work was allowed to continue. So, I cannot say for certain that delays in 
completing the repairs during this time were solely the fault of St Andrews  I dont think it 
would be fair to make it pay for loss of earnings during that time.
Mrs M has commented that the payments she received for the children was split between 
funding and vouchers and that some parents then split their portion of the payments 
between themselves. This is why there isnt one clear payment for each child. Im aware that 
childcare services can be funded by different means, including vouchers. But Mrs M would 
still have needed to declare any income she received, regardless of whether this came from 
vouchers or direct payment from the parents. So, Im still of the opinion that the turnover she 
declared on her tax returns would be an accurate starting point to calculate any loss of 
income, based on what she received prior to the claim and the subsequent damage to her 
home. 
Ive noted Mrs Ms further comments regarding the cash settlement issue and why she thinks 
she is entitled to payment of her loss of earnings after this date. As explained, if Mrs M feels 
that St Andrews has not complied with the previous decision, she can choose to enforce this 
through the court system. Im sorry I cannot help further with this aspect. Im also aware of Mrs Ms comments regarding requests for clarification on the way the 
settlement should be calculated she sent to our service following the previous final decision. 
I appreciate that she would have liked this detail to have been provided at that point, 
however, a final decision represents our final comments on a complaint  so this type of 
detail couldnt have been provided. Im aware that Mrs M was informed that, if she was 
unhappy with the settlement amount offered that she could bring a further complaint to this 
service  as she has done. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that St Andrews has reasonably calculated 
Mrs Ms loss of earnings and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman