DRN-3377617
The complaint
Ms Rs complained that Clarkewood Limited have chased her for payment of a success fee 
in relation to recovering mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  but she doesnt 
believe she ever instructed them.
What happened
In mid-2021, Ms R was being contacted daily by debt collectors acting on behalf of 
Clarkewood, demanding payment of a fee for recovering PPI on her behalf.  Ms R was very 
worried and found the debt collectors threatening  not only in the frequency of contact, but 
also in threatening to seize her possessions to satisfy the debt and costs as a result of court 
proceedings she knew nothing about.
Ms R wrote to Clarkewood complaining about their agents actions and asking them to 
provide her with evidence shed instructed them to recover PPI on her behalf.   She didnt 
get any response.  So she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator contacted Clarkewood for their comments and any business file they had for 
Ms R.  Despite chasing the matter up, she received no response.  So she based her 
conclusions on the information provided by Ms R.
In the absence of any testimony to contradict what Ms R had told her, the investigator 
concluded Clarkewood didnt act fairly in pursuing Ms R for payment of the debt.  To resolve 
the complaint, she thought Clarkewood should stop all its collection activity  and should 
instruct its agents to do the same.  And she said they should pay Ms R £100 compensation 
for the upset they and their agents had caused in pursuing the debt without evidence Ms R 
owed them anything.
Neither party responded to the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive not seen any information from Clarkewood.  So Ive had to base 
my decision solely on the information provided by Ms R.  Ive no reason to doubt anything 
shes told us.
Ms Rs clearly been shaken by being pursued by the debt collectors appointed by 
Clarkewood.  Thats understandable because she doesnt think she owes Clarkewood any 
money.  
Ms R hasnt provided any documentation from Clarkewood.  But, if she didnt instruct them, I 
wouldnt expect her to have any.  In the absence of evidence from Clarkewood about the fee 
they say theyre due, the only conclusion I can draw is that Ms R doesnt owe them anything. 
Putting things right
On the basis of that conclusion, I agree with our investigator that Clarkewood should stop 
pursuing Ms R for any payment.  And they should instruct the debt collectors to do the same.
And I agree with our investigator that Ms R should be compensated for the distress shes 
clearly been caused by being pursued for payment.  So I think Clarkewood should pay her 
£100 compensation for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint about Clarkewood Limited 
and directing them to:
cease all debt collection activity against Ms R.  And instruct the debt collector theyd 
appointed  and any other agents  to do the same;
pay Ms R £100 compensation for the distress pursuing an unsubstantiated debt has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman