DRN-2395506
The complaint
Mr B complains that EUI Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy and then issued a 
default which was registered with the credit reference agencies. 
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with EUI. It cancelled his policy within two months as it said Mr Bs 
direct debit for his premium payments hadnt been set up. It then requested payment of a 
balance outstanding, including a cancellation fee of £49.50. This wasnt paid, so EUI 
registered the default with the credit reference agencies. Mr B complained that he hadnt 
been warned that the default would be registered, and he thought EUIs cancellation fee was 
unjustified.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought EUIs 
welcome pack had set out the direct debit requirements and the cancellation fee. He thought 
EUI had given Mr B enough time to correct the direct debit payments before it cancelled the 
policy in keeping with its terms and conditions.
Mr B replied that he wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint, so its come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its 
business terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that when Mr B first took out his policy he paid a deposit and provided information 
for EUI to set up a direct debit for the remaining premiums. EUI sent him its welcome email 
to set up his account and view his policy documents. These included a Credit Agreement. 
This explained that any defaults would be reported to the credit reference agencies. And it 
said that an administration fee of £49.50 would be charged in the event of cancellation.
So I think EUI made it clear at the start what its charges would be and the consequences of 
missed premium payments. 
EUI was unable to set up the direct debit with the information Mr B had provided. It wrote to 
him twice to ask him to contact it. I cant see that Mr B denies receiving these letters. I can 
see that they were sent to the correct address. But he didnt respond. 
So EUI wrote again to tell him that the credit agreement was cancelled and requesting full 
payment, or it would cancel his policy with 14 days notice. This letter also included a default 
notice warning that it would demand the money owed and a default would stay on Mr Bs 
credit file for six years. 
Mr B didnt respond and so EUI cancelled his policy and requested payment of the 
outstanding balance. I think it did this after giving the required notice. I can see that this 
outstanding balance was for his time on cover, which I think was reasonable as the insurer 
had been at risk, and a cancellation charge. 
Mr B thought the cancellation charge of £49.50 was excessive. But I disagree. I think its in 
keeping with other brokers cancellation charges and I cant see that the insurer also applied 
a cancellation charge. So I think it was a reasonable charge for its administration costs. The 
charge was clearly set out in EUIs credit agreement. And so I think it's entitled to apply it. 
So I think EUI acted within its terms of business and fairly and reasonably when it cancelled 
the policy for non-payment. As there was a balance outstanding, I think EUI was entitled to 
ask for its payment and I think it gave Mr B sufficient time to do this. Mr B didnt respond, so I 
think EUI was entitled to issue a default notice and then to record the default with the credit 
reference agencies, as Mr B had been warned. So I can say that EUI has done anything 
wrong or needs to remove the default marker or pay Mr B any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman