DRN-2835103
The complaint
 H complains about its insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). Its complaint relates to the 
rejection of a claim under its commercial property insurance policy for ingress of water into 
one of its buildings. 
Aviva uses agents to administer and assess claims. References to Aviva include these 
agents.
What happened
H made a claim for damage caused by water ingress through the roof of one of its buildings. 
The building was occupied by a tenant, who noticed water coming through the ceiling. At the 
time, H had builders on site carrying out separate works. The builders looked at the 
damaged roof and noticed a ball lodged in a rainwater downpipe. The roof was of flat roof 
construction and the downpipe was the route through which water drained from the roof. 
It was not clear how long the ball had been lodged in the downpipe before the water ingress 
became apparent. When inspecting the roof, the builders saw a large amount of standing 
water that had not been able to drain. The weight of the standing water caused one part of 
the roof to sag and led to the ingress of water. The builders found that the joists supporting 
the roof had sagged, which in turn led to more water collecting. In the circumstances H 
decided to replace the flat roof with a pitched roof to provide a more substantial roof and 
reduce the risk of future incidents of the same type.
Aviva appointed a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor concluded that the damage 
to the internal part of the building would be covered, but that to the roof wouldnt as it was 
caused by age and by wear and tear. From description of the damage and photographs 
provided by H, the surveyor concluded the degree of sagging was consistent with gradual 
deterioration of the roof over time. There was evidence of pre-existing ponding (pools of 
water) on the roof. The surveyor also considered there was evidence of cracking along the 
edges of the roof, indicating that it had reached (or was reaching) the end of its life. The 
surveyor concluded that heavy rain would have highlighted those existing defects, rather 
than being the cause.
 
H was unhappy at the rejection of its claim and complained to Aviva. As part of its response 
Aviva asked H to appoint a different surveyor to consider the original evidence and 
photographs and conclude as to the cause of the ingress of water, the age and condition of 
the roof generally and the cause of the observed areas of ponding and dry areas of the roof. 
H declined to do so because of the cost involved, and that previous requests to Aviva to 
inspect the roof had been rejected. Aviva maintained its initial decision to reject the claim.
H then complained to this service. The main issue was that Aviva had assessed its claim for 
ingress of water rather than accidental damage caused by a blocked drain. H requested that 
Aviva should cover the costs of repair and renewal of the roof.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She concluded that the evidence from Aviva wasnt 
sufficient to show gradual deterioration and wasnt consistent with the evidence from Hs 
builder, therefore Aviva hadnt acted reasonably in declining the claim. The investigator said 
that Aviva should reimburse H for what it would have cost to have the flat roof repaired (at 
the rates of Hs contractor) based on the average of three quotations. 
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards H.
The main part of Hs complaint is that its claim should not have been rejected. Ive 
considered the evidence available, including the evidence from the builder, photographs of 
the roof, together with the view of Avivas surveyor.
Ive noted from Avivas case file that the claim was initially recorded as a storm claim, 
although Ive not seen any indication of storm conditions at the time of the incident. In any 
event, as Hs policy is an all risks policy, then the onus is not on H to show that there was an 
insured peril (event) that caused the loss, simply that damage occurred. Its clear that there 
was damage to the roof (and to the building interior) and there was ingress of water. So the 
onus is on Aviva to show that a policy exclusion applies in rejecting the claim. Ive noted that, 
in its response to our investigator, Aviva accepts this position.
So Ive gone on to consider the evidence available regarding the policy exclusion relied on 
by Aviva. Avivas surveyor has stated that in his professional opinion the extent of damage 
reported by Hs builders - specifically the extent of sagging of the joists - would not have 
been physically possible without the roof covering tearing and the joists themselves failing 
and leading to the collapse of the ceiling below. As neither event occurred then the surveyor 
concluded that the damage would have been caused by gradual deterioration of the roof that 
was pre-existing.
 
Ive considered this point, but Im not persuaded by it. It isnt disputed that there was ingress 
of water and that this led to damage within the building. But the fact remains that the roof, 
and the ceiling below, did not suffer a catastrophic collapse. Its clear from the photographs 
and video evidence that there was a considerable amount of standing water on the roof, 
which the builders swept off. That would be consistent with the blocked downpipe. The 
volume of water would have put pressure on the roof, sufficient to cause an ingress of water 
but not to lead to a catastrophic collapse. Had the roof been in such a poor condition, I think 
it may have led to a catastrophic collapse.
The surveyor also argues that the location of the water on the roof was in a location that 
wasnt consistent with its accumulation being caused by the blocked downpipe. The surveyor 
also drew attention to the condition of the roof in several respects that he thought apparent 
from the photographs and video of the water being cleared from the roof. Taking all these 
factors together the surveyor concluded that the ingress of water was the result of pre-exiting 
issues with the roof, and its gradual deterioration. Ive also noted Avivas view that the 
photographs of the pavilion roof indicate that the roof was nearing the end of its useful life, 
as evidenced by areas of ponding (pools of water collecting on the roof) amongst dry areas, 
as well as evidence of cracking in the roof.
Ive considered these points, but again Im not persuaded that, on the balance of 
probabilities, they persuade me that the roof was in such a poor condition. Ive not seen any 
clear evidence of significant pre-existing ponding, and no indication of previous ingress of 
water before the blocked downpipe. While Hs policy includes a requirement for regular inspection and maintenance for flat roofs, that only applies in respect of claims for damage 
caused by storms. As Ive noted, the damage wasnt caused by a storm. 
H have also said that it did carry out inspections of the roof at least once before the start of 
the season and to remove any accumulated leaves or other debris. Hs builders have also 
stated that they observed evidence on the roof of multiple layers of felt being applied, the 
most recent of which in their opinion would have been four to five years previously and that 
the roof looked fine.
 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded that on the balance of probabilities Aviva 
havent been able to show that it was fair to apply the exclusion for gradual deterioration to 
decline the claim for damage to the roof. So I dont think they acted fairly towards H.
 
Our investigator said that Aviva should reimburse H for what it would have cost to have the 
flat roof repaired (at the rates of Hs contractor) based on the average of three quotations 
(less any policy excess that would apply). I think thats a fair outcome. This reflects the fact 
that H had the roof replaced by its own contractor in the form of a gently pitched roof that 
would enable water to run off the roof and into gutters (rather than the previous drainage 
through a downpipe). As the new roof is not simply a repair of the original flat roof, theres an 
element of betterment. This means it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to simply reimburse H for 
the cost of the new roof.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Hs complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse H for what it would have cost to have the flat roof repaired (at the 
rates of Hs contractor) based on the average of three quotations (less any policy 
excess that would apply).
Pay simple interest of 8% on the reimbursed sum from the date H paid for the 
roof to be replaced to the date of settlement.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the sums within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
costs from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman