DRN-1296171
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the negative information recorded on her credit file by Argos 
Limited because of missed payments to her account.
What happened
Miss A opened an account on 12 October 2010. She explained that she looked at her credit 
report in August 2018 and discovered that there were late payment markers on her credit file 
relating to her repayments to Argos. Miss A said that she did not get the statements in the 
post from Argos, so she didnt know when she needed to make these payments. Miss A 
says that it isnt her fault that payments were late, and the late markers should be removed.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought that Argos had acted correctly by putting the markers on the credit file as it had 
made Miss A aware in the statements of the consequences of missing payments. Although 
Miss A said that she had asked for text and email notifications of when payments were due 
there was no evidence that she had explained the issues with her post to Argos at the time. 
He didnt think Argos had done anything wrong.
Miss A didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the repayments she had missed were 
very small and there was no reason why she wouldnt have made them if she had been 
made aware of them. Miss A said that since she had been getting text and email 
notifications, she hadnt missed a repayment.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information Miss A has provided, and Ive thought about what shes 
said. Although I sympathise with her, I cant say that Argos has done anything wrong.
Miss A was sent statements of her account which showed how much needed to be paid and 
when. These statements also explained that information would be reported to credit 
reference agencies if payments were not made on time. So, I think that Argos brought all of 
the relevant information to her attention in these statements.
Miss A explains that she didnt always get the statements, but I cant say that they werent 
sent. If Miss A didnt receive her statement or was having difficulty with her post, then I think 
it would have been reasonable for her to contact Argos to ask for a duplicate or ask for them 
to be sent in a different way. Miss A was aware when her statements usually came and had 
an idea that her payments were due at the beginning of the month.
Miss A missed a payment in February 2014 which was made in March 2014. A further 
payment was due in September 2015 which was paid in October 2015 and a payment was 
due in June 2016 which was paid in July 2016. Although these repayments were small, they 
were made late and it was Miss As responsibility to ensure they were paid on time.
I havent seen anything to confirm that Miss A made Argos aware that she wasnt getting her 
statements or that she asked to be notified via text or email. So, I cant say that Argos has 
done anything wrong by reporting these late repayments to the credit reference agencies 
and so I cant ask it to remove them. 
    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 
30 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman