DRN-3590055
The complaint
Mr K complains that Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS) took too long over his 
claim under his housing warranty insurance policy. And that they handled the claim poorly. 
He also complains about the way the surveys of the roof were carried out and the differing 
reports provided.
Mr K would like financial compensation for the time he spent liaising with AGCS to make the 
claim settlement acceptable to him. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them all again 
here, but I will provide a summary. 
Mr K had a housing warranty insurance policy with AGCS, as a leaseholder owner. I 
understand that the policy provided cover for different and separate groups of policyholders, 
including the leasehold owners of the residential units. And the freeholder of the building. 
AGCS said that although each leasehold was insured separately under the policy, each 
leasehold owners insurance under it was limited to their respective rights and interests, 
listed in their lease. They said that each leasehold owner could make a claim under the 
policy if their insured rights and interests were engaged.
I understand that Mr K submitted a claim under the policy in 2016 due to water ingress in his 
flat. Then during 2018, 2019 and 2020, the other leasehold owners reported additional water 
ingress. AGCS appointed a surveyor to investigate Mr Ks issues. A list of defects was 
produced. 
AGCS said that their investigations showed that the freeholder had retained the structure of 
the building under each of the individual leases. Therefore, they said that Mr K and his 
neighbours claims couldnt be made as leasehold owners, as they didnt have the rights and 
interests to address those areas of the building. Instead, AGCS were required to consider 
and resolve the claims with the freeholder. 
The freeholder eventually accepted a sum in full and final settlement of all matters relating to 
the claims.
Mr K said that AGCS obtained an initial survey using one surveyor, but then changed the 
surveyor as soon as his neighbours added their claims. He said that the second surveyor 
provided a survey value which was significantly less than the first surveyor's. Mr K didnt 
understand how it was possible for two such different surveys to have been produced. He 
said he asked the second surveyor to amend his survey to match the first surveyors. 
Mr K said he managed his neighbours claims as well as his own. He said that unless he 
chased AGVS, they took no action. 
Mr K acknowledged that as the claim related to a structural fault, it fell under the freeholders 
responsibility. So he was also in contact with the freeholder on the claim. He said that the 
freeholder only attended the site once and didnt know in detail what the problem with the 
building was. 
Mr K said that even though hed asked AGCS to change the Schedule of Works, the 
freeholder had signed off AGCSs Schedule without consulting him or his neighbours. He 
said this wasnt what hed agreed. He said hed been told that every party needed to be on 
the same page including the freeholder, the leaseholders and AGCS. He felt it was ridiculous 
that he and his neighbours had been kept out of the loop. Mr K also disputed the number of 
policy excesses that applied to the claims. He asked for compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the delay in progressing the claims had caused. 
AGCS issued their final response to the complaint on 9 December 2021. They didnt uphold 
it. They said that the policy expressly excluded compensation for any Indirect and/or 
Economic loss, including inconvenience or distress. They also said that they had to 
investigate the whole building to identify the root cause of each defect, rather than attempt to 
repair isolated areas. They said they understood Mr Ks frustration, but didnt agree that 
theyd caused the delays hed experienced. AGCS also said that the policy required a 
separate excess to be applied to each and every claim. 
Mr K didnt think that AGCS had explained why theyd downgraded the required work in their 
surveys. He was unhappy with their response. So brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that AGCS had needed 
to involve the freeholder to move the claim forward. And that the delays were out of their 
control. He said that any complaints regarding the roof were covered by the freeholders
Insurance. And that the freeholder was the only party able to raise a complaint about their 
policy. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that he and his neighbours were the victims in 
this case. He felt it was unbelievable that this service couldnt look at the freeholder claim. 
He said the freeholder hadnt progressed the required work. He wanted AGCS to investigate 
why the freeholder wasnt using the money from the cash settlement to get the required work 
done. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
I understand that Mr K submitted a further complaint to AGCS in May 2022. He felt that as 
AGCS hadnt informed any of the leaseholders about the settlement with the freeholder, he 
was entitled to compensation for this lack of communication. AGCS have issued a final 
response on this complaint. I wont cover this part of Mr Ks complaint in my decision. But he 
can request that a new complaint is set up if he wishes. 
Important note:
As our investigator has told Mr K, this service can only investigate those issues which are 
directly linked to his insurance policy. So I can consider the way his claim under his housing 
warranty insurance policy has been handled and how its been progressed. But I cant 
consider anything connected to issues which are part of the freeholders insurance in this 
complaint. This means that any complaints relating to the roof and communal areas, or the 
wider claim Mr K says his neighbours have, cant be considered here. If the freeholder wants 
to make a complaint to this service about those issues, they can. 
I understand that Mr K is unhappy with this. He doesnt consider that the freeholders have been actively involved in the claim. However, from what Ive seen, the freeholder has 
responsibility for the roof and communal areas. These areas were covered under their 
insurance policy. And theyve agreed a settlement with the insurer. So any complaint relating 
to AGCSs handling of that part of the claim must come from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr K. I 
sympathise with the situation he finds himself in. But Im not persuaded that AGCS have 
done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, AGCS accepted the claim. They then set about investigating the claim 
so that they could work out what had gone wrong and what needed to be done to put things 
right. 
During this investigation, AGCS came to realise that the responsibility for the general 
structure of the property was with the freeholder. They said that insurers have to resolve 
claims with the entity whose rights and interests are engaged under the policy to avoid a 
situation where they pay the wrong party. Because of this, the freeholder had to take any 
claim on the general structure of the property forward, rather than Mr K. He didnt have any 
interests under the policy in the structural areas of his flat. So he couldnt directly deal with 
AGCS anymore.
Mr K remained involved with the claim, despite it being the responsibility of the freeholder. I 
understand why he did this. He was trying to move the claim forward and help his 
neighbours. But he didnt have any formal responsibility for progressing the claim as that 
responsibility sat with the freeholder. They were the insured party for the general structure 
claim. And they were the only party who could agree the actions that needed to be taken 
with AGCS.
AGCS have settled the general structure claim with the freeholder. Theyve shared evidence 
with this service of the cash payment they made to the freeholder in full and final settlement 
of their insurance claim. As the freeholder agreed to that settlement, AGCS have no further 
obligations in respect of the claim. From what Ive seen, the freeholder took the cash 
settlement offered and undertook to complete the required works. So, while I acknowledge 
that Mr K would like AGCS to investigate why the freeholder wasnt getting on with the 
required work, I cant ask them to do anything more. 
AGCS have provided this service with a detailed timeline of the claim. I acknowledge how 
frustrating it must be for Mr K that the works still havent been completed. Hes told this 
service how the claim has affected him and his family. Im sorry hes had to go through this 
long wait. And I can see that hes done his best to move things along. But my decision has to 
be based on whether theres evidence that AGCS delayed the claim, or failed to take 
important actions in resolving the claim.  
From what Ive seen from the timeline provided, Ive no evidence that AGCS caused delays 
or acted inappropriately throughout the claims process. They appear to have taken 
reasonable steps to progress the claim where they could. I can see that there were delays 
during the claims process, but I consider that these delays were out of AGCSs control. 
Mr K wanted to know why two surveyors produced reports with different scopes of work. 
AGCS told this service that the reports were produced on different bases. The first report concentrated on Mr Ks flats roof. The second report expanded the analysis across the roof 
of the whole building. I dont consider that it was unreasonable to produce reports with 
different focuses. And Im satisfied that both reports were reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
Mr K has clearly been impacted by the fact that the freeholder is now responsible for 
completing the required works, and is not progressing them as he would like. But it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to hold AGCS responsible for the lack of progress the freeholder 
has made. AGCS cant control the speed with which the freeholder carries out the required 
works. And I consider that they have reasonably told Mr K that they wont get involved in any 
ongoing dispute between him and the freeholder. 
Im sorry that Mr Ks been badly impacted by the delayed repair work. But Ive seen no 
evidence that AGCS have failed in their responsibilities on the claim. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman