DRN-3286794
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her loan account despite applying for a 
payment holiday. 
What happened
Miss S had a loan with Barclays with a monthly payment of £371. In February 2020 the 
direct debit payment was returned unpaid and Miss S made another payment to make it up 
at the end of the month. No payment was made in March 2020. 
Miss S says she applied for a payment holiday for her loan around the start of April 2020. 
Barclays says theres no record of Miss S making a payment holiday application for the loan. 
In May 2020 Miss S spoke with Barclays and explained shed been out of work for some 
time. Barclays confirmed no payment holiday had been approved and placed the account on 
hold for a month to give Miss S some breathing space. 
Miss S spoke with the branch in June 2020 and advised she was hoping to start work 
shortly. Miss S completed an income and expenditure assessment but Barclays said it didnt 
show she could afford to make loan payments. But Miss S started making payments of £110 
a month in June 2020. 
Barclays issued a final response on 9 July 2020 and offered Miss S £30 to apologise for 
delays when calling. But Barclays didnt uphold Miss S complaint about the payment holiday 
or agree it had treated her unfairly. Barclays letter asked Miss S to contact its collections 
team to discuss a payment plan. 
In September 2020 Miss S visited a Barclays branch and an income and expenditure 
assessment was considered by its collections teams. But Barclays says the information 
showed Miss S couldnt afford to revert to the contractual monthly payment of £371. 
Barclays sent Miss S a letter that confirmed it would move to close the loan if the arrears 
position continued but said it had accepted a payment of £0 a month. 
The loan was closed and a default was reported on Miss S credit file a short time later. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an adjudicator. They 
thought Barclays shouldve realised Miss S wanted help when she successfully applied for a 
payment holiday for a credit card. The adjudicator also pointed to emails Miss S had sent 
Barclays emails asking for support. Barclays ultimately agreed to pay Miss S £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused but didnt agree to remove the default from her credit file. 
The adjudicator later confirmed they thought Barclays offer was a fair way to resolve Miss S 
complaint. 
Miss S didnt accept and asked to appeal. Miss S has also told us the debt has been sold to 
a debt collector whos now contacting her for repayment. As Miss S asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has told us she applied for a payment holiday around April 2020 but hasnt been able 
to give a specific date. Barclays has checked its systems and can find no trace of a payment 
holiday application for Miss S loan around this time. Im satisfied the information available 
shows Barclays didnt receive or approve Miss S payment holiday application - as it claims. 
Barclays has also pointed out that the Financial Conduct Authoritys Payment Deferral 
Guidance wouldnt have been suitable for Miss S circumstances as the loan was already in 
arrears in April 2020. I think thats a reasonable point. The Payment Deferral Guidance, 
which allowed businesses to offer a payment break of three to six months without impacting 
the borrowers credit file, was intended for short term financial difficulties caused by the 
pandemic. But the guidance says that it wasnt suitable for all customers and that 
businesses should consider other options in terms of forbearance where there are longer 
term financial difficulties. Given Miss S loan account was already in arrears at the point the 
Payment Deferral Guidance came into effect, I agree with Barclays that it wasnt a suitable 
option for Miss S. 
I also think its reasonable to note that no payments were made to the loan account between 
March and May 2020. Miss S started making payments of £110 a month from June 2020 but 
that was substantially less than the contractual payment so arrears continued to increase at 
a reasonable rate. That ultimately led to the loan closing.
I can see Miss S provided information to complete income and expenditure assessments. 
But each time, the information provided didnt show Miss S had capacity to begin making her 
contractual monthly payments again or repay the arrears. The information indicated Miss S 
was unable to maintain loan payments or enter a payment plan. So whilst I know Miss S was 
concerned about the increasing arrears position of her loan, I havent found Barclays treated 
her unfairly by not agreeing an unaffordable payment plan. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss S but having considered all the available information I agree with 
Barclays view that the Payment Deferral Guidance options were unsuitable. Im satisfied 
Barclays has treated Miss S fairly when considering options for her loan whilst it was in 
arrears and she was experiencing financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought Barclays couldve provided assistance to Miss S sooner and asked it 
to pay her £100. Barclays has accepted. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances of 
Miss S complaint. 
Miss S has told us the debt has been sold to a third party which has contacted her for 
payment. Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, but the terms of her loan allow Barclays to reassign 
it to another business. And whilst I understand weve been dealing with an ongoing 
complaint, that isnt enough in itself to stop Barclays taking the decision to sell the loan. 
If Miss S feels the new debt owner has failed to treat her fairly she has the option of raising 
her concerns directly. But once Barclays sold the debt it stopped being responsible for the 
recovery activity. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss S but Im satisfied Barclays agreement to pay her £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions is a fair way to resolve her complaint. 
As a result, Im going to uphold Miss S complaint and proceed on that basis. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay her 
£100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman