DRN-2846751
The complaint
Mr F complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim he made under 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F renewed his annual multi-trip travel insurance policy online on 8 March 2020. URV was 
the insurer. Mr F booked a ski holiday to France on 12 March 2020, for the period between 
14 and 21 March 2020.
Mr F started his holiday, but the resort he was staying at closed that night on order of the 
French government. So, on 15 March 2020 everyone in the resort was advised to leave by 
17 March 2020 at the latest. Mr F returned his skis and lift pass on 15 March 2020.
Mr F rebooked his return flight for 19 March 2020  he says it was the earliest he was able to 
rebook with the airline. But this wasnt acceptable for the resort manager as everyone had 
been advised to leave by 17 March 2020. So, he booked a flight with another airline for 
16 March 2020. Thats the day Mr F returned to the UK.
Mr F wants URV to pay for the unused part of the holiday and the additional return flight.
URV said that theres no cover for this situation under the whats covered part of the terms 
and conditions of the policy. It also says that Covid-19 was a known entity at the time Mr F 
bought his policy, and this is excluded under the policy.
Our investigator thought it was fair to say that Covid-19 was a known event that couldve 
prevented travel after the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared it a pandemic on 
11 March 2020. So, as Mr F booked his holiday after that, he didnt think URV had acted 
unreasonably by declining his claim.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said that when he booked his holiday, 
there was no advice against travel, and travel companies and airlines were taking bookings 
as normal. Mr F said the resort he travelled to was expecting to be open as normal until the 
end of the season. Mr F also said that URV shouldve given appropriate warnings on its 
website when he renewed the policy, if claims relating to Covid-19 wouldnt be covered.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint. 
Ive first considered URVs argument that Covid-19 was a known entity when Mr F bought 
his policy and before he travelled. I can see that the Insurance Product Information 
Document includes the below term under What is not insured?
Events or situations you know about before taking out a policy or booking a trip which could 
mean you cant travel.
Mr F renewed his policy on 8 March 2020 and booked the holiday on 12 March 2020. At the 
time when Mr F bought his policy, the WHO was yet to declare Covid-19 a pandemic  it did 
so on 11 March 2020. URV has referred to there being significant amount of information 
about the global spread of the Covid-19 by 3 March 2020, and that it wasnt unreasonable to 
state the closure of borders and severe travel disruption were wholly expected.
In essence, URV is saying that Covid-19 was a known entity already by 3 March 2020  yet, 
I havent seen anything to show that URV had publicly stated it considered Covid-19 to be a 
reasonably foreseeable issue or event which it didnt wish to insure at the time. Id expect 
any proposed exclusions about Covid-19 to have been made clear to policyholders when 
buying their policy.
If URV thought at the time Covid-19 was a known entity that it wasnt willing to cover, I think 
it shouldve made this clear to its policyholders. I havent seen anything to suggest it did that 
before Mr F renewed his policy or booked his holiday. And, I cant see that after the 
purchase URV updated Mr F to let him know that Covid-19 wouldnt be covered after the 
announcement from the WHO on 11 March 2020. So, in the absence of any further evidence 
from URV showing the above, I dont think URV has acted fairly or reasonably by saying 
Mr Fs claim isnt covered because it related to a known event.
For completeness sake, unlike our investigator, I dont think that Mr F knew (or shouldve 
known) there were likely going to be issues with his holiday when he booked it, or that he 
would likely need to claim under his travel insurance, once the WHO declared Covid-19 a 
pandemic. This is for the reasons Ive explained above. Mr F was also able to book flights 
and accommodation and there were no restrictions on travel that prevented him from 
travelling when he left the UK. 
Ive then considered if Mr F has a valid claim under his policy. Having done so, I think he 
does. Ill explain why.
The curtailment section of the policy says that the insurer will pay if You had to cut short 
your trip because the following happened after you left home:
you, a travel companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and 
alternative accommodation was not provided;
you, or a travel companion were quarantined, or called for jury service or required 
as a witness in a court of law;
you, or a travel companion were made redundant;
you, or a travel companion, have leave withdrawn and is a member of the armed 
forces (including reserves and territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing 
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of the government;
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel within 
30 mile radius of your trip destination.The Foreign & Commonwealth office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel on 
17 March 2020. So, from that point onwards Mr F had a valid claim for curtailment under the 
terms of the policy. I know Mr F travelled back home already on 16 March 2020, but I dont 
think he prejudiced the insurer by doing so, as he wouldve been covered if hed stayed until 
the next day. I also think Mr F acted reasonably in trying to first rebook his original return 
flight. And when this wasnt acceptable, I think he acted reasonably in booking an alternative 
return flight. Taking everything into account, I think there was an insured event here under 
the curtailment section of the policy from 17 March 2020 onwards.
Ive also thought about if URV should pay for effective curtailment earlier than 17 March 
2020. But I dont think it does. Ill explain why.
The resort Mr F was staying at closed on order of the French government. This isnt 
something thats covered under the policy terms. That said, the policy does provide cover if 
Mr F was quarantined. But I can see that while Mr F wasnt able to ski as hed planned, he 
was able to use some amenities in his accommodation, and he wasnt quarantined in his 
room. He had the use of his accommodation and the amenities, up to, and including the 
16 March 2020. So, I dont think his holiday was curtailed, or effectively curtailed, as per the 
terms of the policy at this point. Taking everything into account, I dont think URV needs to 
pay Mr Fs claim before the FCO advice changed on 17 March 2020.
Ive noted that URV has also said that Mr F should seek to claim his costs elsewhere, such 
as his travel provider, or through his credit card or debit card providers. 
Firstly, the booking confirmation Mr F has sent doesnt suggest that hed booked a package 
holiday  this only included the accommodation. Mr F paid for the other elements, such as 
ski passes and flights, separately. So, I dont think Mr Fs booking with the travel agent 
constituted a package holiday under the relevant regulations. Mr F has already tried to get a 
refund from the accommodation provider, but hes been unsuccessful. He also hasnt got a 
refund from the airline, as his flight wasnt cancelled.
I also dont think its clear from the wording of this policy that policyholders are required to 
seek recovery from their credit card provider or bank before they can make a successful 
insurance claim. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for URV to ask Mr F to do that.
Having considered everything, I think Mr F has a valid claim under his policy from 
17 March 2020 onwards that URV should pay for.
Both Mr F and URV responded to my provisional decision to say they didnt have anything 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision.
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. I think Mr F has a valid claim under his 
policy from 17 March 2020 onwards that URV should pay for.Putting things right
I direct URV to pay Mr Fs claim under the curtailment section of this policy, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions, from 17 March 2020 onwards. I also direct URV to add 8% 
simple interest to any settlement amount from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs 
complaint in part. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman