DRN-3160383
The complaint
Mr M says AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
On 21 December 2015 Mr M took out a 36-month instalment loan from AvantCredit for 
£2,600. The monthly repayment was £157.99 and the total repayable was £5,687.67.
Mr M says the loan was issued when he was already in debt and the interest rate was 
ridiculous. 
The investigator said Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said AvantCredit had not made 
a fair lending decision based on the checks it completed as they showed Mr M was already 
having financial difficulties. 
AvantCredit disagreed saying the loan was affordable as it would have consolidated 52% of 
Mr Ms active debt. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Mr M. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr M, and have considered the following questions:
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and it says it verified this. It asked about his expenditure and it checked 
his credit file to understand his existing credit commitments and his credit history. It also 
asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks 
combined AvantCredit concluded the loan would be affordable on the basis Mr M could have 
consolidated 50% of his active debt.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not persuaded AvantCredit made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
The credit check AvantCredit completed showed Mr M was using payday loans. His most 
recent was from October 2015 and was still active, but more critically his credit history 
showed a reliance on this type of high-cost short-term credit. Mr M had taken out at least 47
short-term high-cost loans in the past six years (45 were settled, 1 had defaulted and 1 was 
active). Whilst the majority were settled, from that volume of loans AvantCredit ought to have 
realised Mr M was having problems managing his money and was in a harmful, long-term 
cycle of borrowing to repay. And giving this loan would extend and prolong his reliance on 
high-cost credit for a further 36 months.
I have thought carefully about the point that this loan was for debt consolidation so Mr Ms
outgoings would be reducing. But based on the available evidence I cant fairly conclude in 
the circumstances of this case that meant giving the loan could not cause adverse financial 
consequences for Mr M. Ive seen no evidence the lender took any steps to understand 
which debt Mr M was looking to repay to know that its loan would be financially beneficial, 
not harmful.  And it doesnt seem to have assessed how much the debt consolidation would 
reduce Mr Ms monthly credit commitments by in order to validate its affordability 
assumptions. And Mr Ms debt was almost £5,000 so he would still have debt to service. So, 
overall, this does not change my conclusion.
It follows I think it was irresponsible of AvantCredit to lend to Mr M. I note he went on to have 
problems repaying the loan only four months into the term.I havent found any evidence that AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way. Mr M said the interest on the loan was ridiculous. I accept the interest rate was high, 
but Mr M had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he was 
aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think that 
AvantCredit treated Mr M unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. 
But in any event, the interest and charges will be refunded as Ive concluded this loan 
shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr M to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr M
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance
AvantCredit should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit should
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman