DRN-3425008
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) should have repaid him £1,083.46 which 
was a refund of charges which it instead credited against the mortgage shortfall.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with BoS. His property was repossessed and sold and there was a 
shortfall. Mr H was made bankrupt in 2017. In June 2018, BoS wrote to Mr H to say that it 
was refunding mortgage arrears management fees added to the account from 2009 but that 
it was retaining this refund against the mortgage shortfall. Mr H said that as BoS had 
submitted a claim to his trustee, the Official Receiver the money should have been paid to 
him. Mr H says that he could then discuss with the trustee whether the money should be 
paid to the trustee or Mr H.
BoS says that had the fees not been charged the shortfall would have been lower so the 
refund was applied to the shortfall in order to put the account in the position it would have 
been had the fees not been charged in the first place. It dd pay Mr H £50 for not responding 
to his complaint in a timely manner. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as BoS acted fairly in offsetting the refund against the mortgage shortfall. 
Mr H says that after he was made bankrupt, he didnt owe any debt to BoS and the money 
should be paid to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was made bankrupt in 2017 and although the bankruptcy has been discharged his 
rights to bring any actions including this complaint would have vested in his bankruptcy 
trustee who is the Official Receiver. I note that the Official Receiver does not object to Mr H 
bringing this complaint so we can consider it.
Mr H had a mortgage with BoS. The property was repossessed and BoS tell us that the 
mortgage shortfall was £11,676 .07 plus litigation fees of £653.42. Mr H was subsequently 
made bankrupt. Then BoS decided that it would refund charges to Mr Hs account. I assume 
if Mr H had been in credit with BoS it would have sent him a cheque. Because Mr Hs 
account showed that money was still owed to BoS it simply credited the account which still 
shows a debt but a lesser debt. 
Mr H makes the point that as he was made bankrupt and then discharged that he doesnt 
owe anything, so how can BoS say that its crediting money to an account that he doesnt 
owe? But the situation is that when Mr H was made bankrupt there were debts that he is no 
longer liable to discharge but are debts which are payable by Mr Hs bankrupt estate 
managed by his trustee the Official Receiver. One of these debts was the mortgage shortfall 
due to BoS. So, BoS has an account with money owed to it by Mr Hs bankrupt estate. There 
is a credit to that estate which is the refund. Its not due to Mr H as it results from charges 
levied on Mr Hs account before the date of his bankruptcy and would form part of his estate 
on bankruptcy. The refund can be withheld by BoS and not paid to the Official Receiver as it 
can exercise a right of set-off in bankruptcy law setting off any credits due to the bankrupts 
estate against money owed to it by the bankrupts estate which is what it is doing. I note that 
in its correspondence with us that the Official Receiver recognises this right of set -off.
In any case it doesnt seem unfair that If money is owed on an account that any refund 
should be credited to that account and not repaid whilst there is still an amount owing on the 
account. So, I dont consider that that BoS acted unfairly or unreasonably by adjusting this 
account with a credit rather than paying the money to Mr H and I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman