DRN-3739209
The complaint
Ms S says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave her a line of credit without carrying out 
proper affordability checks. Had it carried out further checks it wouldve discovered Ms S 
couldnt afford to take on any more debt. 
Ms S says that Drafty hasnt treated her with any empathy.  
In order to put things right, Ms S has asked for a full refund of interest and charges and for 
the balance to be written off. 
What happened
Ms S approached Drafty for a running credit facility in February 2022. Ms S was given a 
facility with a £900 credit limit. 
Drafty has told the Financial Ombudsman the account has been terminated and it also 
seems the account has been defaulted. As of September 2022, an outstanding balance 
remains due of £1,104.67. Drafty also told Ms S at the end of September 2022 it would be 
assigning her debt to a third-party collection agency. The debt seems to have defaulted 
which will prevent further interest and charges being added to the balance. 
Ms S was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also 
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what was owed. To be 
clear, Ms S was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter issued in May 2022, it explained the information it had 
gathered from Ms S before it approved the facility. It concluded that given the estimated 
monthly repayment, Ms S was likely to be able to afford the credit facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ss complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Ms S was likely 
to be able to afford the facility. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the 
facility.
The adjudicator also explained Drafty had an obligation to monitor the facility. Looking at the 
way Ms S borrowed and repaid the facility; the adjudicator couldnt see any indicators of 
financial difficulties and so she didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint about the unaffordable 
lending. 
Finally, on that part of Ms S complaint about Draftys lack of empathy, our adjudicator saw 
that Drafty had sent Ms S an email link in order to try and set up a repayment plan. But 
Drafty said it hadnt heard back from Ms S and so our adjudicator didnt think Ms S had been 
treated unfairly. The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision because she doesnt think her 
evidence was considered fairly. She also says that she has no spare income at the end of 
the month to be able to afford any repayments. 
Drafty didnt provide any further comments for consideration after the adjudicator issued her 
assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Ms S 
facility. 
As explained, Ms S was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Ms S would be able to both service and then repay the facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Ms Ss repayment record for any sign that she 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Ms S were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into account 
and Ive explained why below. 
As explained, Ms S wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of what she
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. Instead, she was given a facility 
where there was an expectation that shed repay what was borrowed plus the interest due 
within a reasonable period of time. What constitutes a reasonable period of time is laid out in 
the regulations but its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Ms S was granted a facility with Drafty with a £900 limit. In the credit agreement, a 
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Ms S. This 
situation assumed that Ms S did the following:
1. drew down the maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 2. she kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Ms S repaid what she owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Ms S done that, shed have repaid Drafty a total of £1,220.29 meaning a total monthly 
repayment of around £101.69 (just under £102).   
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Ms S could make monthly repayments of around £102 at an 
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Ms Ss application after shed provided details of her monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. It says the information it gathered
showed that Ms S would be able to comfortably make payments of around £102 a month.
In these circumstances it thought it was reasonable to lend. Having looked everything, I 
agree with this. 
Drafty has shown, that Ms S declared her monthly income was £1,700 and her declared 
monthly expenditure was £1,280. Based on its checks and what Ms S declared to Drafty, it 
calculated she had around £420 of disposable income each month in which to service and 
repay the facility. 
Ms S says, as part of her letter of complaint that she wasnt working at the time of the 
application and was instead in receipt of benefits. The bank statements Ms S has provided 
dont show the benefit payments but do show a number of transfers from a third party. But 
what her bank statements do show is that she wasnt working and receiving a regular salary. 
Drafty wasnt aware of that at the time, indeed Ms S told Drafty she was working and 
received a salary based on what she declared to Drafty there was no indication that she had 
potentially underreported her circumstances.
However, Drafty, given the terms of the agreement and this being at the start of the lending 
relationship it was, entirely reasonable, in my view for Drafty to rely on the figures given to it 
by Ms S so it wouldnt have thought it would need to verify the information she had provided. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results.
It is worth saying here that although Drafty carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible 
that the information Drafty received may not entirely reflect the information Ms Ss actual 
position in relation to other creditors. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such 
as Drafty only asking for certain pieces of information such as the number of active credit 
accounts. But what Drafty couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the 
information it received  if necessary.  
Although, the credit search results showed that Ms S had a defaulted credit account the 
information supplied by Drafty doesnt provide any details as to when this default was 
applied. I also dont think the results provided by Drafty are complete, given the records 
show it was told she had zero other credit accounts, when I know that not to be correct  
given a review of her bank statements. 
I also accept Ms Ss actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the 
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained  such as what Ms S says about her 
income. But Drafty could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time.Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty asked Ms S, this 
was Ms Ss first facility and the other information  such as Ms Ss credit search results -  I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to rely on the information Ms S provided. This 
means, I dont think Draftys checks needed to extend to obtaining copies of Ms Ss bank 
statement. Drafty therefore made a reasonable decision to provide the facility.
Monitoring the facility 
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the 
end of its obligations to Ms S. As Ive said above, when the facility was approved, Drafty was 
regulated by the FCA and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should 
be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
But, its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some 
indicators, which when present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Ms Ss repayment record 
and how she used the facility and step in if and when she showed signs of possible 
repayment difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought there werent any signs of financial distress during the time she used 
the facility - Ms S made her last drawdown in April 2022.
Looking at the statement of account, Ms S drew down up to her limit on the day it was 
approved  1 February 2022. She then made minimum payments which were due in 
February and March 2022. 
Ms S then took a further £100 at the end of March 2022, before making her minimum 
repayment in April 2022 and then soon after those payments had been made in April 2022, 
Ms S drew down her final amount of £100.  
Looking at the statement of account, the facility was then suspended by 20 June 2022. By 
suspending the facility Drafty prevented Ms S was further drawing down on the facility. Ms S 
has provided a copy of an email she received from Drafty on 10 July 2022 titled Notice of 
Default.  This was likely received by Ms S due to no payment being made in May 2022 and 
£1 being paid in June 2022. 
It is therefore likely the account was marked as being in default at some point either at the 
end of July or the start of August 2022. Drafty, hasnt told the Financial Ombudsman the 
default date and I dont have a copy of Ms S credit file which would confirm this.
In total, Ms S was actively using the facility for three months, while she did drawdown her full 
credit limit, she seemed to be managing her payments well. Both February and March 2022 
payments were made on time, and it seems she paid more than the minimum payment due 
in April 2022. Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the manner in which Ms S used the facility 
ought to have prompted Drafty to have carried out further checks or to have stepped in 
sooner than it did in order to prevent her from drawing down on it further.
Im therefore not upholding Ms Ss complaint. 
Setting up a repayment plan 
Following Ms S complaint Drafty asked Ms S to complete an income and expenditure form. 
In my view this was an entirely reasonable request. In order to accept a repayment plan from 
Ms S Drafty wouldve needed to make sure that any plan that was agreed was affordable for 
her and wouldnt make her financial situation worse, by for example asking her to pay more 
than she could afford. 
Ms S says that she completed the income and expenditure form (by clicking on the link) but 
didnt hear anything further from Drafty. Ms S also provided a copy of an email she received 
from Drafty on 30 June 2022. 
This email confirmed that if the link has been accessed it can take up to 72 hours for the 
details to show on Draftys systems. It also gave Ms S the option to deal with this matter in 
email  and Drafty provided a list of information that would be needed to enable it to do so. 
The adjudicator asked Drafty about this income and expenditure, because there didnt seem 
to be any further developments about the setting up of a plan. Drafty confirmed to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service that it hasnt received the details from Ms S either through 
email or through the link it had previously sent her. 
It would therefore seem, from Draftys viewpoint that the income and expenditure form hadnt 
been completed and therefore it wouldnt be in a position to offer a repayment plan. But it is 
worth saying here, that it knew from Ms S complaint that she was having financial 
difficulties. 
Drafty says payment plans can only be accepted in certain situations, but Id remind it that 
Ms S has told the Financial Ombudsman Service that she had very little, if anything at all at 
the end of the month left over to service this debt. So, Drafty will need to consider this as 
well as the information it has been given about her health when deciding a way forward. 
Ive not seen any chaser emails from Ms S to show she chased a response to the income 
and expenditure form. And, the adjudicator also asked her to complete an income and 
expenditure form (so it could be forwarded on to Drafty) but Ms S says there is no point 
because she cant afford anything. As part of the process of setting up a payment plan, as I 
said earlier in the decision, I dont think Drafty asking for a income and expenditure form was 
an unreasonable request, as it would show, exactly how much, if anything Ms S could afford.  
Ms S did raise this again with Drafty after she was told the debt was being assigned, but no 
further agreement appears to have been reached at this time. In any event, at that point in 
time  the account was already defaulted, and no further interest, fees or charges were 
being added to the balance. 
I appreciate Ms S wants the debt written off, but Ive not seen anything to make me think that 
Drafty should do that in this case. I accept that in the letter of complaint, she explained how 
the debt is affecting her mental health and then this was reiterated in her response to 
Draftys email about the debt being assigned. But, having looked at everything, that on its own isnt enough for me to ask Drafty to write 
the outstanding balance off. But again, Id remind Drafty that it needs to take into account 
her financial and health when dealing with Ms S about the most appropriate way to assist 
her to pay down what is owed.   
Of course, Drafty writing off the debt is an option available to it, depending on what else it 
may find out from Ms S obtains. However, the starting point for the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, is that funds have been borrowed, and these need to be repaid. Of course, if Drafty 
or the third party wishes to write the debt off than that is something for them to consider, but 
I wont be directing it to do so. 
Also, the account has now been assigned to a third party. It isnt clear from what weve 
been told that whether this means the third party has purchased the debt and is the new 
debt owner  if so moving forward Ms S may need to deal directly with them about all issues 
relating to the repayment. 
However, it is of course possible, the third party is managing the debt on behalf of Drafty. In 
this case, Drafty remains the legal owners of the debt and the third party is just acting as a 
conduit to try and recover the funds. If this is the situation, then Drafty needs to be aware 
and seek further information from Ms S firstly, about what she can afford each month (even if 
it is token payments) and engage with Ms S about her health in order to discuss an 
agreeable way forward. 
Im therefore not upholding Ms Ss complaint. But Id remind Drafty it has a continuing 
obligation to treat Ms S fairly and with forbearance.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman