DRN-1631550
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and declined his claim.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B had a car that was no longer insured and that he wanted to sell. He 
agreed to drive the car to a meeting with a potential buyer on 30 September 2019. So on 
that day Mr B went online and insured the car with Tradewise on a policy for one day only. 
Later the meeting was cancelled. 
But Mr B reported a shocking event during the evening of 30 September. Mr B had heard 
from another man and agreed to show him the car. As that man couldnt show he had 
insurance, Mr B declined his request to test drive the car. Mr B locked the car. As Mr B was 
walking back to his flat, the man pushed him to the ground, took the keys, brandished a 
large knife and took the car.
Tradewise sent an investigator to speak with Mr B on 16 October 2019. Mr B said his 
occupation was in fast-food delivery. On 22 November, Tradewise said its policy didnt cover 
drivers with that occupation, so it was treating the policy as void and wouldnt pay his claim. 
Mr B complained about that to Tradewise. It wrote a final response letter dated 14 January 
2020 maintaining its decision. Unhappy with that, Mr B brought his compliant to us later that 
month.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Tradewise had acted incorrectly.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car hadnt been insured and Mr B was selling it. So I have no reason to doubt his 
statement that he didnt use the car for deliveries.
But I accept the insurers evidence that  in order to buy the policy online  Mr B was asked 
to tick a box confirming that he was not unemployed and that he did not have an occupation 
connected to the following trades or professions:
Couriers
Entertainment industry
Parcel &/or Fast-food delivery
Professional Sports-person
Claims, Credit Hire, Accident Management or Vehicle Rental.
As he bought the policy online, Mr B mustve ticked the box to confirm that he didnt have an 
occupation connected to fast-food delivery. I find that Mr Bs response was incorrect. As the 
list of occupations was short, Im not satisfied that Mr B took reasonable care to give a 
correct response.
Mr B gave the investigator a signed statement in which he said that he was a self-employed 
fast-food delivery driver. 
Its clear that if hed said his occupation was in fast-food delivery, Tradewise wouldnt have 
insured Mr B.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Tradewise to reinstate the policy or to pay the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Tradewise Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman