DRN-3649241
The complaint
Ms F complains about the service UK Insurance Limited provided in relation to her claim for 
legal expenses insurance cover and their failure to provide her policy documents in an 
accessible format.
What happened
Ms F took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) with UK Insurance Limited (UKI) as part of her 
home insurance policy in February 2021. It renewed in February 2022.
In December 2021 Ms F made a claim on the policy to cover the costs of pursuing a claim 
for breach of contract against a third party shed engaged to do some work. She was 
unhappy with the service UKI provided and said they failed to allocate her case to solicitors 
as quickly as promised or to mark her case urgent as theyd said they would. 
UKI acknowledged her complaint and said theyd be in further contact about it in the middle 
of January. Ms F contacted them then to remind them a response was due. And, at the 
same time, she raised further concerns that she hadnt heard from the solicitors in December 
as expected. 
UKI responded to Ms Fs complaint at the end of January 2022. They didnt uphold her 
complaint on grounds, broadly, that the timescales theyd worked to had been reasonable. 
Their investigations had established the solicitors had written to Ms F on the day shed been 
expecting them to contact her in late December. And shed provided the documents the 
solicitors had asked for in late January. 
Ms F felt UKI hadnt addressed all her concerns. She was unhappy they hadnt contacted 
her about the complaint in January as theyd said they would. And she said the solicitors 
hadnt called her as promised. She brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in early February 2022. 
Before we looked into her complaint, Ms F responded to UKI and raised some further issues. 
She was unhappy that when the solicitors reviewed her case they said it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success because the third party didnt have any property to enforce 
a judgment against. She felt she should have been told sooner that arrangements between 
UKI and the solicitors meant the solicitors could refuse to act in those circumstances. 
Ms F said UKI had failed to provide her policy documentation in an accessible format. She 
was unhappy the documents werent sent when UKI said they would be, and theyd failed to 
explain why. Shed received them by the end of January. But Ms F thought they should 
reimburse legal costs shed incurred with other solicitors and lower her renewal premium to 
the previous years level  as UKI had initially suggested they might - because of the poor 
service theyd provided.
UKI wrote to Ms F at the end of February 2022. They felt theyd fully investigated the 
concerns shed raised previously. They explained the process they follow to investigate 
claims before making a full decision on whether a claim is covered. They apologised for the 
incorrect spelling of her email address which had meant emails the solicitors had sent hadnt 
reached her. And they said theyd consider her complaint about the accessible 
documentation separately. In relation to that, UKI agreed in June 2022 Ms F should have 
been sent documents in the format shed requested. They apologised for poor 
communication and sent her compensation of £300.
Ms F wasnt happy with UKIs responses to her complaints. Our investigator thought UKI had 
dealt with her claim within reasonable timescales. And they thought that UKI had fairly 
compensated her for the mistakes theyd made in providing the policy documents. Ms F 
didnt agree, so her complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Ms Fs recent difficult personal circumstances. And I acknowledge her 
strength of feeling about her complaint. Ive noted her concern that not all the details of her 
complaints were referred to in responses she received from UKI or in our investigators view. 
I wont mention everything in detail either. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Id like to reassure Ms F and UKI that 
Ive carefully considered everything theyve told us in reaching my decision. 
UKI carried out an initial assessment that Ms Fs claim was covered and referred it to their 
panel solicitors within around ten days. They acknowledged they hadnt noted her file as 
urgent or appointed solicitors when she spoke to them on 17 December 2021. But they 
appointed solicitors the next working day and the solicitors seem to have started work then. 
Ms F was expecting a call from the solicitors on 20 December 2021. They attempted to email 
a letter to her that day but used the wrong email address, which meant it didnt reach her. 
From the investigation they carried out, I think UKI reasonably thought the solicitors had 
written to Ms F at her postal address on 20 December 2021. So, it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable for them to think shed received the letter when they responded to her 
complaint later that month.
We can only consider complaints about UKI, not the solicitors they appointed on Ms Fs 
behalf. They are a separate company. Any complaint about the solicitors actions would 
need to be considered by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. I dont think UKI were at fault 
for the solicitors using the wrong email address so it wouldnt be fair to hold them 
responsible. I note they apologised for what happened and I think that was enough to put 
things right from UKIs point of view.
I note Ms F was able to discuss her claim with the solicitors on around 18 January 2022 and 
they gave their advice shortly afterwards. Ms F knew the position on policy coverage within 
around six weeks of making her claim. I appreciate she wanted things looked at more quickly 
and I can understand the solicitors advice was disappointing. But overall, I dont think UKI 
acted unreasonably or that the timescales were unreasonable, particularly given the 
intervening festive period.
I note Ms F was unhappy with the time it took to respond to her initial complaint. We dont 
generally have the power to consider complaints about complaint handling. It would have 
been good practice for UKI to have got in touch with her by the date they said they would in       
mid-January 2022. But she raised additional concerns she wanted them to consider as part 
of the complaint that day. Since the eight weeks they had to respond fully to the complaint 
was still running, I dont think they needed to do more at the time. They were actively considering the issues shed raised and responded within the deadline.
I appreciate Ms F was unhappy when her claim was declined following the solicitors review. 
UKI followed the process LEI insurers generally follow in assessing her claim. They carried 
out an initial assessment to see whether her claim fell within the terms of cover. And they 
then passed it to panel solicitors for a more detailed consideration. Part of that was to look at 
whether Ms Fs legal claim against the third party had reasonable prospects of success, not 
only in winning the case, but also in enforcing any award a court might make against the 
third party. 
The requirement for Ms Fs claim to have reasonable prospects of success was clearly set 
out as a condition of cover under the LEI policy, not part of an agreement between UKI and 
the solicitors. UKI wouldnt have been aware of the position until the solicitors had carried 
out their review. So, it wouldnt have been possible for them to have let Ms F know if her 
claim was covered before the solicitors had considered things. I dont think UKI did anything 
wrong here.
I can understand it was inconvenient that UKI delayed in providing Ms F with her policy 
documents in an accessible format. And I appreciate it will have been upsetting since thered 
been a delay the previous year as well. But Im pleased to see shed received them by the 
end of January 2022 before her policy renewed. UKI accepted theyd made a mistake. They 
apologised for their poor communication. And they explained they werent able to provide a 
further copy of the previous years documents by then. I think the apology UKI gave and the 
compensation of £300 they paid Ms F were fair to put things right in the circumstances.
Bearing everything in mind, I think UKI has addressed Ms Fs complaints fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think they need to do anything more to put things right. So, whilst I 
understand Ms F will be disappointed, I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman