DRN-3098831
The complaint
Ms R complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) failed to explain the 
difference in statement balances she queried. 
  
What happened
In January 2021 Ms R contacted LCCU to query a difference in her statement balances. Ms 
R explained she had found a difference of around £100 between two monthly statements 
and asked LCCU to explain and registered a complaint. 
Ms R has told us no responses explaining the situation were received so she referred the 
matter to this service. In July 2021 LCCU emailed Ms R and advised she had been double 
charged for two transactions which is why the balance was wrong in January 2021. LCCU 
also said Ms R had been double charged again on 26 April 2021. LCCU refunded the 
disputed amounts returning Ms Rs account to the correct position. 
Our investigator asked LCCU to provide a complaint file and went on to chase it for a 
response via various email addresses he was given and over the phone. LCCU didnt 
respond during the ongoing investigation. 
In the absence of any response or supporting information from LCCU, the investigator relied 
on the details provided by Ms R and a copy the email explaining the statement errors. The 
investigator accepted LCCU had corrected its error in relation to the transactions Ms R 
complained about but thought it had caused unnecessary worry and stress by failing to 
respond to her ongoing questions in good time. As a result, the investigator asked LCCU to 
pay Ms R £100 for the trouble and upset caused. The investigator also told LCCU to pay 
interest on the duplicate entries and raise a new complaint for Ms R as she was concerned 
about the possibility of historic errors within her statements. 
LCCU has recently responded to the investigators view and provided an account statement 
for Ms R. LCCU says there are no other errors on Ms Rs account. LCCU didnt agree to pay 
£100 but did offer Ms R £25 to resolve the complaint. As LCCU didnt accept the 
investigators view, Ms Rs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LCCU accepts errors on Ms Rs statements were made and that she was double charged. 
Im pleased the transactions have been refunded, but I agree with the investigator that it took 
LCCU too long to respond to Ms R and resolve the matter. I can see the situation was very 
frustrating for Ms R and I think she has a reasonable expectation that when potential errors 
are identified LCCU will look into the matter and resolve it in good time. 
Whilst I note LCCU has recently provided an account statement and told us no other errors 
have been found, Ms R first raised these issues back in January 2021. Im satisfied theres 
been an unreasonable delay in responding to Ms Rs enquiries. 
I agree with the investigators view that the way LCCU has handled Ms Rs queries and 
concerns has caused an unnecessary level of distress and inconvenience. I also agree that 
a payment of £100 fairly reflects the impact of the error and delays on Ms R. Ive considered 
LCCUs counter offer of £25 but I dont agree thats a fair way to resolve Ms Rs complaint. 
So Im going to endorse the investigators recommendation and uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
The investigator also awarded 8% interest to reflect the period when Ms R didnt have 
access to her funds. Im satisfied thats fair. 
Ms R says shes also concerned that LCCU has made other errors with her statements. 
LCCU has now provided a statement and confirmation it doesnt believe there were further 
errors. I leave it to Ms R to review the statement (our investigator can provide a copy) and 
raise any concerns about specific transactions she may have with LCCU. If Ms R finds 
further transactions that werent genuine, she has the option of raising a follow up complaint. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im going to uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct London Community Credit Union 
Limited to settle as follows: 
- Pay Ms R £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Pay 8% interest against the duplicate payments from the date of entry to the date of 
reversal 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman