DRN-1865682
The complaint
Mr B complains that Quint Group Limited, trading as Monevo, passed his details to other 
companies without his consent and that he subsequently received unsolicited mail.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B ticked a box in the application form to confirm hed read the privacy statement.
The privacy policy explained that Monevo would need to share Mr Bs information with a list 
of third parties so they could provide a quote. 
The companies Mr B received subsequent emails from were on that third-party list.
The terms of service also explain that we may follow-up with you and
contact you from time to time in relation to your application and any Products you have
requested from your selected lender.We may send you emails, texts or call youYou may 
also receive these types of communications from any lenders/providers that we introduce 
you to
So, I think by ticking the box in the application form Mr B confirmed he understood he may 
receive communication from specified third parties about selected Products.
Mr B says this would only apply if he had proceeded with the application, but I dont think 
that was the case. By ticking the box in the application Mr B was asked to confirm he had 
read and agreed to the privacy policy and that policy explained he could be contacted by the 
companies he was contacted by and about the product he was enquiring into.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman