DRN-3738158
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited (AXA XL)s decision 
to reject a claim she made under a jewellery insurance policy following a burglary. 
Mrs S holds the policy jointly with Mr A. 
What happened
Mrs S insured her engagement ring under a jewellery insurance policy with AXA XL. In 
August 2021 Mrs S added a necklace to the policy. 
In November 2021 Mrs S reported a burglary at their home and confirmed that the necklace 
had been stolen. (Mrs S was wearing her engagement ring - it wasnt stolen). She said the 
necklace was stolen from a bedside draw. 
Mrs S and Mr A lived in a third floor apartment. They said access to the apartment had been 
gained by a thief or thieves from an external window. 
AXA XL said that it wouldnt meet Mrs Ss claim for the stolen necklace for two reasons. It 
said under the personal custody clause of the policy Mrs S had failed to protect the 
necklace as it wasnt locked in a safe while not being worn. And it said there was no 
evidence of a forceable or violent entry when the theft occurred. 
Mrs S complained to AXA XL but it said its decision was correct. So Mrs S asked us to look 
at her complaint. 
Our Investigator initially recommended Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She found that 
the underwriting limit under the policy for an insured item to be kept in a safe was set at 
£20,000. While this correctly applied when Mrs S bought the policy to insure her 
engagement ring, she thought it unfair for AXA XL to apply the same clause for the necklace 
valued at £2,000 when it was added to the policy.
The Investigator thought AXA XL should have accepted the burglary claim as there was 
evidence of damage, Mrs S hadnt acted recklessly and had taken reasonable steps to 
protect the property. The Investigator thought as the window was closed but the window 
latch had been tampered with to gain access to the property, the claim should be accepted 
by AXA XL. She recommended AXA XL meet the claim for the stolen necklace and pay 
interest at 8% simple interest on the settlement sum. 
Mrs S accepted the Investigators view. AXA XL disagreed. It said the policy wording is clear 
and unambiguous. It provided call recordings which it says shows Mrs S was aware of the 
terms and conditions of the policy when she added the necklace. It said that although the 
restrictions did apply to higher value items, AXA XL explained to Mrs S that the cover for the 
necklace would be the same as for the engagement ring and as set out under the policy 
schedule. 
AXA XL said that while there was some evidence the window latch was loose, there was 
nothing to suggest it had been forced open from the outside. It says the window was 
inaccessible from the outside as it is a third floor apartment. So it says a break in through 
such a window is highly unlikely. 
Our Investigator listened to the call recordings provided and gave an updated view to both 
parties. The Investigator no longer recommended upholding Mrs Ss complaint. She found 
that AXA XL explained the personal custody clause to Mrs S at renewal in November 2020 
and twice during a call in August 2021 when she added the necklace to the policy. 
The Investigator acknowledged that on the Statement of Fact, AXA XL listed the following 
when Mrs S added the necklace as an insured item: that the necklace wasnt permanently 
worn and that no safe was installed. 
However, she found that the personal custody clause had been clearly explained to Mrs S 
which shed acknowledged in key calls. So as Mrs S was aware of the clause, it was for her 
to ensure the necklace was protected in line with the policy terms.
The Investigator sent a copy of the call recordings to Mrs S with her second view. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She says if the information on the documents isnt in line with what was 
said on the calls, this should have been flagged by AXA XL. She says it doesnt make sense 
if an item is not permanently worn and she stated she didnt have a safe, that she would 
carry it around with her wherever she went.
So Mrs S wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Mr As policy with AXA XL provides cover for specific insured items which are 
jewellery, fine art, collectables and musical instruments.
Like most insurance policies, AXA XL has exclusions to the cover it provides. The key 
exclusions in relation to this case are:
Exclusions - We will not pay for;
4. any loss or damage away from your home of an item insured unless such item is:
Being worn by you, or
Being carried in your close personal custody and control, or
In a locked safe
Jewellery item(s) insured over GPB £20,000, whether in your home or away from 
home, must be kept in a locked safe when not being worn or carried in your close 
personal custody and control. If you are staying at a hotel. Jewellery item(s) insured 
must be kept in the principal safe of the hotel.
And; 
13. loss or damage from theft from your home unless there is physical 
evidence of violent and forcible entry , or exit from your home. 
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by AXA XL and which Mrs S has been provided 
with. In November 2020 when arranging the renewal of her policy, Mrs S told AXA XL they 
were moving apartment in December 2020 and she would call back to provide details of the 
safe there. 
In December 2020 - after Mrs S and Mr A had moved address - Mrs S called AXA XL. She 
identified that the safe was a £3,000 cash safe. AXA XL explained that this meant the safe 
was suitable for AXA XL to insure valuables up to the value of £30,000 - or £3,000 cash. So AXA XL explained that Mrs Ss engagement ring wouldnt be covered if left in this safe - as it 
was valued at over £30,000.
Mrs S asked if she left the ring in the safe and it was stolen, would she be insured for up to 
£30,000? AXA XL said no, the ring wouldnt be covered. So I think it was made clear to Mrs 
S that her engagement ring wasnt insured if she left it in the safe installed in her apartment 
as it wasnt suitable. 
Mrs S went on to renew her policy with AXA XL. When Mrs S brought her complaint to us, 
she said the safe in her new apartment didnt work - but as AXA XL had told her it wasnt 
suitable, she didnt ask the landlord to fix it. 
In August 2021 Mrs S called AXA XL to add a necklace valued at £2,000 recently bought as 
a gift for her. 
AXA XL read out the 3 scenarios under clauses 4 and 13 as set out under the policy to Mrs 
S in relation to the necklace. Mrs S asked for clarification around having to wear the item 
away from home. At around five mins into the call, AXA XL confirmed that its underwriters 
were happy to provide cover on the same terms and repeated the requirements under 
clauses 4 and 13 to Mrs S. Mrs S replied; sounds good. 
Mrs S told us that because she made AXA XL aware that the safe wasnt suitable, it was for 
it to make appropriate checks. But I dont agree. I think from the policy Statement of Fact this 
showed it was aware that Mrs Ss safe wasnt suitable based on the facts she gave it. The 
Statement of Fact read under the title Property Security:
Have a safe installed? - Disagree
Safe type description - none approved
Safe make and model - none approved
Safe cash rating - none approved
In relation to the necklace, the Statement of Fact read:
The item is permanently worn - Disagree
I think Mrs S knew in December 2020 that the current safe in her new apartment wouldnt 
meet AXA XLs requirements to provide theft cover for her engagement ring. So the onus 
was on Mrs S to take any necessary action here to secure the insured items in line with the 
requirements of the policy. In August 2021 AXA XL confirmed it would add the necklace to 
the policy on the same terms as the engagement ring. So I think AXA XL were clear about 
the clauses that applied as they were explained twice during the call.
Along with the policy documents which sets out the exclusions, AXA XL highlighted both 
clauses for the insured items which Mrs S accepted.
So I think AXA XLs decision to reject Mrs Ss claim was fair and in line with the policy terms. 
AXA XL can reject Mrs Ss claim for this reason only. It doesnt need to rely on both clauses 
to apply in order to reach the decision it has. So irrespective of any findings I may make 
about the security clause, it doesnt change the overall outcome as I agree with the first 
reason AXA XL gave to reject the claim. 
However, Ive looked at photos provided of the window which Mrs S and Mr A say was 
tampered with in order to gain access to their home. AXA XLs exclusion says it will not 
provide cover for a theft claim unless there is physical evidence of violent or forcible entry or 
exit to the home. The apartment is described as being on the third floor. There are no visible 
signs of forcible access to the apartment from the pictures Ive seen. So I cant say that AXA 
XLs decision to reject the claim by applying the security clause of the policy was 
unreasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S and I understand it is very upsetting to be the victim of a 
burglary. But I think AXA XL acted in line with the policy and in a fair way when it rejected 
her claim for the stolen necklace. And so this means Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman