DRN-3195576
The complaint
Mr H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H is a national of a European Union country. In early 2021, he was living and working in
the United Kingdom. His wife was expecting a baby and needed to move back to the EU
county. So they wanted to move their furniture out of their flat and back to the EU. Mr H was
unable to secure this service from a removals company because of continuing restrictions
caused by Covid-19. So he bought a van. It was right-hand drive.
On 15 March 2021, Mr H bought an LV motor insurance policy for the van, with cover to start
from 23 March 2021 for a year.
Mr H loaded the furniture onto the van and on about 25 March 2021, Mr H drove the van to
the EU country. During a telephone call on 25 March 2021, LV said it couldnt continue to 
insure Mr H unless he showed evidence of a valid address in the UK.
On 26 March 2021, LV cancelled the policy. As LV wouldnt reinstate the policy, Mr H later
returned to the UK without the van.
Mr H complained to LV that  because he had to tell other insurers of LVs cancellation  he
couldnt get motor insurance at all and LV had caused him inconvenience.
By a final response in early April 2021, LV turned down Mr Hs complaint. Mr H brought his
complaint to us in May 2021. He said he couldnt sell the right-hand drive van in the EU
country.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
LV had been unreasonable in cancelling the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H  
and to LV on 26 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
I was minded that - when he took out the policy - Mr H made a misrepresentation that 
he was already living at his friends address.
I was not minded to find that LV cancelled the policy unfairly.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from LV, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
LV hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Mr H disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
With all the furniture packed it was not practicable to live in his flat anymore.
He moved to his friends place more than a week before buying his van.
At my request, the investigator wrote to Mr H as follows:
the Ombudsman has said Its compulsory to have insurance for a van being used 
on UK roads. And when you bought the policy on 15 March, you didnt want cover to 
start until 23 March. So they find it likely that you didnt want to drive the van before 
23 March. 
The point of insuring the van was to drive it to move furniture. So they find it likely 
that the furniture was still in your old flat on 23 March. And they dont find it likely that 
you moved out of your old flat before 23 March.
Mr H replied, in summary, as follows:
This is the first time he has heard this argument.
He subscribed to the insurance with a delayed starting day as he wanted to align the 
first day of his insurance with the day he purchased the vehicle. He bought the van 
and started the insurance the same day.
It was not practicable to continue living in this flat, with all the furniture packed. That 
is the reason why he moved to the new flat in advance. Moving takes days and you 
don't start packing on the moving date. He has attached a photo taken the week 
before he moved to illustrate that he wasn't living in the flat at this time.
He had absolutely no incentive to lie.
He just moved to a new address and provided the correct new address to the insurer 
like anyone else. 
The furniture was indeed in the old flat until he moved.
The cancellation was undue and caused major issues to him for which he would like 
to be compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr H took out third party, fire and theft cover. He
estimated that he would drive the van only 1,000 miles in a year. He agreed to pay the yearly
premium by instalments. The policy schedule included the following:
Included as standard
Driving abroad 180 days maximum cover - If you're travelling abroad, please requesta green card from LV.com/green card
Like most insurance policies, LVs provided that it might cancel the policy on seven days
notice. LVs policy terms included the following:
Cancellation
Our rights to cancel your insurance
Well cancel your insurance by giving you 7 days notice if:
we find any misrepresentation or any attempt to gain an advantage under this policy 
to which youre not entitled
you or anyone else insured hasnt met the terms and conditions in this document
including those on your schedule
Mr Hs photograph shows a room full of items ready for removal. But the room looks like a 
living room rather than a bedroom. And the photograph doesnt show beds or bedding. In 
any event the photograph isnt dated. So I dont consider that it shows when Mr H moved out 
of his old flat.
Its compulsory to have insurance for a van being used on UK roads. And when he bought 
the policy on 15 March, Mr H didnt want cover to start until 23 March. So I find it likely that 
he didnt want to drive the van before 23 March. 
The point of insuring the van was to drive it to move furniture. So I find it likely that the 
furniture was still in Mr Hs old flat on 23 March. And I dont find it likely that he moved out of 
his old flat before 23 March.
In his complaint form, Mr H said the following:
The plan was to travel to [EU] and come back to [UK] c.15 days after to sell the van
back, and stay at a friend place (my current address in the UK) for the foreseeable
future.
That didnt say that Mr H had already moved out of his flat and was already living at his 
friends flat before he loaded the van and drove to the EU country.
I dont accept that Mr H had moved in with his friend when he bought the policy or when 
cover started. 
And Mr H intended to drive the van back to the UK for the purpose of selling it as soon as 
possible, rather than to keep the van at his friends address. Mr H mustve intended to cancel 
the policy.
I consider that  when he took out the policy - Mr H made a misrepresentation that he was
already living at his friends address. As he mustve known he hadnt moved to that address,
I consider that he was reckless as to the correctness of the address he gave LV.
From what LV has said about its underwriting criteria, it wouldnt have insured Mr H if it had
known he and his wife were leaving their flat and he hadnt yet moved into his friends flat.
So I consider that Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation under Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Because of that, LV couldve cancelled Mr Hs policy immediately and treated it as void from
the start.
LV cancelled the policy immediately without seven days notice. Mr Hs wife was due to givebirth in the EU country. And Mr H wasnt planning to drive back to the UK for about fifteen
days. So I dont find it likely that he wouldve responded to a seven-day notice by driving the 
van back to the UK. And in any event, LV couldve cancelled Mr Hs policy immediately and
treated it as void from the start. So I dont find that LV cancelled the policy unfairly.
LV sent an email to Mr H on 7 April 2021 including the following:
You were told that you wouldnt need to disclose that youd had a policy cancelled
and felt we were encouraging you to lie. There are a number of reasons why a policy
may be cancelled, voided or declined and the majority of these do need to be
declared, however when a policy is cancelled due to our underwriting criteria you do
not need to inform other insurance companies. Im sorry this was not made clear to
you at the time.
I consider that LV had tried to help Mr H get replacement insurance. LV apologised for not
making the position clear. So I dont consider that LV needs to do any more to put that right.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct LV to pay Mr H compensation or to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman