DRN-3804921
The complaint
Mr C and Ms L complain that they were unable to get information about extending their travel 
insurance from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) when abroad recently and 
as a result lost out financially.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Ms L say that when they were abroad using the travel insurance benefit from their 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) with Halifax, they wanted to extend the time 
period of their cover. 
They say they couldnt get through to the insurance provider on the phone despite trying on 
numerous occasions and waiting a long time. So instead they phoned Halifax, and when 
they got through, they were given the wrong information. As a result, they say they bought 
an alternative travel insurance policy from another provider which they say was expensive 
and they lost out. Mr C and Ms L want the cost of the extra policy they bought refunded and 
compensation for the difficulties they had.
Halifax says it didnt provide the information it could have done about extending the travel 
cover and it offered Mr C and Ms L £40 compensation for poor service. But Halifax says any 
other financial loss or compensation would be the responsibility of the travel insurance 
provider.
Ive listened to the calls made by Ms L to Halifax at the time this happened and considered 
all the representations carefully.
Based on the calls, and the information provided by Halifax about the travel insurance 
companys telephone answering times, I think its more likely than not that Ms L had made 
every effort to get through to the insurance provider and was calling Halifax because she 
couldnt get an answer.
Then, in my view, Halifax didnt give the information that it couldve done, which was that an 
extension was available, and this was poor service.
However, Halifax couldnt have provided the information about the cost of the extension, or 
set up the cover for Mr C and Ms L. For this Mr C and Ms L needed to get through to the 
insurance company. And it was the insurance companys failure to answer the phone which 
appears to have caused Mr C and Ms L difficulties and led them to seek cover elsewhere 
and potentially lose out financially. 
So, in my view they have a potential complaint against the travel insurance company which I 
understand Mr C and Ms L are taking up and can come to this service if unresolved.
After that I have considered redress against Halifax only for the poor service in failing to 
provide the information it did have. And in my view the amount this service would award for 
this type of complaint would not be greater than the £40 Halifax has already offered to Mr C 
and Ms L.
So, as Halifax has offered to pay the £40 for poor service, I dont think Halifax has done 
anything wrong in resolving this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Ms Ls complaint against Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman