DRN-4274663
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society wrongly 
initiated a bereavement protocol on her account.
Mrs B is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs B herself.
What happened
Mrs B says that on 9 December 2022, she received a letter which was addressed to the 
Personal Representatives (of herself). She says the letter offered condolences and details of 
forms to fill in to verify her death. Mrs B has a serious health condition and the letter left her 
extremely distressed. She made an appointment at a Halifax branch, and the branch 
manager confirmed the letter was genuine, but she had never dealt with this matter before. 
She says arrangements were made to reactivate her account, and she asked Halifax a 
number of questions about how this happened, but she has been unable to get an answer 
from Halifax about this. Mrs B made a complaint to Halifax. 
Halifax upheld Mrs Bs complaint and paid her £250. They said the bereavement notification 
had been applied incorrectly by their system. They said when reviewing the data theyve got 
available, in 2002 there was a date of notification applied to her profile. This means that 
when an account was closed, or a joint product has been made sole they will apply a date of 
notification to show this has been done. Halifax said that there were also two profiles within 
their systems with her data, and the date of notification was applied to one of the profiles 
with no other accounts/products listed, and due to this their system has then placed this 
profile into the deceased customers queue.
Halifax said that sometimes with these types of cases they will also review with credit 
reference agencies (CRAs), and if there is any sort of marker on her file (this may be due to 
a family member with a similar name or an incorrect deceased marker being placed on by 
them), this will result in the notification being placed on the account also. Halifax said that 
Mrs B may want to contact the CRAs to ensure her records are up to date with them. They 
said a letter shouldve been issued to Mrs B at the time of notification, on or around 25 July 
2022. But it doesnt appear that this happened. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She said Halifax have told us that Mrs B 
had two profiles on their system, one that was linked to a joint home contents insurance 
policy with another consumer at her home address and another profile with her live banking 
products. She said the joint consumer on the home insurance policy was marked as 
deceased in 2002, which had the old profile for Mrs B linked to that old product. In the 
process of merging customer profiles on their systems, so there were no duplications, this 
resulted in the old profile linked to the home insurance with a deceased marker being 
merged onto the active profile for Mrs B. There was no third party notification in this case 
which resulted in the deceased marker being added, as this was a system error once the 
system identified both the old and new profiles belonging to Mrs B.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she didnt ask Halifax to 
put £250 into her account. Mrs B said that this is not a complaint about punishing Halifax, but 
about finding out their procedures before they send distressing letters, and what protocols 
have been put in place to stop this happening in the future. She also wanted to know how 
many times this has happened in the last two years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive noted the strength of feeling Mrs B has regarding wanting to know Halifaxs procedures 
regarding the bereavement notification, what protocols have been put in place to stop this 
happening in the future, and how many times this has happened in the last two years. But I 
must make it clear to Mrs B that our role is not to make Halifax change the way they act in 
order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator. 
I know this will disappoint Mrs B, but it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
they should operate their bereavement notification procedures, and whether to disclose 
commercially sensitive information about these procedures (such as what their procedures 
are prior to sending out the letters they send or how many people this has affected in the last 
two years). It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
Halifax completed an exercise to merge customer profiles as sometimes they could have 
multiple customer profiles for the same customer. Mrs B was affected by this as she had at 
least two customer profiles. Halifax believe the issue here that affected Mrs B was due to a 
separate profile she had in 2002. Due to the time thats passed, the information Halifax have 
from this timeframe is limited. And they are not required to hold detailed information from 
over 20 years ago. But as our investigator explained to Mrs B, it appears that this is related 
to a joint home insurance policy she had. 
A deceased marker was added when the company involved were notified of the death of the 
joint policy holder on 4 December 2022. So Im persuaded that it could be possible that the 
deceased marker they applied at the time could have been administered incorrectly to cover 
Mrs B also. But because the wider insurance company had more than one customer profile 
for Mrs B, her active policies continued on a separate customer profile. Its probable that 
when Halifax merged Mrs Bs profiles, to avoid duplications on their system, this resulted in 
the old profile linked to the home insurance with a deceased marker attached to it, being 
merged with the active profile for Mrs B.
Ive looked at Mrs Bs customer notes. This shows on 25 July 2022, that this was part of a 
larger project, and her account was to be safeguarded. So it is at this time that Halifax 
should have sent her a letter to verify whether Mrs B had passed away or not. But due to an 
error, this wasnt sent to Mrs B. If the letter had been sent to Mrs B, I dont believe it would 
have been addressed or worded in the way the later letter was worded. I say this because 
the customer note gives instructions to staff if customer or representative calls, so at this 
stage Halifax werent aware if Mrs B had passed away or not and therefore they could 
receive a call from her. 
The next note on their system is dated 21 October 2022. This shows the account had been blocked. The system note appears to show that a tracing exercise had been completed. So 
Im persuaded that this is what led to the bereavement notification being placed on Mrs Bs 
active profile when the multiple profiles were merged. While the note doesnt go into much 
more detail than this, Ive noted Halifax have referred Mrs B to the CRAs in their letter to her 
dated 18 January 2023, as they explained that they also review information with CRAs and 
if there is any sort of marker on her credit file (this could be due to a family member with a 
similar name or an incorrect deceased marker being placed by them), then this will result in 
the notification being placed on the account also. Halifax also say that as they may have 
acted on details that are held on her credit file, and they are not the only financial institution 
that uses this data, then she may want to contact the CRAs to ensure her records are up to 
date with them.
Theres no doubt that what happened here would have been very upsetting to Mrs B, 
especially given her serious health condition. Halifax have made errors which have caused 
distress to Mrs B. While they are entitled to merge customer profiles to avoid duplication, it 
appears they did not follow their process of sending a letter to Mrs B around July 2022 when 
they recognised there could be different information on different profiles. As a result of them 
not sending this letter, then Mrs B didnt have a chance to respond, and this ultimately led to 
the distressing letter they sent, which she received on 9 December 2022. 
This inconvenienced Mrs B as she had to get in touch with Halifax. She visited a Halifax 
branch. The customer notes show she did this on 19 December 2022 and the bereavement 
marker was removed on the same day. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. And Im satisfied that the 
£250 that Halifax paid Mrs B is proportionate for the impact of what happened to her. While 
she didnt ask Halifax to pay this to her, this is in line with our awards for what happened 
here. While the issue was resolved on the day she visited the branch, Im persuaded that the 
letter which she received on 9 December 2022 would have been distressing to her, 
especially given her health issues. She was then inconvenienced to have to put things right 
by visiting a branch, through no fault of her own, especially as Halifax had not sent the letter 
that they said they should have done around July 2022. So Im satisfied that £250 is fair 
compensation. But as Halifax have already paid this to Mrs B, it follows I dont require them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman