DRN-3416697
The complaint
Miss S complained about advice given by a tied adviser from a predecessor business of 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to take out a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
For ease, Ill refer only to Aviva as the relevant business in this decision.  
Miss S is represented in this complaint but again, for ease, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as those of Miss S. 
What happened
Miss S was a teacher and a member of her employers occupational pension scheme. She 
told this Service she wanted to make additional pension contributions with a view to retiring 
at age 50. So in 1992, at the age of 23, Miss S was advised by the Aviva adviser to take out 
an FSAVC plan provided by Aviva. Miss S started making monthly contributions of £35 to the 
FSAVC plan at the start of 1993. 
Miss S again met with a broker tied to Aviva in 1999 and increased her FSAVC pension 
contributions.
Miss S complained to Aviva in February 2021 about the suitability of the advice given to her 
by the Aviva adviser in 1992.
Aviva responded to Miss Ss complaint and said its advisor recommended a product that 
was suitable for Miss Ss needs. It said in 1999 it fulfilled its requirement to refer Miss S to 
her employers pension scheme for information about alternative Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) schemes. Aviva said if Miss S didnt recall that its adviser discussed both 
the FSAVC and the in-house AVC options available to her at the original sale, then it was 
reasonable for Miss S to have raised any concerns within three years of the sale in 1999. So 
Aviva told Miss S it thought her complaint was raised out of time.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this Service. She said if she had 
been aware of a reason to complain in 1999 then she would have stopped contributing to her 
FSAVC at that point. She didnt think enough was done by Aviva in either 1992 or 1999 to 
raise her awareness of any critical issues, namely the difference in charges and the 
detrimental effect that this would have. Miss S said she only became aware of a problem in 
2020, when she saw a claims management company advertisement on television. 
Our Investigator thought Miss Ss complaint was not one we could look into as it had been 
brought out of time. Looking at the rules under which we operate, they said the complaint 
was made more than six years after the advice to take out an FSAVC was given. Our 
Investigator said that when Aviva provided Miss S with further advice in 1999, she was given 
a factsheet that provided an overview of the AVC scheme, provided a generic comparison 
and directed Miss S to contact her employers scheme administrators for further details of 
the AVC scheme. So they thought this information should have alerted Miss S that there 
may have been a problem with the advice given and so she should have been aware at that 
point in time that she had cause for complaint. 
Miss S was unhappy with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted Aviva and told it I intended to come to a different conclusion to that of our 
Investigator and say this Service could look into Miss Ss complaint. I said while I could see 
Miss S had been provided with a leaflet about the various pension contribution options, I 
couldnt see that these had been discussed with her. So I told Aviva I intended to say its 
adviser didnt do enough in 1999 to draw Miss Ss attention to the alternatives to taking out 
an FSAVC. 
I also told Aviva I had looked at the merits of Miss Ss complaint and intended to uphold it, as 
I thought if the advice given to Miss S in 1992 and 1999 had been compliant, then it was 
likely she would not have taken out an FSAVC, as her employers in-house AVC was likely a 
better option that offered lower charges. I asked Aviva to provide a copy of the 1999 
suitability letter, as well as a copy of the complaint submitted by Miss S to it in 2021.  
Aviva responded and said it was unable to provide the 1999 suitability letter. But it thought 
the information already provided showed that the advice given in 1999 was compliant. It said 
the document signed by Miss S in 1999 confirmed the options available to her for increasing 
her pension. It also said Miss S would have been provided with details of her employers in-
house pension scheme when she joined her occupational pension scheme. It felt it was 
reasonable that Miss S raised concerns within three years of the advice in 1999. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2022 that repeated what I had earlier said to 
Aviva about this Service being able to look into the complaint, and I said I intended to uphold 
the complaint. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. Miss S responded and agreed 
with what was outlined in my provisional decision. 
Aviva also responded and didnt agree with the provisional decision. It said the sales process 
would often involve an initial meeting by phone to establish a consumers main objectives 
and then a final meeting where documentation would be signed. It said its advisor was 
expected to ask consumers to contact their employer / scheme to find out about the in-house 
AVC prior to the final meeting. So Aviva said its reasonable to assume the advisor 
discussed the information provided at the meeting, including about the in-house AVC 
options. Aviva said there wasnt any additional information the advisor could have 
documented in a Reasons Why letter. So it didnt think there was anything else the advisor 
could or should have done to draw Miss Ss attention to the alternative in-house scheme. 
Aviva also pointed to previous decisions issued by this Service where it said similar 
complaints were not upheld. 
I am now in a position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss S and Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. When it responded to my provisional decision Aviva provided details of other decisions 
issued by this Service which it thought were similar to this, but where a different outcome 
had been reached. Each individual complaint brought to this Service is considered on its 
own merits and a decision is made based on the particular circumstances of each complaint. 
While some complaints may seem similar, its the case that there are often key differences in 
the complainants individual circumstances and the evidence that this Service has been 
provided with by both parties. In this case, my decision is based on the particular 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint. 
I know Miss S wants this service to consider the merits of her complaint against Aviva, but I 
have to first of all look at whether this Service can consider the complaint. Having reviewed 
everything provided by all parties, Im satisfied that Miss Ss complaint was brought to this 
Service in time and its one I can look into. Ill explain why. 
Our Service can consider a wide variety of complaints about financial services, but we arent 
free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out what complaints 
we can consider are the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authority 
handbook.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2 R) says we cannot consider a complaint, unless the business 
consents, if it was referred to us more than:  
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R was as a result of exceptional circumstances 
Ive looked first of all at DISP 2.8.2 (a), and Im satisfied that Miss Ss complaint about the 
suitability of the advice given to her by Aviva in 1992  that Aviva didnt provide her with 
enough information about in-house AVCs for her to make an informed decision  was made 
more than six years after that event. Miss S didnt complain to Aviva until February 2021. So 
Im satisfied Miss Ss complaint was not made in time under the six year part of the DISP 
rules. 
Ive then looked at DISP 2.8.2 (b), namely, when Miss S became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint. 
Aviva considers that Miss S was given enough information during the sale in 1999 to make 
her aware of any concerns about the earlier sale. So it considers the complaint about both 
sales has been made too late as they werent raised within three years of 1999. However, 
Miss L is complaining that she wasnt given sufficient information in 1999 during the sale, so 
that sale needs to be considered, in order to see if it was compliant. Only after it has been 
determined whether the 1999 sale was compliant, will I be able to determine if the complaint 
about the earlier sale has been made out of time. 
Put simply, if Im satisfied Miss S was properly informed about the important differences 
between the in-house scheme and the FSAVC in 1999  then Id agree that the complaint 
about the earlier sale would have been made too late. But if I conclude that Miss S wasnt 
properly informed, it follows that the argument that she ought to have been aware of having 
cause for complaint about the earlier sale would be undermined. So, given the nature of the time bar objection raised, the matter of the sale in 1999 needs to be settled before I can 
consider our jurisdiction to consider the sale in 1992 or the merits of that case.
Due to the passage of time, Aviva has been able to provide some, but not all, of the 
documentation relating to both meetings. 
Looking at the 1999 sale, by this time the Aviva advisor had to follow the rules set in 1988 by 
LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation), as well as those set 
out in the regulatory update (RU20) that had been issued by the then regulator (the Personal 
Investment Authority or PIA). This said that before an adviser sold an FSAVC they should 
have: 
Drawn the consumers attention to the in-scheme alternative;
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms;
Directed the consumer to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option. 
Ive looked at the leaflet provided by the Aviva adviser to Miss S in 1999. This provided a 
generic outline of the three options available to Miss S at that point in time to increase her 
pension. This included that FSAVC charges might be higher than in-house scheme charges. 
While I think its fair to say the leaflet drew Miss Ss attention to the in-house scheme 
alternative and directed her to her employer for more information about their scheme, I 
havent been provided with evidence that suggests the differences between the FSAVC and 
AVC routes were discussed with her. The PIA regulations say the Aviva adviser would have 
been expected to do this before an FSAVC was sold.
I would have expected the suitability letter, which should have been drawn up at the time, to 
outline the discussion between the adviser and Miss S about the differences between the 
options available to her. But Aviva hasnt been able to provide a copy of this, and without it I 
cant know what was discussed. 
The declaration on the leaflet signed by Miss S doesnt tell me anything about whether the 
options were discussed with her. 
The declaration says Miss S had the opportunity to obtain details of her Scheme AVC and its 
charges and had compared them to the FSAVC option, and having done so she decided to 
proceed with the FSAVC application. I said in my provisional decision that I couldnt see how 
Miss S would have had the opportunity to do this as there appears to have been only one 
meeting between Avivas representative and Miss S  all documents are dated 12 May 1999. 
Aviva responded and said there might well have been a phone conversation between Miss S 
and its advisor prior to the final meeting, and it says its advisor would have been expected to 
ask their consumer to contact their employer or scheme to find out about the in-house option 
prior to the final meeting. 
The issue here is whether the advisor discussed the options with Miss S  this is what was 
required under PIA rules. While I appreciate the expectations Aviva may have placed on its 
advisors about discussing in-house options, the declaration signed by Miss S only evidences 
that she was provided with the leaflet, it doesnt tell us anything about what the advisor did to 
discuss the options with her. 
So, from the limited evidence Ive been provided with, I cant see that enough was done to 
draw Miss Ss attention to the alternatives to taking out an FSAVC. I think more needed to 
be done than simply providing her with a leaflet about other options, which she might well not have had a chance to fully investigate before opting to increase payments to the FSAVC. 
This means Im not persuaded Miss S was provided with enough information, in line with the 
PIA rules, to enable her to make a fully informed decision about whether to take the FSAVC 
or join her in-house AVC. 
Had the 1999 sale been compliant, and Miss S provided with the information she should 
have been provided with about alternative options, then I think its more likely than not she 
would not have opted to take out an FSAVC. It appears that for someone in Miss Ss position 
an in-house AVC seems to have been a better option that offered lower charges. I cant see 
any reason at this stage why Miss S would have opted for an FSAVC that cost more. So Im 
satisfied the 1999 FSAVC plan was mis-sold to Miss S. 
Because Im not satisfied Miss S was provided with sufficient information during the 1999 
sale, it follows that I dont think she would have been aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, that she had cause for complaint about the earlier sale in 1992. Ive not seen 
anything else that would lead me to conclude Miss S was aware of the cause for complaint 
for more than three years before she complained. So Im satisfied the complaint about the 
1992 sale has been made in time. As such, Ive gone on to look into the merits of the 1992 
sale.
In 1992, the Aviva advisor had to follow the rules set in 1988 by LAUTRO (the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). These rules said, amongst other things, 
that advisers should exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with consumers. 
This means having regard to any rights under occupational pension schemes and providing 
consumers with relevant information. So, while I wouldnt expect the advisor to know what 
precisely would have been offered to Miss S under her employers in-house AVC scheme, I 
would expect a tied advisor to mention the generic benefits of such schemes. 
Having looked at the documentation available from 1992, I cant see anything that suggests 
Miss S was provided with any information by the adviser about alternative options. I know 
that Aviva has said the alternatives were discussed, but that discussion is not documented. 
At this stage, given how long its been since the advice was given, Aviva can only assume 
the adviser provided Miss S with the information they should have provided her with but, 
without this being documented, it cant know for certain that it happened. So I am placing 
more weight on what the documentation completed in 1992 tells me. As this doesnt mention 
the alternative options being discussed, Im satisfied Miss S most likely wasnt provided with 
enough information in 1992 about other options. 
If the advice given to Miss S in 1992 had been compliant, and she was provided with the 
information she should have been provided with about alternative options, then I think its 
more likely than not she would not have opted to take out an FSAVC. Ive considered 
Miss Ss circumstances at the time she was first advised in 1992 to take out an FSAVC and I 
havent seen anything to make me think the FSAVC plan would have been more beneficial 
for her  an in-house AVC seems to have been a better option that offered lower charges. I 
cant see any reason at this stage why Miss S would have opted for an FSAVC that cost 
more. So Im satisfied the 1992 FSAVC plan was mis-sold to Miss S. 
Some occupational pension schemes offered an alternative to AVCs known as added years, 
where additional contributions could be used to purchase additional years of service in the 
occupational scheme. I havent seen anything conclusive to show whether that option was 
available in Miss Ss occupational scheme. Nor have I seen anything that makes me safely 
conclude that option would have been the most beneficial for Miss S. And when Miss S 
brought her complaint to this Service, it was in relation to not being provided with information 
about the in-house AVC scheme, and not added years. So I am not considering that 
alternative any further here.Putting things right
I think that if Aviva had provided enough information to Miss S in 1992 and then again in 
1999, she would have most likely started making contributions to her employers AVC 
scheme rather than taking a FSAVC plan. 
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter. 
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ss complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to take the 
actions outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman