DRN-3406570
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) handling of her motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ms Ts daughter, a named driver on Ms Ts policy, was unfortunately involved in a road 
traffic accident whilst driving the insured vehicle.
When Ms T made a claim on her policy Admiral deemed the vehicle a total loss. They 
agreed to settle the claim for the market value of her vehicle which they said was £5240.
Ms T was unhappy with the amount offered because it didnt allow her to replace her vehicle 
like for like. Ms T was also unhappy with a number of other actions taken by Admiral 
throughout the handling of her claim, so she raised a complaint.
As no resolution could be reached Ms T referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Shortly after this Admiral gave Ms T their final response to her complaint addressing 
the 11 complaint points raised. 
Admiral didnt agree theyd done anything wrong when reaching a valuation for Ms Ts 
vehicle, so they didnt uphold this complaint point. They said after completing all necessary 
investigations, theyd provided her with the highest justifiable figure.
Because the claim had been progressed as straight to salvage Admiral said they werent 
required to provide an engineers report in the first instance. However, that when they did 
complete one on Ms Ts request, they were satisfied it outlined the cost of repairs to her 
vehicle.
Ms T also complained she wasnt given the option to retain her vehicle. But Admiral said it 
wasnt in their process to offer their customers the option to do this unless specifically asked.
Regarding Ms T being refused entry on arrival to the recovery agents, Admiral said they 
werent responsible for the actions of a third-party company. Nor did they accept 
responsibility for any damage caused by the recovery agents because they pay the full 
market value for the vehicle at the stage, they deem it a total loss.
But Admiral agreed Ms T had been incorrectly informed her premium for the remainder of 
her policy didnt need to be paid. They upheld this complaint point referring to compensation 
shed previously received during the initial stages of their investigation.
Admiral also agreed their advisor had told Ms T no outstanding premium was owed when in 
fact one months premium of £69.46 was due. And when this was unsuccessfully taken it 
was recorded against Ms Ts credit file history and caused their collections department to 
contact her. 
Admiral upheld these complaint points and agreed to write of the outstanding £69.46 which 
would reflect on Ms Ts credit file history. They also paid her £150 compensation.
Ms T remained unhappy so one of our investigators looked into things. But he said he was 
satisfied Admiral had offered a fair market value for her vehicle inline with the terms of her 
policy. 
In addition, our investigator didnt think Admiral had needed to produce an engineers report 
due to it having been already agreed the vehicle would be considered a total loss. And when 
they did, despite acknowledging the report contained errors, he was satisfied it confirmed 
Admirals decision to write-off Ms Ts vehicle.
Regarding Admirals offer of compensation for the upheld elements of Ms Ts complaint, our 
investigator said he thought the £150 paid was fair, so he didnt think they needed to take 
any further action.
Ms T disagreed saying our investigator had overlooked a number of issues she considered 
unresolved with Admiral. Ms T has explained that of the 11 complaint points investigated by 
Admiral, ten remain unresolved to her satisfaction.
As Ms T remained unhappy her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms T and Admiral my provisional decision on 2 March 2022. I explained why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
First, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, and 
Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vehicle Valuation
Im aware the unique colour of Ms Ts vehicle meant a lot to her. It was clearly an important 
feature for her to include when looking for a replacement.
And certain features such as colour can mean sellers can ask a higher price due to lesser 
availability within the market. Unfortunately, that isnt something I can take into account 
when deciding if Admiral offered a fair and reasonable value for Ms Ts vehicle.
Our investigator has explained our approach to vehicle valuations in that our role is not to tell 
an insurer the value of a particular vehicle, valuing a second hand car isnt an exact science, 
instead it is to assess if the offer made by the insurer is fair and reasonable.
The terms of Ms Ts policy say if Admiral settle a claim by paying a cash sum, the most they 
will pay is the market value of the vehicle. The terms go on to define the market value as 
the cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. The policy terms dont agree to 
fund an exact like for like replacement to be obtained.
Id expect Admiral to use industry trade guides as this is the industry standard. The guides 
determine the market value by looking at many factors including actual selling prices of cars. 
I can see that Admiral looked at two trade guides when reaching their valuation. And it paid 
the higher of the values it found.
Ive also looked at the same trade guides, and one other. Two of these guides do require the 
colour of the vehicle to be specified when a valuation is obtained. And Im satisfied the 
£5,240 Admiral paid represents a fair market value, when looking across the trade guides, 
including taking into consideration the colour of the vehicle. 
Ive seen the advertisements Ms T provided for a range of vehicles closely matching the 
specifications of her own. Often advertised prices are inflated to allow for negotiation, so its 
unlikely the advertised price is the actual price a vehicle was sold for. Thats why the 
Financial Ombudsman Service think trade guides can give a better indication of what the 
true market value is.In summary, Admiral has used trade guides to determine the market value of Ms Ts vehicle. 
The payment it made is in line with the trade guides Ive looked at, so I think they have acted 
fairly and reasonably, and I wont be asking them to increase their valuation.
Engineers report and damage to the vehicle
Im aware Ms T feels she shouldve been provided with an engineers report from the outset 
and is unhappy that wasnt the case.
Admiral have explained Ms Ts claim was dealt with as a straight to salvage case. This 
means a decision was made based off the description of the vehicles damage and the 
circumstances of the accident. Because of this, I think its understandable an engineers 
report wouldnt be produced straight away  the decision to write-off the vehicle had already 
been made.
I understand Ms T disputes she agreed to this. She says she was unable to describe any 
damage as shed not seen her vehicle. But Ive listened to the call where Ms T notifies 
Admiral of the accident. During which Ms T gives a brief description of the damage including 
that the vehicle had gone into a ditch and ended up on its roof.
Admirals advisor explains because the vehicle ended up on its roof its likely to be a total 
loss. He then explained they would deal with the vehicle as a total loss, meaning theyd look 
to instruct one of their salvage agents to collect the vehicle and their total loss team would 
be in touch to discuss a settlement with Ms T.
The agent asked Ms T if she was happy for them to do that and get the vehicle collected or 
did she want to look at it first. Ms T confirmed she didnt, and it was fine.
So, Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly and reasonably by progressing Ms Ts claim as a total 
loss based on what they knew about both the vehicle damage and the circumstances of the 
incident.
Because the case was dealt with this way its understandable a full engineers report wasnt 
produced. The vehicle was never recovered to a garage as the decision to treat it as a total 
loss had already been made.
Ms T did ask for a report to be provided and I acknowledge she feels the report produced 
was doctored by Admiral and is therefore fraudulent. 
Admiral have explained a desk-based report completed by an engineer reviewing images of 
the vehicle was produced after a request for a report by Ms T. Theyve said the report 
provides an example of the minimum work and associated costs to repair the vehicle 
however should the vehicle have been placed on a ramp for a full inspection the cost of 
repairs wouldve increased significantly. In any case the cost of initial repairs listed exceed 
the value placed on the vehicle.
Regarding the validity of the report, Admiral acknowledge the engineer has used a previous 
report for branding purposes and failed to delete some of the details relating the previous 
vehicle. 
Admiral have confirmed the assessment and estimated repair costs within the report relate 
to Ms Ts vehicle. On balance, whilst I think the error of leaving in detail unrelated to Ms Ts 
vehicle is somewhat unprofessional at best, Im satisfied the report itself provided relates to 
Ms Ts vehicle.
Recovery Agent
I can understand how frustrating it would have been for Ms T to have tried to collect her 
belongings only to be refused access to them on arrival. In addition, then having to wait to 
get her items back wasnt ideal.However, Admiral arent affiliated to the recovery agent the vehicle was taken to. So, whilst I 
agree it was Admirals advisor that suggested Ms T should collect her belongings, they cant 
be expected to directly control the actions of a third-party company.
That said I can see Admiral offered Ms T £50 compensation by way of an apology for any 
distress and inconvenience travelling across counties caused her and Im please her 
belongings have since been returned. So, whilst Im not persuaded Admiral did anything 
wrong, I think their offer to compensate Ms T was fair, reflecting there was clearly a 
misunderstanding to which their advisor played some part. And Im satisfied the £50 offered 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Outstanding Premium
It isnt in dispute errors were made by Admiral when it came to initially telling Ms T no 
outstanding premium was owed when it was. And then again recording on Ms Ts credit file 
history a premium of £69.46 as being outstanding after being told no payment was due.
Ms T is unhappy with the amount of compensation paid by Admiral in relation to these 
errors, so Ive considered whats happened what Admiral have done to put things right.
Ms T was initially told by one of Admirals advisors that after making the claim and the policy 
being cancelled as of that point, that no outstanding premiums were due. This was incorrect 
and the outstanding amount of £267.19 was deducted from the settlement figure paid for her 
vehicle.
The terms of Ms Ts policy say when suffering a total loss of your car 
If your car is beyond economic repaid, all cover, including the driving of other cars extension 
if applicable, will be cancelled for you and any other drivers on the policy. Once we make a 
payment to you, your car will become our property. We will deduct any outstanding premium 
and charges owed from any claim settlement we make to you
Admiral also explained to Ms T that should she replace her vehicle she could utilise the 
remaining months of the policy to insure it providing she paid an administration fee to add 
the new vehicle on.
So, I think Admiral acted reasonably by deducting the amount from Ms Ts settlement  she 
owed the amount in line with the terms of her policy. But being told she didnt owe it wouldve 
no doubt caused her some distress and inconvenience.
To recognise their error, Admiral offered her £25 in compensation. They also offered a 
further £50 to recognise Ms Ts policy was cancelled before notification it would be 
happening was sent out.
Ms T didnt accept Admiral initial offer. She said if this compensation, together with the £50 
offered for the inconvenience of her travelling to the recovery company, could be increased 
to £267.19  effectively cancelling out the premium owed  she would agree to consider 
these complaint points resolved.
Admiral agreed to increase their offer and paid £267.19 to Ms T. Im satisfied the level of 
compensation paid, which Ms T requested, is fair and reasonable considering the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding the later payment, Admiral acknowledge their advisor told Ms T she didnt owe 
any further outstanding amount. So, I can understand Ms Ts frustration when she received 
calls from their collections department and an outstanding amount of £69.46 was recorded 
against her credit file history. Ms T says this affected her credit rating, something shed 
worked hard to build up.
Again, it isnt in dispute Admiral provided Ms T incorrect information, be so Ive looked at 
what theyve done to put things right.Admiral wrote off the amount of £69.46 and confirmed this would reflect as such on her 
credit file history within the 30 days that followed. Ive not seen any reason to think Ms Ts 
credit file history is still being negatively impacted as a result of this.
In addition, to recognise their error, Admiral paid Ms T a further £150 compensation. 
Together with the outstanding balance having been written off, Im satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable resolution given the circumstances of this complaint, so I wont be asking 
Admiral to do anything more. 
Option to retain the vehicle
Admiral say its not their policy to offer their customers to retain their vehicles from salvage 
which is in line with the industry standard.
While I dont think thats unfair, the Financial Ombudsman Service would expect an insurer 
to allow this if asked by the policy holder. 
Ms T questioned why she wasnt given the option to buy back her vehicle in emails to 
Admiral in February 2021. Later that month, in their response to her complaint, Admiral 
provided Ms T a telephone number to contact should she wish to discuss retaining her 
vehicle from salvage.
Ms T feels she shouldve been given this option proactively. However, Im satisfied Admiral 
acted fairly and reasonably when Ms T showed an intention retaining her vehicle was 
something she might want to do. I can also see Admiral explained the full salvage value 
would apply.
In summary, where I do find Admiral couldve handled Ms Ts claim better, they have paid 
Ms T a total of £417.19. In addition, theyve written off an outstanding premium of £69.46. I 
find this a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint and I do not require Admiral to 
pay Ms T any further compensation.
Neither Ms T nor Admiral responded to my provisional decision straightaway, so our 
Investigator sent a further copy on 16 March 2022. Admiral confirmed they had no further 
comments or evidence for consideration. Ms T didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further following my provisional decision, Ive seen no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached previously. For the reasons set 
out above in my provisional decision, I dont consider that Admiral needs to do anything 
more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman