DRN-2275479
The complaint
Ms R complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) settled her 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ms R has a car insurance policy underwritten by UKI. In July 2019 she was involved in a 
collision as she pulled out of her parking space. Ms R provided UKI with witness names and 
her account of how the collision happened. She accepted she may be partially at fault but 
believes the claim shouldve been settled as a 50/50 split in liability.
UKI settled the claim in full and explained that Ms R would be held at fault for the accident. It 
said that the information it had showed Ms R was likely at fault as she was pulling out of a 
parking space whilst the third party was established on the road.
Ms R complained. She explained that she felt the third party was driving too fast along the 
road and she said she may not have been concentrating. Ms R also said the third party was 
on the wrong side of the road as they had overtaken a stationary van. She believes this 
shows that she wasnt the only party at fault. She also explained she was unhappy at how 
much UKI paid out for the claim, and that she would have to pay excess if she were to get 
her car repaired.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. He explained that it was up to UKI to 
determine how to settle a claim and he didnt think it had acted unreasonably in reaching its 
decision to settle on a fault basis based on the evidence it had. He explained that as this 
was an insurance claim, it was fair that Ms R would be charged her excess if she wanted her 
vehicle repaired.
Ms R disagreed with the investigator. She explained that she should be held only 50% at 
fault because the third party was in the wrong lane when the incident occurred. She also 
feels the third party was driving too fast. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to decide who was at fault in this accident, that is an issue better suited to a
court of law. My role here is to look at whether UKI was reasonable when it reached
its decision to settle the claim in the way it did.
I can see that when Ms R told UKI about the incident it noted down the circumstances. Ms R 
said it happened as she was coming out of her parking space. She provided witness contact 
details and UKI contacted the witness  which is what Id expect it to do.
UKI reached its decision to settle the claim on a fault basis because the witness testimony 
and Ms Rs own account of the events suggested that she was at fault. The incident 
happened when she was pulling out of a parking space and the third party was already 
established on the road. 
I understand Ms R believes the third party was driving too fast but UKI has confirmed there 
is no way of knowing this was the case. There isnt any CCTV or speed cameras. The 
witness said it wasnt possible to say if the third party was breaking the speed limit. I also 
know Ms R is unhappy that the third party was on the wrong side of the road at the time. I 
understand that there was a stationary van which the third party had to overtake, and which 
couldve obstructed Ms Rs view at the time. UKI has said that it doesnt matter what side of 
the road the collision took place, it based its decision on the fact that Ms R was pulling out of 
a parking space and the third party was established on the road.
UKI has shown us that it assessed the evidence and spoke to its experts before it decided to 
accept liability. This is what Id expect. I know Ms R feels that her legal cover should allow 
her to challenge the decision but UKI has confirmed that its legal team doesnt think the 
claim could be defended in court. It was this reason that it accepted liability for the accident. 
And the legal cover that Ms R has is for losses that arent covered by her insurance  not for 
her to challenge the decision on liability that UKI has made.
The terms of Ms Rs policy say that UKI is entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, 
defence or settlement of any claim in Ms Rs name or anyone else covered by the policy. 
This means its for UKI to determine how to settle the claim. In this case it decided that 
based on the evidence Ms R was at fault and I cant say its done this unfairly. 
Ms R is unhappy at the amount of money UKI paid out to the third party for the claim. This is 
something that UKI can decide based on the evidence of loss from the third party and it isnt 
something that it has to agree with Ms R beforehand. I can see that UKI told Ms R that she 
was able to claim for the damage on her vehicle also but shed have to pay her £350 excess. 
This is in line with the terms of Ms Rs policy so its not unreasonable that shed have to pay 
her excess if shed like her car repaired as part of the claim.
In summary, Ive not seen anything to suggest that UKI acted unfairly when it accepted 
liability for Ms Rs collision. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman