DRN-2476828
The complaint
Mrs J is a sole trader and complains that Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) have mishandled 
her business interruption claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. However, in essence Mrs J is unhappy with the way Zurich have handled her 
claim for contents and business interruption following a fire in the flat above her business 
premises on 21 March 2020, which caused damage. 
Zurich have not yet agreed to indemnify the claim, and Mrs J submits that they have been 
making unreasonable requests for information and have delayed the progression of her 
claim. She complains that Zurich are asking for the entire claim presentation before 
engaging policy liability, and says she has provided everything theyve asked for, yet they 
still wont confirm if the claim is covered or not. Mrs J says that once a decision on policy 
liability is made, then the full claim presentation can be made as per standard industry 
practice.
Zurich issued their final response on 12 August 2020. They said that following further 
enquiries, concerns had arisen regarding the accuracy of the information and 
representations made by Mrs J at inception and renewal of the policy, and they believe that 
several misrepresentations had been made, such as whether the information regarding the 
occupancy of the flats were accurate. One other key concern the insurer had was whether 
Mrs Js husband (Mr J) had any involvement in the running of the business, as they noted 
he had entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) shortly after the policy was 
renewed. Zurich suspected that Mr J was one of the directing minds of the business and said 
that Mrs J had failed to declare this information at the point of renewal.
Zurich said that the information regarding Mr Js impending IVA would have been of material 
interest to the underwriters in their assessment of the risk, so they asked Mrs J to provide full 
details of the IVA, as well as a mandate allowing the Insolvency Practitioner to release full 
information to them. As well as details of the IVA, Zurich also requested details regarding the 
occupancy history of the address, utility bills for the business and flat above, as well as other 
mandates allowing them to approach various other third parties.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaints. She considered that the information 
requested by Zurich was reasonable and that they were entitled to assess the validity of the 
policy. She also thought that their requests regarding information relating to Mr Js IVA were 
reasonably based on the evidence presented by Zurich. Mrs J disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
First, I am aware that much has happened in relation to Mrs Js claim since the complaint 
was brought to this service in August 2020. But as part of the scope of this complaint, I can 
only consider the matters that were complained about and responded to in Zurichs final 
response of 12 August 2020. Any concerns that have arisen after this point will need to form 
the basis of a separate complaint, which Zurich will need to have time to fully respond to. 
Its also important to note that the claim has not actually been declined, so I also will not be 
commenting on any hypothetical scenarios regarding whether or not it would be fair for an 
insurer to decline the claim or avoid cover on any particular basis. As such, the key issue to 
be determined in this complaint is whether Zurich has acted reasonably in their handling of 
the claim up until the point the final response was issued, including whether the information 
theyve requested is reasonable and proportionate to assess the claim and policy validity.
The terms and conditions set out that the insured must:
supply at your own expense, full details of the claim in writing including any 
supporting evidence and information that we require within the following periods:
i) 7 days for damage by riot or civil, labour or political disturbances or vandals 
or malicious people;
ii) 30 days after the expiry of the indemnity period under section B
N o. 17  Business Interruption and Book Debts
iii) 30 days after any other damage, interruption or bodily injury
Contrary to Mrs Js submissions, I do not think this term is ambiguous or unclear. It entitles 
the insurer to request information regarding the claim  including any supporting evidence 
and information that Zurich may require. If circumstances have come to light that lead the 
insurer to believe that the original risk may have been misrepresented and conditions not 
complied with, then I consider that this term entitles them to request information relating to 
that as part and parcel of assessing the claim. However, such requests must still be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Zurich say that Mrs J has failed to provide various items of requested 
information/documentation  such as mandates allowing them to carry out further 
investigations with third parties. I note that Mrs J has provided some of the information 
requested of her, such as energy statements and details of the estate agent. But she has 
said that full claim presentation will only be provided once policy liability is engaged  
thereby making the provision of further information conditional on Zurichs acceptance of 
liability. But Im afraid it does not work this way. If an insurer has reasonable grounds for 
suspecting that the information they have based their decision on at inception/renewal was 
not correct or had been misrepresented, then I think they are fairly entitled to pursue 
reasonable lines of enquiry to determine the validity of the policy before deciding whether to 
engage cover and indemnify the claim. We wouldnt fairly and reasonably ask them to ignore 
such concerns and agree to provide indemnity when there is the potential that cover may be 
avoided all together, should their concerns prove to be true.
Mrs J says it isnt fair that shes being asked to provide information about the claim as well 
as the overall validity of the policy because she may end up wasting time gathering 
information just for the claim to be declined. I appreciate this could potentially happen; there 
is a risk with any insurance claim that after spending time and effort gathering information 
that it may subsequently be declined. But the onus is on the policyholder to prove the claim, 
and also to prove that they have complied with the terms and conditions of the policy. As 
part of Zurichs assessment of the claim, it makes sense that at the same time they would seek to ensure that other terms and conditions have been complied with  such as the 
condition to disclose/not misrepresent any material facts at inception and renewal of the 
policy:
a) At inception and renewal of this policy and also whenever changes are made to it at 
your request you must:
i) disclose to us all material facts in a clear and accessible manner; and
ii) not misrepresent any material facts
So I dont think its unreasonable for Zurich to have requested all the information together, 
because part of assessing the claim is also ensuring that other conditions (such as the one 
above) have been complied with. An insurer would also not be expected to make a decision 
on whether to indemnify a claim before they have had sight of all the relevant information in 
order to properly assess it. So I dont think Zurich have treated Mrs J unfairly simply by 
asking her to provide information relating to the claim as well as representation of the risk at 
renewal. 
Ive also considered whether the information Zurich has requested is reasonable, such as 
that relating to Mr Js solvency at the point of renewal as well as the occupancy status of the 
flat above the business premises. 
Zurich say that a statement of fact was issued at inception and subsequent renewal of the 
policy whereby Mrs J confirmed her agreement to the following statements:
Youve never:
Been made bankrupt.
Had a receiver or liquidator appointed.
Entered an individual or company voluntary arrangement (IVA or CVA).
The statement of fact confirms that questions about you and your include anyone 
involved in the running of the business (e.g. family members and business partners). They 
say that they have reason to suspect that Mr J was involved in the running of the business 
rather than simply being an employee, and that he had entered into an IVA on 25 October 
2019, which was shortly after the policy was renewed in September 2019. Zurich submit that 
it is likely Mr and Mrs J would have been aware of the impending IVA at the time of renewal 
as these negotiations can take a while to conclude. So they say that the reasonable 
policyholder would have thought this to have been material to the insurer given that they had 
asked about anyone running the business being involved in the IVA, such that they ought to 
have readily volunteered this information. As a result, they have asked for full details of 
Mr Js IVA including a mandate that allows them to approach his Insolvency Practitioner for 
the purposes of their investigation.
Mrs J denies that Mr J was involved in the running of the business and says that Zurich have 
based this purely on a hunch. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think there is enough 
prima facie evidence to call into question Mr Js true role in the business, and therefore 
whether there has been a fair presentation of the risk at renewal because at that point he 
may have been in the process of discussing/concluding the arrangements of his IVA. 
Its important to note that I am not making any finding in this decision on whether it would be 
fair and reasonable for Zurich to avoid cover on this basis, as it may well be that they are 
wrong about their belief in Mr J being involved in the running of the business, as well as what 
stage he was at in terms of concluding the IVA at the point the policy was renewed. But, 
based on what Ive seen, I consider it is at least a reasonable line of enquiry for Zurich to pursue and in which to request further information. I think they had reasonable grounds for 
suspecting that information could have been withheld at renewal that may have been 
material to the insurer in determining whether to provide cover. So Im satisfied that Zurich 
have not acted unfairly by seeking to investigate this further. If Mrs J provides all the 
information in this regard and Zurich subsequently seek to avoid cover on this basis, she 
may be able to refer a complaint about this back to this service, where we could at that stage 
consider if it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer to take such action. 
I also understand that Zurich had concerns regarding the information they were given 
regarding the occupancy status of the flat above the business premises, as Mrs J had also 
confirmed in her statement of fact that there were no unoccupied flats above the business. 
But Zurich have received information that would suggest the property was not occupied at 
the time the lease was entered into, contrary to the statement of fact. So I also consider this 
to be a reasonable line of enquiry for the insurer to take and in which to request further 
information. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the information requested by Zurich up until their final response in 
August 2020 is reasonable and proportionate in order to properly assess the claim and 
validate cover. So Im not persuaded theyve treated Mrs J unfairly by refusing to make any 
payments until they receive the necessary information and evidence theyve requested (and 
are entitled to request under the policy terms and conditions). So, in order to move things 
forward, it will be incumbent on Mrs J to comply with the insurers requests. 
Mrs J has also complained about delays in Zurich responding to emails and 
correspondence, as well as how they were slow to send out a forensic expert to examine the 
property after the fire. I can see that there was a delay in the expert attending, and that there 
were sometimes delays in the insurer responding to emails. But I also note that the claim 
was instigated in March 2020 which was when the country was first placed into lockdown as 
a result of the Coronavirus pandemic, where most things were unfortunately subject to 
delays while the country adjusted to working safely and remotely. So Im not persuaded that 
the delays in these circumstances were avoidable.
I also understand that Mrs J thinks that the delay in sending the forensic expert to the 
property would mean that the scene would not give an accurate picture of what had 
happened as it may have been tampered with etc. But this seems purely speculative and 
based on conjecture, and Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest that the point at which the 
expert attended the property has ultimately prejudiced their investigation and Mrs Js claim. 
Overall, I appreciate that the service could have been better at times, but Im not satisfied it 
warrants compensation in these circumstances, so I will not be directing Zurich to take any 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman