DRN-3386547
The complaint
Mr I complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined a claim on his motor warranty insurance 
policy
What happened
Mr Is vehicle suffered a catastrophic failure of its engine. Mr I submitted a claim which AWP 
declined as it said the damage pre-dated the policy inception. Mr I subsequently complained 
to this service and this service issued a final decision upholding the complaint. We told AWP 
to inspect the vehicle and reconsider the claim based on the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
So, AWP recovered the vehicle from Mr I and inspected it in order to validate the claim. 
However, AWP said it couldnt validate the claim and it discontinued the claim process. AWP 
said the vehicle had been presented whereby it couldnt be inspected properly. AWP say the 
vehicles control unit has been tampered with since its previous visit to the garage and as 
such the claim was discontinued.
Mr I complained to this service again. An investigator reviewed the complaint and found 
there was enough evidence to support what AWP was saying and that AWP hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
Mr I doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
The policy says this policy will not cover the following: Cleaning, polishing, recalls, 
operations performed under normal maintenance, corrosion, adjustments, modifications, 
alterations, or damage caused by tampering, disconnection, improper adjustments or repairs 
or incorrect fuel, failures due to oil degradation or carbon/soot build up. AWP says the 
control unit has been tampered with and any diagnostic/data retrieve is impossible. As such 
it says its impossible for it to continue with the claim.  Mr I says he didnt do anything, and 
AWP mustve tampered with the control unit to avoid paying the claim. 
AWP says that in June 2021 the vehicle was recovered from storage on skid jacks to the 
garage as the ignition wouldnt turn on and the handbrake wouldnt release. The garage 
attempted a number of methods to turn on the vehicle, but all attempts failed. The garage 
then gained access to the ZGW module/control unit. The garage videoed its inspection and 
diagnosis. The video clearly shows evidence of finger marks in the dust on the underside of 
the drivers understeering panel. One of the connectors was disconnected, and there was 
evidence that the unit fixing bolt had been removed and refitted. As there was evidence of 
someone recently being in that area of the vehicle, the garage removed the control unit for 
further inspection. Again, this is all documented via images. Upon opening the control unit its 
clear a number of the pins have been damaged. In particular pins 44 and 45. The garage 
says the image it provided is evidence of deliberate tampering, preventing any diagnostic or 
data retrieve. 
AWP says it recovered the vehicle and covered the diagnosis costs up to that point as per 
the previous final decision. It says that upon the vehicle attending the garage, the vehicles 
condition was not as it was previously. AWP says the vehicle is now presented in a condition 
whereby the vehicle cannot be inspected correctly. AWP says as per the review from the 
garage this is due to some tampering with the vehicle since it was last at the garage. 
And I agree. Everything would suggest someone has accessed the control unit and 
tampered with it. The photographic and video evidence is very comprehensive. The finger 
marks suggest the area has been accessed, and the pictures of the control unit show clear 
evidence of tampering. Further to this the report Ive seen clearly states that because of the 
tampering, the diagnostic equipment cannot be used. As such, and in the absence of any 
further evidence Im persuaded that as per the garage report, someone has tampered with 
this vehicle. 
Mr I says that he never accessed that area, nor would he have done anything to hinder the 
claim. Mr I says that AWP or the garage did this, and it was nothing to do with him. But AWP 
says the vehicle was tampered with between the time it left its garage and the time it was 
returned.
The history of vehicle storage matches up. The vehicle was with the garage from August 
2020 to May 2021. In May 2021, Mr I moved the vehicle into storage as the garage couldnt 
store it any longer. When the previous final decision was issued, and AWP were told to carry 
out an inspection, Mr I says he had the vehicle delivered from storage to his own address 
and AWP picked it up from there and brought it back to the garage. AWP confirm all this and 
confirm the vehicle was picked up from a residential address. 
So, I looked at the video again to see what was said. The engineer in the video shows us the 
finger markings and he specifically shows us a connector thats not connected properly. He 
says, this is a sign that this has been played with. The engineer continues by saying that 
when the vehicle originally came to the garage in August 2020, everything electronically was 
actually working, and even though there was a catastrophic engine failure, the vehicle could 
still be started. But now he says with the disconnection this is not possible. The engineer 
says this shows that someone accessed this area of the vehicle between the time it was with 
the garage previously and now. Further to this, the garage says that it was able to connect 
the manufacturers diagnosis tools when this vehicle was first inspected in August 2020. 
However, this is not now possible because of the damage to the pins on the PCP board.
But Mr I is adamant AWP did this. Mr I has told us hes collecting evidence to support his 
argument that AWP tampered with his vehicle. But to date, and even after giving Mr I a 
reasonable amount of additional time to respond, Mr I hasnt provided any further evidence. I 
know Mr I has advised that he needs more time. But weve allowed Mr I two extensions. Its 
been three months since our investigator sent a view and its been two months since Mr I 
was sent the video evidencing the tampering. But even after this additional time, Mr I hasnt 
set out what hes going to provide, or when hes going to provide it, even though Ive asked. 
And unfortunately, even though hes had extensions, a further open-ended extension is not 
acceptable in this case, given the time already allowed for Mr I to respond.
So, Im going to make my final decision. And based on what Ive seen, Im more persuaded 
by the evidence provided by AWP. Theres not enough evidence to suggest that AWP 
tampered with this vehicle, or that it was tampered with whilst in its care. I know Mr I will be disappointed by this decision. But I dont think AWP has made an unreasonable decision to 
discontinue the claim for the reasons given. As such Im not upholding this complaint and I 
wont be telling AWP to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman