DRN-4325867
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she hasnt been charged a fair rate of interest on her mortgage with 
Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs L has a mortgage with Santander. She took it out in 2001 with a predecessor of 
Santander, and took further borrowing in 2007. She redeemed the mortgage in 2019.
The mortgage was on a discount rate  meaning the interest rate was discounted from the 
standard rate by 1.5% - until 2004. In January 2004 the mortgage reverted to the standard 
variable rate (SVR) and remained on the SVR until Mrs L paid it off in 2019.
In late 2020, with the help of a representative (who is no longer involved in the complaint), 
Mrs L complained to Santander. Her representative said that:
The term of the mortgage which allowed Santander to vary the interest rate was not a 
fair term;
The explanation of the interest rate was unclear and Mrs L was misled into believing 
her interest rate would track the Bank of England base rate, which did not in fact 
happen;
Mrs L was unable to move her mortgage elsewhere because of fees which would 
apply;
As a result, the interest rate she was charged on her mortgage was unfair and should 
be replaced with a reasonable rate reflecting the Bank of England base rate.
Santander didnt agree it had acted unfairly. So Mrs L brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator said that we could only consider the fairness of the interest rate charged for six 
years up to when Mrs L complained. And he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. So 
Mrs L asked for an ombudsman to review both the period we can consider, and the outcome 
of her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer says that Mrs Ls mortgage was to be at a variable rate of interest, with a 
discount of 1.5%. It goes on to say that the discount would only apply for the first two years. 
During the initial two year period, interest would be charged at the variable rate less the 
1.5% discount, and from then charged at the variable rate  the SVR. The 2007 further 
advance was charged at the SVR from the start.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage set out the circumstances in which Santander 
(and its predecessor) could vary the interest rate. I dont agree with Mrs Ls representative 
that the terms and conditions dont form part of the contract because they are not in the 
same document as the mortgage offer. Theres nothing unusual about that  its not 
unreasonable that standard terms (applicable to all customers) are in a different document to 
bespoke terms (such as the amount borrowed and the method of repayment. Both are part 
of the mortgage contract.
Ive thought first about the period we can consider. The rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service say that there are time limits for making a complaint. It must be brought within six 
years of the date of the event complained of  or, if that gives more time, within three years 
of when the complainant knew (or ought reasonably to have known) of cause for complaint. 
If a complaint is outside the limits we cant consider it unless there are exceptional 
circumstances which explain why it wasnt made in time.
Each time Santander charged Mrs L interest, it had to do so in line with the terms of the 
contract, and do so fairly. So each monthly interest charge amounts to a separate cause for 
complaint.
Therefore, any charges made more than six years before Mrs L complained are out of time 
on the first part of the rule. And I think theyre out of time on the second part too  Im 
satisfied Mrs L ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint about the interest 
she was charged at the time she was charged it. If she was misled into thinking the 
mortgage interest rate would track the Bank of England base rate, it would soon have 
become clear to her that wasnt in fact happening. And so she ought reasonably to have 
realised she had cause to complain about that.
As I havent seen any exceptional circumstances which prevented her complaining any 
sooner, that means I will only be considering the fairness of interest charged in the six years 
leading up to Mrs Ls complaint  that is, from December 2014 to the redemption of the 
mortgage in 2019. In doing so, I will take into account all the circumstances of the complaint. 
This means that, where relevant, I will consider things that happened before December 2014 
to the extent that they impact the fairness of the interest rate charged after that date.
Im satisfied that Mrs Ls mortgage was properly on the SVR. I think the mortgage offer and 
terms and conditions are clear about that. While the terms and conditions are a detailed 
document, Id expect a reasonably diligent borrower undertaking such a substantial 
commitment to have read them and understood what they were agreeing to  or queried 
them if they didnt.
As I say, the mortgage offer and terms are clear that after the two year discount the SVR 
would apply. Theres nothing to suggest that the Bank of England base rate is linked to the 
SVR, or that the SVR would track base rate in any way. So I dont think  from the mortgage 
documents  that Mrs L could reasonably have expected that it would do so.
The terms and conditions set out when Santander could vary the SVR. They limit its ability to 
do so  in other words, Santander could only vary the SVR if one of the conditions was met. 
They include changing the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of funding Santanders 
business. Ive taken into account what the term says, as well as the law on unfair contract 
terms. And Ive thought about whether Santander has used the term fairly.
Santander has given us evidence of how it funded its mortgage business and changes to its 
cost of funding over time. That evidence is commercially sensitive so weve received it in 
confidence, as were entitled to do under our rules. But in summary, it shows that 
Santanders costs changed over time, and that when it changed the SVR it did so to reflect 
changes in the cost of funding.In particular, its shown that between 2007 and 2009  at the time of the global financial 
crisis  its costs reduced, but did not reduce to the same extent that Bank of England base 
rate reduced. So while Santander reduced the SVR at this time, it didnt reduce it by as 
much as the fall in base rate. Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage market that the 
same was true of most mortgage lenders at this time, and Santanders SVR was not out of 
line with SVRs charged by similar lenders.
And Santander has also shown that there was an increase in its costs in 2012, which 
justified an increase to the SVR at that time even though there was no concurrent change in 
base rate. 
Although the changes in 2007  2009, and 2012, are out of time, to the extent that changes 
made at that time influenced the interest rate charged from December 2014 onwards I dont 
think that resulted in an unfair interest rate. And Im satisfied that changes Santander made 
from 2016 onwards reflected changes to the Bank of England base rate. 
I also note that from 2004 onwards, there was no early repayment charge, so Mrs L was free 
to move her mortgage elsewhere if she wasnt happy with what Santander was charging her. 
Her representative said she wasnt able to do so after 2008 because of changes to her 
circumstances  I havent seen any evidence of that, but if it was the case, thats not 
something Santander could have foreseen when the mortgage was taken out. And she could 
also have applied to Santander for a new preferential interest rate if she wasnt happy paying 
the SVR.
Taking all that into account, Im not persuaded that Santander treated Mrs L unfairly and so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman