DRN-4005826
The complaint
Mr R complains that Standard Life Assurance (Standard Life) said it would regularly contact 
him to review his pension fund  but it hasnt. As a result he says he wasnt advised that his 
pension fund had suffered losses or given the option of switching to safer funds  in line with 
what he believed was his attitude to risk profile. He would like the investment loss hes 
suffered from the fund to be refunded to him. 
What happened
In 2018, as he wanted to go into a drawdown facility, Mr R needed to complete an internal 
transfer of his existing (staff) pensions, valued at £137,267.81 and £692,418.99, into a new 
pension plan with Standard Life. Mr R also held pension plans with other providers.
This meant the total value of his new Standard Life drawdown plan was £829,686.80, 
although it was held in two separate accounts. This allowed Mr R to withdraw tax free cash 
of £207,421.69. Thereafter both accounts were invested into one of Standard Lifes 
managed portfolios which seemingly was appropriate for customers who wanted to take a 
small amount of risk with their investment. The investment was decided upon by Mr R after 
hed received information about, and had discussions around, the range of funds Standard 
Life offered.
By July 2019 the plan was valued at £640,686.19. 
In November 2019 Mr R contacted Standard Life to discuss the potential transfer of another 
of his pensions into the Standard Life plan. Standard Life contacted Mr R on two further 
occasions that year to check on the possibility of conducting the transfer. During this time 
Mr R asked about whether there was a lower risk fund available for his existing plan as it had 
lost value. In July 2020 the plan was valued at £643,147.24.
In May 2021 Mr R decided to progress the other transfer. He said he wanted the funds to be 
invested along the same lines as the existing plan  as he was happy with the performance. 
In July 2021 the value of the plan had risen to £720,640.11 following the additional transfer 
of £41,829.85.
 
But by July 2022 the value of the plan had fallen significantly and Mr Rs loss from the 
previous year  after allowing for the income hed taken - was £56,624.44. So he complained 
about the financial loss hed suffered. He made the following points:
Standard Life said it would contact him every three months to ensure he was happy 
with his investment. He hadnt received a call since 2021.
Standard Life said he could switch to a cash account from his existing portfolio when 
he complained about the investment loss. He said he would have made that change 
previously if he had been made aware of the cash account  which he wasnt.
He was told his existing portfolio carried minimal risk. So as he paid £6,680 that year 
for the portfolio to be managed by Standard Life  he concluded that it had been 
mismanaged. 
He questioned why the charges had been at 1% when he was entitled to a 0.5% 
discount. 
Around this time Standard Life confirmed it had carried out Mr Rs subsequent instruction to 
switch funds of £636,197.95 into the trustee cash account. 
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said that ultimately it didnt provide Mr R with 
any advice  just information on the wide variety of funds available including its MyFolio 
risk profile based managed range. It said Mr R was responsible for his initial and ongoing 
investment choice and it thought it had provided all the information he needed to make that 
choice. It said it hadnt set any expectation that it would regularly review the investment.
It further explained that the reason it hadnt provided information about the trustee account 
was that Mr R had said he didnt want to take any cash from the plan for five or even 10 
years  so it wasnt discussed as an option. Standard Life also set out its investment 
performance in general for 2022 and concluded that, with nearly a third of its 300 plus funds 
showing losses of over 10%, it had been a difficult year for investments - including bonds, 
which were a significant part of Mr Rs portfolio.
Mr R remained unhappy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
making the following points in support of his assessment:
He was satisfied Standard Life hadnt offered advice  only information about its 
range of funds. He thought that, following the information he was given and the 
research he carried out, Mr R understood what he was investing in. 
He was satisfied that Standard Life had made Mr R aware of the range of funds 
available and that it provided description and risk warnings for the funds that were 
discussed during the telephone calls. The option of a cash fund was provided within 
the literature although its use wasnt regarded as appropriate considering the 
planned longer term nature of the investment.
He hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Standard Life offered to review Mr Rs 
pension investments on a personal basis. He thought this was probably a 
misunderstanding around the ongoing contact about another possible pension 
transfer during the period in question.
He wasnt persuaded that Standard Life had mismanaged the portfolio during this 
time but that the portfolio had simply lost value due to external market factors in and 
around 2021. 
Mr R said that, having spoken to Standard Life and other financial advisers, he accepted that 
no underlying changes were made to the composition of his portfolio and that low risk funds 
did suffer significant losses during this period. But he said the other financial advisers told 
him that where this had happened fund managers and providers made them aware  so they 
could review their clients portfolios. He questioned why Standard Life hadnt made him 
aware of the same issues particularly as he understood it agreed to contact him regularly 
about his investments. 
He also questioned why Standard Life didnt check his understanding of risk by asking him to 
complete a risk questionnaire. He thought that if it had carried out that task then it would 
have realised that he was resistant to risk and offered the cash account as the most 
appropriate investment for him. 
 
But as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Im sure Mr R will 
be disappointed with this outcome  and Ive seen how strongly he feels about the matter. 
But I dont think Standard Life has done anything wrong here  so Ill explain my reasoning.
Should Standard Life have given Mr R investment advice?
Mr Rs complaint primarily relates to a lack of advice or ongoing guidance he said he should 
have received from Standard Life regarding the investments within his drawdown plan. At 
various points Mr R has said that Standard Life ought to have completed a risk profile 
questionnaire with him and should have realised that he wanted minimal risk with his 
investment so it could have ensured that it directed him to funds (or accounts) that offered 
that level of risk. He says Standard Life had a duty of care to contact him and review his 
fund. 
So in the first instance Ive looked at whether Standard Life had any obligation to give Mr R 
any advice  either initially or, and Ill consider this later, during the time he held the plan. But 
as Standard Life says it didnt give Mr R any advice and therefore didnt complete a fact find 
or suitability report, Ive looked carefully at the documents it provided him during the process. 
Ive also listened to all the telephone calls Mr R had with Standard Life when he first raised 
the question of amalgamating the staff pensions that Standard Life administered for him into 
a new drawdown plan, so that he could drawdown his tax free cash and maintain the 
residual funds for potential use later in his retirement. 
The Key Features document (KFD) was intended to give Mr R information on the main 
features, benefits and risks of the pension. It confirmed that its customer centre would be 
happy to answer his questions or give further information because they cant give you 
financial advice. Ive picked out the relevant sections which explained Standard Lifes 
position regarding initial and ongoing investment.
   
The KFD said that one of the aims of the plan was to allow you to control and manage your 
payments and investments online. It confirmed that Mr R should read the fund choices and 
charges guide in conjunction with the KFD. This was confirmed within the risks section which 
said there are specific risks and information relating to investing in investment-linked 
pension funds that you need to be aware of. Please see our fund choices and charges guide 
(AMPP5a) for details. 
Another section headed Should I seek advice? confirmed that we recommend that you 
take financial advice and continue to do so during the lifetime of the plan. There may be a 
cost for this.
While the section entitled who will manage my investments? noted you can make 
investment decisions on your own, or with a financial adviser. And under other information 
about investments it said its important to regularly review your investments. You can 
change investments at any time.
Ive also looked at the application form that was completed, where the declaration stated that 
Standard Life Client Management Ltd hasnt provided me with advice on this occasion. I have chosen not to take advice and take responsibility for the decision to transfer and 
understand that Standard Life Direct has not assessed the suitability of this transfer.
Alongside the KFD Mr R would have been provided with another booklet called making the 
most of your pension. simple steps to help you maximise your investment 
On page two, under what to consider it said performance- Your retirement income 
depends on the performance of your investments and the charges we make. So its 
important that you know how your investments are doing and the kind of results you should 
expect. And if you decide to change your investments, its easy to do this online. Please 
remember that as with any investments, the value can go up or down and may be worth less 
than invested...Get informed- Reviewing your annual statement is a good place to start. Well 
send you at least one statement every year, or you can review your statement when it suits 
you, using our online service. We also provide tools that help you check if your pension is 
performing as well as you hope. Theres more information on the opposite page.
So, when together as a comprehensive package of information, its difficult not to conclude 
that Standard Life made it clear that it wasnt able to offer Mr R any advice and that he would 
need to take responsibility for all his investment choices  including the risks of how the 
funds/portfolio might perform. I havent seen any evidence to support the idea that Standard 
Life gave any initial advice to Mr R. 
But, as well as the written information Mr R was provided with, Ive listened carefully to all 
the telephone conversations he had with Standard Life  particularly during the process of 
discussing the transfer of his pensions and how to invest the proceeds. Again I think 
Standard Life made it clear to Mr R that it wasnt giving any advice and I think it gave him a 
number of warnings around this and asked him to confirm that he was comfortable with the 
situation. 
 
On 21 June 2018 Standard Lifes consultant talked about whether Mr R had thought about 
what to do with the money on transferring. Mr R initially said he thought it would stay in the 
funds that it was already invested across. He said I understand you cant give me advice. 
I want my portfolio to be fairly low risk.
A call the next day noted that as Mr R wasnt considering taking any taxable income from the 
fund for at least five maybe even 10 years, he needed to think about balancing the risk of 
growth against security. This led to the understanding that Mr R could invest into the risk 
profile based portfolios or he could choose from over 300 individual funds. The consultant 
said it was up to Mr R to make the investment decision and they would simply implement it. 
He said he could provide a document which listed all the funds and gave them a volatility 
rating. He also ran Mr R through Standard Lifes website explaining where the suite of 
investments was held with the 300 plus funds.
A call on 26 June 2018 was the last part of the process where the application was 
completed, and investment decisions put in place. The consultant again gave numerous risk 
warnings and recapped Mr Rs objectives. Mr R eventually chose the risk based portfolio 
option although he was undecided for much of the time. 
He stated that he wanted minimum risk and the portfolio was confirmed as level 1 which 
was the lowest risk available within the portfolios. The consultant said the portfolio was low 
risk a small amount of risk. He mentioned short term fluctuations. He asked Mr R is that 
what youre looking for? Mr R replied yes.
During all the calls I wasnt aware that Standard Life provided any advice  simply 
information and guidance on where to find further information Mr R might require to make his 
decision. I think Standard Life made it clear to Mr R that he was responsible for making the decision and for the implications they might have on the value of his fund. I havent heard 
any evidence that Standard Life attempted to align Mr Rs attitude to risk with a particular 
fund. It simply explained that Mr R could chose his own individual funds but if he wasnt 
comfortable doing that then the portfolio range was based on alignment to risk profiles with 
level 1 being the lowest risk of them all. 
Mr R has said that he told Standard Life he wanted minimal risk, but I havent seen or 
heard any evidence to confirm thats what he said. He talked about low risk and its clear 
that he didnt want to take much risk  although I note that initially he wanted to continue his 
investment using the same funds as he had invested in previously  which were medium risk 
rated funds. But, even if Mr R wanted to take a minimal risk, Standard Life wasnt able to 
recommend funds which best aligned to his risk profile, and it wasnt able to test Mr Rs 
attitude to risk by asking him to complete a questionnaire either  which would have led it to 
provide advice  which it wasnt able to do here.
Was Mr R entitled to regular and ongoing reviews of his portfolio?
Mr R says Standard Life said it would contact him every quarter to review his investments 
and it didnt do that all at in the year his plan fell significantly in value. He says that if 
Standard Life had done what it said it would he could have switched to secure 
funds/accounts earlier. 
Standard Life said it didnt give Mr R any advice or suggest that it would provide any kind of 
ongoing services  apart from administrative, and that it made him aware of that on 
numerous occasions. So, in the absence of a suitability report, Ive looked at the literature 
and brochures Standard Life provided Mr R which would have set out its terms of 
engagement and noted what it kind of service it would provide going forward.
Within the letter that Standard Life sent in July 2018 to confirm the transfers to a drawdown 
plan, was a section which confirmed how Standard Life would keep in touch. It said well 
continue to send you yearly statements to let you know how your investments are performing 
and how much you might get back. We may also get in touch with information that we think 
might help you with your financial plans. Theres no suggestion that Standard Life failed to 
meet these obligations, but I havent seen any evidence to support the claim that it offered  
or indeed was committed - to do anything further. Theres simply nothing to suggest 
Standard Life said it would regularly contact Mr R to review his funds, apart from providing 
the annual statements it said it would issue. 
 
The letter also set out that Mr R should speak with a financial adviser if he was unsure about 
any of the information he was provided with, and looking at the section headed charges, it 
said that were not taking any charges from this transfer payment to meet sales costs. I find 
it unlikely that Standard Life, if it had agreed to give Mr R any advice about his initial or 
ongoing investment, wouldnt have charged him for such a service.
Ive then looked at the annual statement Mr R received the following year in 2019. Apart 
from providing values of the plan the statement also set out to Mr R that, its important to 
review your fund choice regularly, even if you are invested in a lifestyle profile. What you are 
invested in can make a big difference to the value of your planwe recommend you 
speak to you adviser before making investment changes. Standard Life also confirmed that 
lifestyle profiles or the ability to pick funds from its entire range was available from its 
website. These warnings or recommendations were replayed in subsequent statements. But Ive also seen how the KFD that Mr R was issued with at the point of sale confirmed the 
ongoing service Mr R could expect. Excerpts which support that idea were should I seek 
advice? We recommend that you take financial advice and continue to do so during the 
lifetime of the plan. There may be a cost for this. And its important to regularly review your 
investments. You can change investments at any time. 
So, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I think Standard Life confirmed at every 
available opportunity that it wouldnt be providing Mr R with regular ongoing advice or would 
be reviewing his investments.  And I havent seen any evidence to support the idea that it did 
make such offers or commitments. 
But Mr R has been consistent in stating that Standard Life said it would contact him every 
quarter, so Ive looked into that matter further. I note that Standard Life did make calls in 
January, March, and November 2020 to follow up Mr Rs suggestion that he might be retiring 
and therefore looking to transfer another of his pensions to Standard Life. This trail 
eventually completed in May 2021 when Mr R did indeed go ahead with the transfer. He 
says this was part of Standard Lifes ongoing commitment to reviewing his investments and 
that it stopped in 2021  which was the year that his fund value dropped significantly. So I 
can understand Mr Rs frustration here as he believes the contact stopped just as it would 
have been helpful to be made aware of the volatility in his plan and the loss of value during 
that time.
But as Ive said previously theres simply no evidence to support the claim that Standard Life 
agreed to give Mr R any initial or ongoing advice  or that it promised to contact him 
regularly to review his investment choices. Ive listened to the calls carefully and Im satisfied 
that these were follow up calls relating to the pension transfer of another pension plan into 
his drawdown plan. I say that because on each occasion the employee explains his reason 
for calling is to see if Mr R wants any further help with that matter. I can appreciate that Mr R 
may have viewed the call as regular contact and he did take the opportunity to ask for up to 
date valuations and pose some questions, but theres no evidence to support the idea that 
this was to review his portfolio or to look at the ongoing suitability of what he had previously 
chosen.
Should Standard Life had made Mr R aware of the cash fund in particular?
 
Mr R said he was never made aware that a cash account existed as an alternative when he 
discussed investment choices and that, as he wanted to take the minimum possible risk, he 
would have most likely made some investment into that account and certainly would have 
used it as soon as his investments began to lose money. 
Whereas Standard Life says it didnt discuss the cash account option. It said that was 
because it was inappropriate for Mr Rs objective because he indicated he didnt want to 
draw any income from the residual fund for at least five maybe even 10 years.
  
But from the evidence Ive been provided I think Mr R was made aware of the trustee cash 
account. I say that because the KFD refers to the Trustee Cash Account and explains that 
we also offer the facility to hold cash on deposit within the plan. 
Its held in an account thats owned and used by Standard Life Trustee Company Limited, 
the scheme trustee. The trustee will keep a record of how much you have invested in this 
cash account. The rate of interest is normally 1% below the Bank of England base rate. You 
can check the rate by contacting us or your adviser.
The idea was that you can choose to use it to pay your adviser, but as Mr R made it clear 
he was looking to invest for five years or more it wouldnt usually be appropriate to leave the 
funds in a cash account, especially if he wanted to draw an income. But in any case, the trustee cash account was set out in the KFD and was the account that was used to pay 
charges and income from the plan  so Mr R ought to have been aware of its existence. 
However, as Ive said previously Standard Life wasnt advising Mr R on the most suitable 
and appropriate funds so as long as it provided information about all the funds  which 
included the trustee cash account, I think it met its obligations here. 
Summary
I cant reasonably conclude that Mr R would have acted differently and switched his funds to 
a safer investment because Standard Life had no obligation to either contact him to review 
the performance of his plan or to make him aware of alternative available funds if his 
portfolio lost value. Standard Lifes role here was to carry out Mr Rs investment instructions 
providing him with the necessary information on its range of funds and portfolios and to 
administer his plan thereafter. This primarily involved managing the portfolio he invested in 
and providing annual pension statements. I havent seen any evidence to support the claim 
that Standard Life agreed to regularly contact Mr R to discuss his investments or to provide 
advice on the suitability of the funds he invested into  so I dont think Standard Life has 
done anything wrong here.
Mr R has suggested that the significant loss in the value of his portfolio was in some way 
due to Standard Lifes mismanagement of the portfolio. But I havent seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that might have been the case. In my view the losses were sustained by 
external market factors which affect all investments from time to time. We wouldnt usually 
consider upholding a complaint about investment performance unless it can be shown that 
the advice to invest was unsuitable  which as Standard Life didnt give advice, wasnt the 
case here.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman