DRN-3254125
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. Mr R paid off the loan 
using a credit card in 2016.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Ikano accepted this and asked for some additional information to allow it to calculate its 
offer. This was provided to it but to date Ikano has not confirmed its offer of settlement. So, 
Ive been asked to make a decision to set out what Ikano must do to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Ikano has accepted our adjudicators assessment that the complaint should be upheld. So, I 
dont need to decide whether there was a misrepresentation  as that has been accepted  
only what must happen now to put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr R by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Rs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Because Mr R has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
And because Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing and has supplied evidence of that to 
Ikano, it should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr R paid by refinancing on his credit card.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr R the difference between the remaining amount owed on his credit card for 
the solar panel system and the amount he wouldve owed if the system had been 
self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr R first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman