DRN-3114135
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Fowlersfinance.com Limited hasnt refunded to her the overpayments 
that shes made to it for a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement.  
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mrs C under a conditional sale agreement with Fowlers Finance. 
She paid a deposit of £300 and agreed to make 156 weekly payments of £37.11 starting 
from a date near the end of November 2017. She set up a standing order to pay £37.10 
each week which should have ended in late November 2020 but she didnt cancel the 
standing order at that time and continued to make weekly payments to Fowlers Finance until 
March 2021 when she says that she realised that she shouldnt have been doing so and 
cancelled her standing order.
She complained to Fowlers Finance and asked it to refund overpayments totalling £617.42. 
It didnt send a full response to her complaint so she complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs Cs bank 
statements from December 2020 to March 2021 showed that shed made 13 overpayments 
totalling £482.30. She recommended that Fowlers Finance should refund £482.30, plus 
interest, to Mrs C and that it should pay her £150 for the delays shed experienced in trying 
to reclaim the overpayment.
Mrs C has accepted our investigators recommendations but Fowlers Finance hasnt 
responded to those recommendations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
our investigator reviewed Mrs Cs bank statement for December 2020 to March 2021 
and concluded that Mrs C had made overpayments totalling £482.30 to Fowlers 
Finance;
Fowlers Finance hadnt provided any information to this service about Mrs Cs 
complaint other than a statement which said that her request for a refund:  has 
been passed over to a Senior Manager for the refund to be done. I am not aware of 
any reason why the refund could not be done;
Fowlers Finance hasnt responded to our investigations recommendations and hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that Mrs C hasnt made overpayments totalling 
£482.30;
the standing order was set up by Mrs C and it was her responsibility to cancel it when 
she wanted to but I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Fowlers Finance to 
refund the overpayments totalling £482.30, with interest, to Mrs C;
Fowlers Finance failure to properly respond to her complaint, its failure to engage 
with this service and the delay in Mrs C receiving a refund of her monthly payments 
will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs C; and
I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Fowlers Finance to pay £150 to 
Mrs C to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Fowlers Finance to take the actions described 
above and as set out below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I order Fowlersfinance.com Limited to:
1. Pay a total of £482.30 to refund to Mrs C for the overpayments that shes made.
2. Pay interest on those overpayments at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement.
3. Pay £150 to Mrs C to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Fowlers Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 2 above. Fowlers Finance must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman