DRN-3479107
The complaint
Mr K complains about the decision of The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to decline his business interruption claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 
pandemic. He is also unhappy about information he was given prior to renewing his policy.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the circumstances of this complaint. I 
have referred only to Mr K within this decision, though I note his partner also has an interest 
in the relevant business. She is not a policyholder, and which this does not mean she is 
unable to complain, I have not referred to her for the sake of simplicity. 
Mr K operates as a holiday accommodation business. He held an insurance policy for this 
business, underwritten by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU). The policy renewed annually at the start of July. The policy provided £1,500 cover in 
relation to each cancelled advanced booking, as well as £10,000 cover of loss of profit 
relating to each event of an interruption to the business caused by infectious diseases, up to 
a maximum of £50,000 for any one period of insurance.
When Mr K was forced to close his business in March 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic, he successfully claimed for losses relating to the first lockdown. He was paid up 
to the maximum of £1,500 in relation to each cancelled booking and £6,000 relating to 
additional loss of profit. 
Mr K then contacted NFU to claim for losses relating to the second lockdown period. NFU 
decided to pay Mr K £4,000 relating to loss of profit. This sum was apparently paid under the 
policy that ran from July 2019 to 2020. NFU has said that Mr K was not strictly entitled to 
claim for losses relating to the second lockdown under this policy, but that it had paid the 
remainder of the £10,000 policy limit relating to any one event for loss of profit caused by 
disease. 
However, NFU said that Mr K was not entitled to claim for any further loss of profit or 
cancellation of an advanced booking. This was because the policy had renewed in 
July 2020, and an exclusion had been added into the policy relating to claims caused by 
coronavirus. 
Mr K complained. He said that he had queried this exclusion in June 2020, prior to the 
renewal. He said that he had been informed, by NFUs agent, that regardless of this 
exclusion he would be covered for the current pandemic but not future ones. NFU 
responded, saying that due to the remote working that had been necessitated at the time of 
this call, it did not have a recording. But that it was unlikely such advice had been given. 
NFU also said that the exclusion was clear in the renewal documents and applied to the new 
claim relating to the second lockdown.
Mr K referred his complaint to our Service. Our Investigator explained that, taking into 
account a screenshot of NFUs system note relating to the phone call in June 2020, as well 
as the other evidence available, she didnt think it was most likely that Mr K had been told 
that the renewed policy would cover further claims relating to COVID-19. Nevertheless, our 
Investigator considered whether Mr K would have been materially impacted had the agent 
given him incorrect advice. Our Investigator did not consider Mr K would have been able to 
find an alternative policy, at this point in time, that would have provided cover for new 
COVID-19 claims. So, she did not any incorrect advice that might have been given would 
have been materially detrimental to Mr K. 
Mr K remained unhappy and so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr K and his business, I wont be upholding his complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Mr K closed his business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of this business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover hes looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr K took out.
NFU determined that the initial claim should be covered under both the loss of profit cover 
and the optional cancellation of advance booking cover Mr K had included with the policy. 
NFU paid up to the maximum for any cancellation of an advanced booking, where that 
booking was cancelled within the period of the policy. NFU also paid out the maximum limit 
for loss of profit in relation to the 2019 to 2020 policy for any one event - £10,000. The 
interruption caused by the introduction of the lockdown restrictions was one event. 
The further lockdown was a separate event, and would be considered a separate claim. The 
date of that event and claim was outside of the period of insurance provided by the 2019 to 
2020 policy. As such, the claim would need to be considered under the 2020 to 2021 policy. 
The terms of this renewed policy included an exclusion on claims relating to coronavirus. As 
COVID-19 is caused by a coronavirus, I think is reasonable for NFU to apply this exclusion 
in the 2020 to 2021 policy to the claim relating to the second lockdown. I do note that NFU 
also paid the remainder of the 2019 to 2020 loss of profit claim limit, which it may not have 
been required to do. 
As such, I consider NFU acted reasonably when considering Mr Ks claim relating to the 
second lockdown. 
However, I do note that Mr K has said he was told this exclusion would not apply for the rest 
of the pandemic. So, I need to consider this aspect. 
I note that a recording of the call in question is not available. Due to the changes in working 
arrangements during the first few months of the pandemic, this is a reasonably common 
issue. So, whilst it is unfortunate it is not something I can hold against NFU. I dont think it is most likely that NFUs agent would have said that any future claim within the 
pandemic would not be subject to the exclusion. It would not make sense for NFU to have 
introduced it at that point if it did not intend to apply it. 
However, it seems that there was some confusion, quite possibly due to Mr K being provided 
with misleading or unclear information. And so Ive approached this decision on the basis 
that Mr K was actually not provided with information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading 
 which is what NFU is obliged to provide.
The next thing I need to consider, however, is the impact of this. Our role is to consider 
complaints and where we determine something has gone wrong, we try to put the parties 
back in the position they would have been in if things had not gone wrong. In this case, if I 
accept that Mr K was given unclear information, I need to think about what this led to and 
then to put that situation right as far as possible. This will involve me considering what Mr K 
would have done had he been given clear information. 
Just because Mr K may have been given unclear information does not mean his policy 
should cover his claim. Had Mr K been clearly informed that he would not be covered for any 
later lockdowns that occurred within the pandemic, he may though have considered whether 
the cover NFU was providing was suitable. But he still needs to demonstrate, in effect, that 
he lost out on the opportunity of his claim being met elsewhere.
The issue for Mr K is that, in June 2020, most insurers had introduced exclusions similar to 
the one NFU added to his policy. So, I think it is unlikely that he would have found alternative 
cover that would have allowed him to successfully claim for his losses in the second 
lockdown. And, taking into account that Mr K has not indicated that he was unsatisfied with 
any other part of the policy, I am not persuaded that he would have done anything other than 
renewed his policy with NFU even if he had been clearly told it would not cover a second 
lockdown. 
Mr K may not have been happy that this policy would not cover him for a further coronavirus 
related lockdown, but as he would not have been able to find alternative cover that did, I 
dont consider he has lost out as a result of this not being made clear to him at the point of 
renewal  if indeed that is what happened. 
Taking everything into account, based on the circumstances of this particular complaint, I do 
not consider NFU acted inappropriately in not meeting Mr Ks claim for losses relating to the 
second lockdown. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr K, but I hope Ive provided 
him with a thorough explanation of why I do not think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman