DRN-1902657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with St 
Andrew's Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ns insurance policy with St Andrews started in 2009. It initially cost £394 for the 
year. The next year, 2010, Mr and Mrs Ns insurance cost £410. 
By 2019, the policy cost £678 for the year. Mr and Mrs N went into branch to check if they 
had legal expenses cover under the policy. They were told that there was a newer policy that 
would be much cheaper and given a number to call to get a quote for this. They cancelled 
the existing policy and took out a new one for about £280. They then complained that theyd 
been overpaying for their insurance.
St Andrews said the policy had been priced in line with the risk being covered. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed, so Ive been asked to 
make a decision. They think St Andrews shouldve told them about the newer, cheaper, 
policy when it became available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr and 
Mrs N fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that St Andrews hasnt treated Mr and Mrs N fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair. But, in this case, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed with this, and Ill explain my reasons.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. At the start of the policy in 
2009, there was an introductory discount. This isnt uncommon and policies are often initially 
priced lower to attract new customers. I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup 
that cost over the subsequent years. And I think that happened here.
This isnt a case where the customer didnt engage with the price of the policy at renewal 
over many years, as Mr and Mrs N contacted St Andrews to discuss the price of the policy 
and obtain a discount in 2012, 2013 and 2014. The newer policy only became available in 
2016, so St Andrews couldnt have made them aware of it during those calls.
Mr and Mrs N think that St Andrews shouldve told them once the newer policy was 
available. There are now rules (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers should, in the 
renewal invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a 
number of years. Im satisfied St Andrews complied with those rules. But they didnt exist 
when Mr and Mrs N took out their policy with St Andrews. And even if they had, they dont 
go as far as to say insurers need to tell their customers about alternative products. So, I 
dont think St Andrews needed to tell Mr and Mrs N when the newer policy was introduced.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs N obtained a new policy from St Andrews for much less. I fully 
understand why this would make them question how much theyd been paying over the 
years. But insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of cover, 
excesses and differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. Mr and 
Mrs Ns premiums were also affected by their claims and amendments they made to the 
policy over the years.
I know that Mr and Mrs N think the new policy is better, because it includes legal expenses 
cover, which they didnt have under the previous policy. But I dont think it is as simple as 
that. The price of the new policy included an introductory discount, as their original policy did 
in 2009. So, they may actually have paid less in the first year than the true cost of providing 
the policy. This means that we cant fairly compare the price of the two policies based on 
their initial premium. Overall, having considered all the evidence, including what Mr and 
Mrs N have said, I dont think St Andrews has treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman