DRN-2295143
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he took on hire purchase from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited was clocked. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trades in this case as Alphera 
Financial Services (Alphera). 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr O agreed to take a car from Alphera under a five-year hire purchase 
agreement. The car had been first registered in March 2017, so was just over two years old. 
The dealership had advertised it as a low-mileage vehicle, with an odometer reading of just 
over 10,000 miles. Mr O paid a deposit of £3,000 and was then to make monthly payments 
of just under £500 each. 
About six weeks after he took delivery of the car, Mr O had a diagnostic test carried out. This 
indicated that the true odometer reading should have been 31,429km, or just over 19,500 
miles. That is, Mr O had been led to believe that the car had been driven some 9,000 miles 
less than had in fact been the case. 
Mr O contacted the dealership and then Alphera. He wanted to reject the car and have all 
the payments returned. It was agreed that he could reject the car, although it wasnt until 
February 2020 that it was returned to the dealership. Alphera refunded just under £7,000  
equivalent to the deposit and eight monthly payments. In the meantime, Mr O referred the 
matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it.
As Alphera agreed that the odometer had been tampered with and because the car had 
been returned by the time the investigator looked at the case, his main consideration was 
whether Alphera had done enough to put things right. The investigator didnt think it had and 
recommended that Alphera: pay interest on the refunds; pay Mr O a further £250 in 
recognition of the trouble hed been put to; and pay Mr Os reasonable costs of returning the 
car. Mr O said that he had instructed solicitors at an early stage and wanted their fees 
reimbursed as well. 
Alphera didnt agree with the investigators recommendations. It said, in summary, that most 
of the difficulties with the return of the car had been caused by the dealership and because 
Mr O was away a lot. Because the investigator was unable to persuade the parties to agree 
a resolution, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons.
Whilst its not really in dispute, I should say that I agree that Mr O was entitled to reject the 
car once he found out that the odometer had been tampered with. Theres no suggestion 
that the dealership was responsible for that, and it could have happened at any time in the 
previous two years. Nevertheless, the difference between the dashboard reading and the 
true mileage was significant, since the true reading was double what was shown. 
I can see that there were difficulties in arranging for the return of the car. This was made 
more complicated by the fact that Mr O lives several hundred miles from the dealership. 
Further, Alphera and the dealership werent always in agreement about how matters should 
be resolved. However, it was Alphera  not the dealership  with which Mr O had the hire 
purchase agreement and so the primary responsibility for putting things right lay with 
Alphera. It will no doubt have its own arrangements with the dealership, but any 
disagreement between them shouldnt affect Mr Os rights.  
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Mr O should receive interest on the sums which Alphera 
refunded. The rate should, to some degree, compensate Mr O for being deprived of funds. 
The investigator used a rate of 8% simple, which reflects the rate applied to some court 
judgments and a rate which this service typically uses. Ive considered whether I should use 
the (higher) rate of the hire purchase agreement, but agree with the investigator that 8% is 
fair here. 
I agree too that a further payment of £250 is appropriate here, to reflect the inconvenience to 
which Mr O has been put and the distress hes suffered. I note Alpheras comments that this 
was largely down to the dealership, but  as Ive said  Mr Os agreement was with Alphera. 
The investigator said too that Alphera should pay Mr Os reasonable costs of returning the 
car, against evidence of those costs. Rather than leave that part of my award open to further 
debate, however, Ive concluded that £150 would be a fair contribution that takes into 
account fuel and the cost of return travel.
I agree too with the investigators conclusions about solicitors fees. Parties are of course 
entitled to take legal advice if they wish, and to be legally represented. This service is 
however an informal one and, in most cases, legal representation isnt needed. I dont 
believe it was here, and it wouldnt therefore be fair to require Alphera to pay Mr Os legal 
costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Os complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should pay Mr O:
interest at 8% a year simple on the deposit from the date of payment until the date of 
the refund;
interest at 8% a year simple on any monthly payments made on or after 25 August 2019 
from the date of payment until the date of the refund; 
£250 in recognition of the distress hes suffered and the inconvenience to which hes 
been put; and
£150 as a contribution towards Mr Os costs of returning the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman