DRN-4058766
The complaint
Mr R complains that Revolut Ltd are holding him liable for payments that he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In December 2022 Mr R told Revolut that 
he hadnt made a series of payments that had left his account. The payments in question 
took place in late November and early December 2022 and totalled around £600. They were 
all made to a merchant Ill refer to as P who provide online gambling services.
Revolut looked into Mr Rs claim but ultimately said they couldnt help. They thought Mr R 
had made or authorised the transactions and declined to offer a refund. Mr R remained 
unhappy and referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think the 
conclusion Revolut had reached was unfair. Mr R disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why.
Mr Rs testimony is that he was abroad between 21 October and 5 December 2022 and that 
he didnt take his phone with him. He also says he wouldnt have made the transactions in 
question as he wouldnt gamble due to his religion and that (before going away) he had 
received a call which he thinks was from a scammer. He said during this call he answered 
the questions asked of him to pass security. 
Generally speaking, customers are usually liable for payments theyve authorised and banks 
are usually liable for unauthorised transactions. For a payment to be considered authorised 
it requires that it was correctly authenticated (that being processed in line with the agreed 
method, such as chip and PIN) and that the account holder consented to the payment. The 
crux of this complaint is that Mr R is alleging that the payments he disputes are 
unauthorised.
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided by Revolut that each payment was correctly 
authenticated through the agreed process, in this case that being Apple Pay. So I next need 
to consider whether Revolut concluding that Mr R consented to the payments and holding 
him liable for them is fair and reasonable.
The evidence from Revolut shows that other payments, which Mr R hasnt disputed, were 
also authenticated using Apple Pay. These were made using the same device, at a time 
when Mr R says the phone was back in the UK. At least one of these payments was made in 
person, in the local currency, with the phone in question being present to authenticate the 
transaction. Im more persuaded by the technical evidence from Revolut than I am by Mr Rs 
testimony. And as such, I dont think Revoluts decision to reject Mr Rs fraud claim and treat 
the disputed transactions as authorised was unfair nor unreasonable. 
Ive also taken into account the suspicious phone call Mr R says he had, as well as him 
saying that other family members have had security issues with Revolut; his point about 
gambling; and his religion. But none of these change my mind as to the outcome of the 
complaint. Indeed, there were other payments made to a different gambling business which 
Mr R didnt initially raise when disputing the payments with Revolut.
Overall, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell Revolut they need to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman