DRN-2846041
The complaint
Mr L complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L has a classic car insurance policy with LV  hes had this since 2018. Mr L says that his 
car has always been in very good condition, and the paintwork had always been to a good 
standard. 
On 12 August 2020, Mr L says there was a severe storm in the area he lives. He says his 
car was on the drive under a weather resistant cover while the storm went on. Mr L says he 
didnt need to use the car the following day, and so the car stayed under the cover on the 
drive. Then on 14 August 2020, Mr L went to use the car and removed the cover. He says he 
found the paintwork on the car had been damaged, and the rubber around the boot and sun 
roof had been sealed shut. Mr L says that the car was in perfect condition before the storm 
and so he thinks the damage was caused by lightning.
Mr L reported this to LV and it sent out an independent engineer to look at the damage. Mr L 
says the engineer initially didnt turn up on the agreed date, and so the inspection was 
reorganised for September 2020. Mr L wasnt happy with the inspection that took place  he 
thought that the engineer was asking him questions that werent relevant to the claim and 
that he didnt listen to what Mr L was saying. 
The engineer didnt think the damage to Mr Ls car had been caused by the storm. They 
thought that this was more likely to have been caused by wear and tear. Mr L provided LV 
with photos of the car prior to the storm to support his version of events that the damage 
most likely happened in the storm, but these photos didnt change the opinion of LV. Mr L 
was also concerned that the engineer who inspected the car wasnt an expert and he had 
already made his mind up about what had caused the damage before he arrived to inspect 
the car.
LV took the advice of the engineer and declined Mr Ls claim because it didnt think the 
damage caused was as a result of accidental damage and more likely wear and tear which 
wasnt covered under Mr Ls policy.
Our investigator also looked into Mr Ls complaint, but he didnt uphold it and thought that LV 
had acted fairly when it declined the claim. He found that LV had got the opinion of three 
specialists who all thought that the damage to the paintwork is unlikely to have been caused 
by the storm. He also found that LV had offered for Mr L to get his own inspection done of 
the car and it would consider their findings  but Mr L hasnt done this. 
Mr L still disagreed with our investigator  Ive summarised his main points below.
It doesnt matter how many people have inspected the photos of his car  only one 
person went to assess the damage in person. And the engineer who assessed his 
car didnt have a clue about the effects of lightening on a non-metal bodied car. Mr L 
says the engineer had already made their mind up about the likely cause of the 
damage before his inspection  this is because he did a google search of the make 
and model of Mr Ls car prior to his visit and found that this type of car was prone to 
paintwork issues.
The rubbers were stuck to the body of the car and this hasnt been considered by the 
engineers.
Mr L has sent photos of the car in July 2020 and these clearly show that there was 
no damage at this time, so the damage must have been caused by the storm.
Because Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr L as I understand he feels very strongly about his case. But Id like to 
explain my reasons for this outcome below.
Its probably worth starting by explaining how this service looks at complaints such as Mr Ls. 
Where an insurer has declined a claim, as has happened in this case, its up to this service to 
check that the claim had been fairly declined in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I would also want to see that the insurer had done enough to investigate the 
circumstances surrounding the declined claim.
In Mr Ls case, I dont think theres a dispute about the fact that damage caused by general 
wear and tear wouldnt be covered under the policy. But what is in dispute is how the 
damage was caused. Mr L thinks it was caused by a storm, which is likely to be covered 
under the accidental damage part of his policy. But LV think the damage was caused by 
wear and tear to the paint work  so wouldnt be covered under the policy.
So its now for me to decide if LV did enough to determine the cause of the damage, and I 
think it has.
LV sent an engineer to Mr Ls property to inspect the damage caused to the car. The 
engineer took photos of the paint work. Its clear from looking at the photos that the paint 
work was damaged  but the engineer found that the damage isnt likely to have been 
caused by the storm. The report states:
 
On examination I found evidence of paintwork blemishes further inspection revealed the 
paintwork to show signs of Chalking;.A chalky dusting or powdering at the paint surfacing,  
often associated with old weathered paint finish.
Cause
Precipitation of elements within the paint .This may be due to :
1.Incompatible or defective materials within the paint.
2.Degradation of the binding agent.
3.Degradation of the pigment.
ConclusionI found no evidence of damage sustained to the vehicle consistent with the claim under 
notice, the issue is related to the paint on the vehicle as listed above.
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about the engineer; in that he did an internet search 
on the make and model of Mr Ls car before he arrived at the inspection  the search 
revealed that the make and model of Mr Ls car is prone to paint work issues. Subsequently, 
Mr L feels the engineer had already made a decision about what caused the damage before 
hed inspected the car. 
While I agree that its possible the engineer might have had a preconception about how the 
damage had been caused before he arrived to inspect Mr Ls car, I dont think I can fairly say 
that this is what his assessment was based on. The report explains why, after inspecting the 
car, he didnt think the damage to the paintwork was caused by the storm. The report doesnt 
seem unreasonable and doesnt base the assessment on or refer to the information found in 
the internet search. I have no reason to doubt the integrity of the report  and I dont think it 
was unfair of LV to rely on this when coming to its decision to decline the claim.
I can see that LV gave Mr L the option of having the car assessed by his own independent 
expert. This would be at a cost to Mr L, but that cost would be reimbursed if the report 
showed the damage was more likely to be caused by the storm. This would have also meant 
that Mr Ls car would have got a second physical inspection  something I know Mr L 
wanted. LV have said that they would consider the findings of a report provided by Mr L and 
reassess the claim. But Mr L hasnt opted to do this. He thinks too much time has now 
passed for an expert to be able to determine the cause of damage, and so he doesnt feel 
that paying for another inspection would be worthwhile.
LV let Mr L know on 24 September 2020 that it would consider any independent report from 
a specialist if he wanted to provide one. This wasnt that long after Mr L says the damage 
was caused. In any event, a different expert that LV consulted said that the length of time 
that has passed shouldnt impact a specialists ability to assess the cause of damage. But Mr 
L still hasnt provided any such report. 
Since Mr Ls case has been with this service, I can see that there have been two other 
experts that have looked at the photos of the paintwork on Mr Ls car  a different engineer 
and a paint specialist. They too have found that the damage to the paintwork is unlikely to 
have been caused by the storm  and have provided their reasons for this.
Because LV have had the opinion of three separate experts when determining what is likely 
to have happened in this case, I dont think it would be fair of me to say that it hadnt done a 
thorough enough investigation into the likely cause of the damage. And I havent seen a 
professional opinion that contradicts the findings of these experts. So I think it was fair of LV 
to rely on what these experts told it  and so it follows that I think it fairly declined the claim.
I have thought carefully about all of Mr Ls comments and the information he has sent to us. 
Ive seen the pictures hes sent of his car which he says were taken the month before the 
storm. Ive looked closely at these and I do agree that there arent any noticeable blemishes 
on the paintwork  albeit the photos are taken at a distance and its not possible to verify the 
date they were taken from the images themselves. But even if I accept that the photos do 
show the paintwork to be perfect  I dont think this necessarily means that the damage that 
happened later was as a result of the storm. 
Mr L has raised concerns that he has never had an explanation as to why the rubber on his 
car was stuck to the body. Mr L thinks that this must have been caused by the storm. LV 
havent disputed that a storm took place. But when LV has assessed the claim, it has 
considered what happened to the paintwork, as this is the repair work Mr L wanted as part of the claim. Based on what Ive said about the opinions of the experts, and that these dont 
support that the damage was caused by the storm, I dont think it was unfair of LV to rely on 
these opinions to decline the claim.
Mr L has disputed the expertise of the engineer that inspected his car. Hes said that person 
didnt have a clue about the effects of lightning on a non-metal bodied car, so wasnt in a 
position to able to say that the damage wasnt caused by the storm. I appreciate that this is a 
fairly unusual situation and so its possible that the engineer may not have had much, if any, 
experience in damage caused to paint work by lightning. But three different experts have 
either seen Mr Ls car or looked at the photos  theyve all found the damage to be 
consistent with wear and tear on the paintwork. There is currently no professional opinion 
that thinks it more likely the damage to be caused by the electrical storm.
In any event, If Mr L had concerns with the expertise of the engineer LV used, he had the 
option of getting the car inspected by his own independent expert -but hes chosen not to do 
this. 
LV has already agreed to pay Mr L £75 because of some customer service issues, and the 
engineer not turning up. I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. However, if Mr L does 
decide to get his own independent report, then LV should consider this and reassess the 
claim.
My final decision
For te reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman