DRN-4492570
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr A says:
Mr A was unemployed and looking for work. In June 2022, he was contacted via a social 
media platform to say there was a recruitment opportunity, and Mr A said he was interested.  
He was recruited and to gain commission, he had to complete tasks or missions  which 
involved him sending money to a crypto wallet in his name. Mr A had done some research 
and the platform looked professional. Mr A made a payment of £4,000 on 18 June 2022:
Date Method/ Beneficiary Amount
18 June 2022 Faster payment/ crypto wallet in name of Mr A £4,000
Total loss £4,000
Mr A completed the task but was then asked to top up the funds again. He said he didnt 
have any more money to do that, but was told that until he sent more money, he couldnt be 
paid. He asked for his money back, but this was denied. He realised he had been scammed. 
The funds had been send to a crypto currency investment from his crypto wallet.
As a result of the scam, he has come under a lot of financial pressure due to the money hes 
lost. He has a young family to support. He has become anxious and depressed and suffers 
from loss of appetite and sleepless nights. He feels fearful and embarrassed.
Mr A (via his representatives) says Starling shouldve protected him but didnt. He says he 
wasnt provided with any warnings about the payment or how to protect himself from scams. 
He says Starling should refund the money, plus 8% per annum interest and compensation of 
£250.
What Starling said:
Starling didnt uphold Mr As complaint or refund the money. They said:
- They sent a warning message to Mr A when he set up the new payee.
- They sent a tailored message to Mr A when he attempted the payment of £4,000 on 
18 June 2022. Mr A answered the questions to their satisfaction. Mr A appeared to 
have done sufficient research when he made the payment. So - Starling released it.
- Mr A authorised the payment.
- The crypto wallet that Mr A sent the money to was a legitimate and registered digital 
currency exchange service. If the funds were then moved to a merchants trading 
account, this was at Mr As own risk. Its not for Starling to check out the bona fides 
of the end recipient.
Our investigation so far:
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said:
- The payment was stopped by Starling for investigation.
- The intervention and questions asked by Starling were proportionate to the amount of 
the payment.
- On recovery, there wasnt anything for Starling to do  as the transfers to Mr As 
crypto wallet were then moved into an investment, which couldnt be recovered in 
any case.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that given that Starling intervened, the questions werent probing 
enough and werent relevant to what happened. He said they related to a safe account / 
impersonation scam, rather than an investment scam. Starling shouldve gone further, such 
as: how he discovered the investment; and how he had been instructed to make the 
payment. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr A has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr A didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Starling should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Mr As own account his crypto 
wallet. 
I need to decide whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A when 
he made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
If the payment was of a sufficient size and were out of character with how Mr A normally 
used his account  then we would expect Starling to have intervened and spoken to him 
about it. I looked at Mr As account  and it does appear the payment was unusual. It was to 
a new payee. It was the first activity on the account for six months, and there was a nil 
balance before June 2022. The payment in question was immediately preceded by a credit 
for £4,000.
So  it was the right thing for Starling to withhold the payment and contact Mr A about it  
which is what they did.
I can see that Starling did two things:
- They provided a warning when Mr A set up the new payee. This said Could this 
payee be part of a scam? If in doubt, just stop here and visit our website to learn 
about avoiding fraud.
- Then, when Mr A attempted the payment, Starling withheld it and asked him several 
questions. I reviewed these. They said:  
oWarning: Are you being told to make this payment? Anyone telling you what 
buttons to click, or asking you to read the text on this screen out loud is a 
criminal. You must not make the payment if you are being told how to answer the 
questions or explain the payment. Read each question carefully and answer 
truthfully, otherwise you could lose all the money sent. [Mr A] I understand.
oPlease tell us what this payment is for. [Mr A] Investments .
oWhat are you investing in? [Mr A] Shares, funds, cryptocurrency, foreign 
exchange or pension .
oHow are you making this investment? [Mr A] Via a crypto or currency exchange .
oWarning: Always research a company and check reviews from other people. If 
the investment returns sound too good to be true - this could be a scam. All 
Financial Advisors and Financial Institutions should be FCA registered. You can 
check the FCA register here https://register.fca.org.uk/s/  [Mr A] I understand 
oHave you made an investment like this before? [Mr A] Yes.
oHave you paid into this investment account and/or scheme before? [Mr A] Yes. 
oHave you paid this payee before? [Mr A]  Yes, I've paid them before.
oWhen did you last pay this person or company? [Mr A]  Today. 
oDid you pay them from your Starling account? [Mr A] No, I paid them from an account with a different bank. 
oHave you been given new bank details for this payee recently? [Mr A]  No. 
oWarning Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A 
genuine organisation will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will 
never tell you to move money to a new, 'safe' bank account. Fraudsters can make 
phone calls appear to come from a different number. Are you speaking with who 
you think you are? 
oIf in doubt you can call us on XXXX. [Mr A] I understand.
Based on this, I consider Starling provided relevant and proportionate warnings  and based 
on the answers Mr A gave, it was reasonable for them to allow the payment to go ahead. 
Mr A confirmed what the payment was for (crypto currency/ investment); he acknowledged it 
could be a scam and was advised to do research; he said he hadnt been given the payee 
details recently (even though the scam started a few days before); and said he had paid 
them before (even though the evidence Ive reviewed suggests he hadnt). 
I acknowledge that at the end of the questions, there is a reference to safe account  but this 
is at the end of several well targeted (and many more) questions about investment scams, 
so I set aside Mr As argument here.
Balance to be struck: Its also fair for me to say theres a balance to be struck: Starling has 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. And in this case, I think Starling acted reasonably in processing the 
payments, based on the value of the payment and Mr As answers.
Recovery: We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a 
scam takes place. I looked at whether Starling took the necessary steps in contacting the 
bank that received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. Starling said theyd not 
done so  because the payment went to Mr As crypto wallet  and the money was then 
moved onto the bitcoin trading platform. I think thats a reasonable thing for Starling to have 
concluded.
Mr A has lost a lot of money. Hes explained why the money was important to him, and the 
impact his losses have had. I was sorry to learn of his circumstances. He will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Starling to do anything here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman