DRN-4166612
The complaint
Mr R complains about his insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage), over 
the time taken to carry out repairs to his vehicle following an accident.
Any reference to Advantage in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mr Rs vehicle was involved in an accident. He contacted Advantage to 
report the accident and lodge a claim. Advantage initially assigned one of their approved 
repairers to carry out repairs, but this was a significant distance from Mr R. 
Mr R then located a garage nearer to his location, but it wasnt on Advantages approved list 
of repairers. Advantage then agreed rates with Mr Rs nominated garage until the end of 
August. There was also some confusion over the location of the vehicle, meaning it wasnt 
taken to the nominated garage until the end of September. Advantage approved the 
estimate of the cost of repairs from the nominated garage at the beginning of October. Mr R 
was provided with a courtesy car while his vehicle was in for repair.
Unhappy at the time taken to repair his vehicle, Mr R complained to Advantage. In their final 
response, Advantage upheld his complaint, acknowledging the delays in the repairs and that 
its communication and service to Mr R was below what it would have expected, and hed 
had to chase them for updates on progress with the repairs. In recognition of these points, 
Advantage awarded £150 compensation to Mr R.
Advantage issued a further final response in respect of a separate complaint Mr R made 
about conflicting information he was given by Advantage about his vehicle being categorised 
due to it being involved in an accident. In the final response they stated as Mr Rs vehicle 
had been involved in an accident (although suffering little damage) they were obliged to 
apply a Category X1 marker.
However, there were further delays in carrying out repairs because the nominated garage 
couldnt obtain the necessary parts from the vehicle manufacturer. So, Mr R complained to 
this service in December. The main elements of complaint were that Advantage had delayed 
repair of his vehicle and it was still at the garage, awaiting repair, nearly five months after the 
accident. He wanted Advantage to cover the cost of repairs, or to write off the vehicle if they 
wouldnt cover the cost of repairs. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Advantage were responsible for the delays 
up to the point they agreed rates with the nominated garage. While Advantage couldnt be 
held responsible for delays from the nominated garage awaiting parts, the investigator 
1 A Category X marker is where a vehicle has been subject to an insurance claim, but often has sustained 
minimal or no damage. Most commonly, this is where a car has been stolen but then recovered after an 
insurance company has paid out for the theft. Other categories apply in the circumstances where a car is 
written off due to the damage sustained. The category assigned in these cases depends on the severity of the 
damage, for example whether the damage is structural.
concluded Advantage hadnt adequately explained this to Mr R before the nominated garage 
was instructed to carry out the repairs. And that by selecting his own nominated garage, Mr 
R wouldnt receive certain benefits under the policy.   Because of this, the investigator 
thought Mr R had suffered a significant loss of expectation over how far Advantage would 
provide assistance to him in dealing with his nominated garage. And Mr R had to contact 
Advantage throughout the time, so the investigator thought their communication with Mr R 
had been poor. So, the investigator didnt think Advantages offer of compensation was fair in 
the circumstances. He thought Advantage should pay £400 (so, an additional £250 to the 
£150 theyd awarded).
Advantage disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said £400 compensation for loss of expectation was high. Mr R would still 
have had to spend time chasing progress with his nominated garage, given the issues with 
the lack of availability of parts to carry out the repairs (which were outside the control of 
either Advantage or the nominated garage). Advantage also said that since Mr R complained 
to this service, he had complained to them again about the issues around the repairs to this 
vehicle, in response to which they had awarded a further £100 compensation. Advantage felt 
their total compensation was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Advantage has acted fairly towards Mr R.
The main issue in Mr Rs complaint is the delay to repair of his vehicle following the accident, 
such that when he complained to this service, it was still at the garage, awaiting repair, 
nearly five months after the accident. Advantage acknowledge some issues with 
communication and the service theyve provided. But they say the delays are primarily due 
to the non-availability of the parts needed for the repairs, for which they arent responsible. 
They feel the compensation theyve offered Mr R is fair.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances of the case, the sequence of events and the 
information and evidence provided by both Mr R and Advantage.
Looking at the sequence of events, its clear there were initial delays from the time of the 
accident in August, through to the vehicle being delivered to the garage nominated by Mr R 
at the beginning of October. Variously these involved confusion over the vehicles location 
and delays in the vehicle then being recovered to the nominated garage. Advantage 
acknowledge these delays and that the service they provided wasnt up to the standard Mr R 
should have expected. They acknowledge Mr R had to chase hem for updates about what 
was happening and progress with the repairs. Ive concluded these delays were avoidable 
and so Advantage havent treated Mr R fairly, causing him distress and inconvenience. Ill 
come on to consider what I think would be fair and reasonable for Advantage to do to put 
things right.
Once the vehicle was delivered to the nominated garage for repairs, it appears the delay 
was then due to the non-availability of the parts needed to carry out the repairs. As 
Advantage had agreed the rates from the nominated garage and then the estimate of the 
cost of repairs, then I dont think they can be held responsible for the non-availability of 
parts. As that would be the responsibility of the nominated garage and/or the vehicle 
manufacturer.Ive also noted Mr R was provided with a courtesy car for the period his car was in for repair, 
albeit outside the terms and conditions of the policy (as he wasnt using an Advantage 
approved repairer). I think that reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive also considered the issue about the conflicting advice Mr R received about whether his 
vehicle would have a Category X marker applied. From what Ive seen he was given 
contradictory information about this issue. But, given the fact his vehicle was involved in an 
accident and subject to an insurance claim, together with the meaning of a Category X 
marker set out above, I dont think Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably in assigning the 
marker to Mr Rs vehicle. However, the confusion would have caused some distress to Mr R, 
although I dont think this will have been significant. Ill consider this when thinking about 
what Advantage needs to do to put things right.
Given the points and sequence of events set out above, Ive thought about what Advantage 
need to do to put things right. In doing so Ive considered what Mr R requested when he 
made his complaint to this service. As Advantage have agreed the estimate of repairs from 
Mr Rs nominated garage, then the issue is the timing of the repairs (and Advantage settling 
the claim based on the estimate and any applicable excesses under the policy). And given 
the indications the damage to Mr Rs vehicle was light (given the Category X marker) then it 
wouldnt be reasonable for Advantage to treat the claim based on a total loss.
But as Ive concluded some of the initial delays were avoidable and due to Advantage, plus 
what they have acknowledged was poor service, I think Mr R has suffered distress and 
inconvenience from the delays to repair of his vehicle. And Advantage acknowledge he was 
proactive in chasing them about progress and the delays. Taking all the circumstances of the 
case into account, I think a total of £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair 
and reasonable (that is, an additional £150 if theyve already paid the total of £250 they say 
theyve awarded).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr R a total of £400 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (that is, an 
additional £150 if theyve already paid the total of £250 they say theyve awarded).
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mr R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman