DRN-2872339
The complaint
Miss E complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) and she also complains that the deposit she 
paid was more than is stated on the finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss E, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss E acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss E. The car here was about 
six years old and had already completed about 40,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when SMF were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But if, as the case here, the fault happens after six 
months the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate it was present when the car was 
supplied.
I understand Miss Es testimony that the leak in the cars footwell is due to a manufacturing 
fault and that the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) is blocked. But Miss E hasnt provided any 
further evidence, such as an independent engineers report, to substantiate her concerns 
and to demonstrate the problems were present, or developing, at the time the car was 
supplied. Im therefore not persuaded there is sufficient evidence the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
the deposit
Ive seen the text messages Miss E has supplied in which she queries the additional £750 
deposit with the person she says she was discussing matters with at the dealership. 
But the dealership dispute there was ever a £750 deposit paid and the invoice Miss E has 
supplied is not from the dealership.
Im afraid I dont think there is sufficient evidence that Miss E paid the dealership an 
additional £750 deposit and Im therefore not asking SMF to take any action about that. The 
deposit of £250 listed on the finance agreement is supported by a receipt from the 
dealership and Im not persuaded, on the evidence I have, that its been listed incorrectly.
the wrong car
Ive seen messages which appear to confirm the car Miss E received was not the one she 
expected to receive. She complained to SMF about that the day after she took receipt of the 
car.
But SMF offered to end the agreement at that point and thats what I would have expected 
them to do. As Miss E didnt get back in touch with the business for about six months I think 
its clear she accepted the car she was financing. So, I dont think it would now be fair to tell 
SMF to take any further action about that potential mis-sale.
the warranty
The warranty isnt something that is listed on the finance agreement and isnt something I 
therefore think it would be fair to hold SMF responsible for.
Miss E should therefore refer any complaint she has about the warranty to the dealership 
who have provided it.
I note that she explained to SMF shortly after she took receipt of the car that the dealership 
had offered to cover any issues in the first six months and it also appears that there were no 
faults reported in those six months. So, even if Im wrong and the warranty was financed 
through the agreement with SMF, I dont think theres evidence that Miss E has lost out 
financially and needs to be compensated for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman