DRN-3306988
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc restricted access to his accounts. 
What happened
Mr N held a bank account, a Help to Buy ISA and a credit card with Bank of Scotland. On 11 
December 2019 the bank gave Mr N 75 days notice that it was closing his accounts. Mr Ns 
complaint about the closure of the bank account has been dealt with in another decision.
On 4 February, Bank of Scotland restricted access to Mr Ns bank account. He said that he 
couldnt use online banking when there was no reason for this, that the bank wouldnt log a 
complaint for him and that he wasnt able to transfer his account using the account switching 
service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr N said that the bank were being discriminatory towards him based on his accent and the 
difficulty he had communicating with it.
The investigator looked into that, but it didnt change her mind.
Mr N didnt accept what the investigator said.
I subsequently told Mr N and Bank of Scotland that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I 
said that the bank hadnt provided sufficient evidence to show that it was entitled to close the 
account without notice. And it incorrectly told Mr N that it had closed his help-to-buy ISA and 
the credit card. I proposed that Bank of Scotland should pay Mr N £200 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience that caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have already issued a decision on Bank of Scotlands decision to give Mr N notice that 
was going to close Mr Ns bank account. I cant look into that again. 
The ombudsman in that case found that Mr Ns help to buy ISA and credit card were both 
still open as at April 2021  and we have evidence to support that. This complaint was 
referred to us in April 2020. It follows that Mr N couldnt refer a complaint to us about the 
closure of the ISA and the credit card as they had not been closed at the point he referred 
the complaint to us. 
I agree that the communication from Bank of Scotlands has been confusing as it said that 
the help to buy ISA and credit card had been closed. It also shows that its investigation into 
this matter was poor as it did not identify that. I will take that into account in my award for 
distress and inconvenience below.
Im looking at Bank of Scotlands actions following the notice to close of the bank account. 
The terms and conditions of the account allow Bank of Scotland to close an account without 
notice for a number of reasons. The ombudsman on the other complaint has found that the 
reasons for giving notice to close the account in the first place were fair. 
The bank has explained that it later carried out a review of Mr Ns account and that found a 
number of things. So it removed access to the account immediately. It is relying on its terms 
and conditions, which say:
Ending this agreement or an account, benefits package or service
If we reasonably think that:
there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the account;
you are or may be behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive way);
Bank of Scotland has not provided me with any evidence to support two of the reasons it 
gave for closing the account without notice. Despite requests, it hasnt given me a clear 
explanation why the third reason was illegal or fraudulent activity or constituted improper 
behaviour. In view of that, based on the information available to me, I am not persuaded that 
the bank acted fairly when it closed the account or restricted access to it without notice.
I accept the bank was entitled to close the account  but it hasnt provided sufficient 
evidence and explanation to support that it was reasonable for it to think that the 
circumstances of this individual case met the threshold to close the account immediately. 
I havent seen any evidence to support that the decisions made by the bank were 
discriminatory.
Mr N said that he suffered a financial loss because he thought the help-to-but ISA was 
closed. He said he could have paid into the ISA until 2029 and would have received a bonus 
at that point. But I dont consider he has shown that he has suffered a financial loss. We 
dont know what he would have paid into the ISA or for how long. And he still has that money 
to invest elsewhere. Mr N hasnt claimed any other financial loss.
That leaves compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr N has suffered. He would 
always have had to find alternative banking facilities  but he was effectively given only 
around 49 days, rather than the 75 days he was entitled to. He was also given incorrect and 
misleading information by the bank in its final response that it had closed his help-to-buy ISA 
and credit card. The banks evidence shows those accounts were not closed until much 
later.
Looking at what Mr N has told us about the impact of this matter on him I consider it would 
be fair for Bank of Scotland to pay him £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its decision to close the account without notice and in giving him incorrect 
information.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr N £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused to him as a result of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman