DRN-1442434
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss G took out a credit card with American Express in June 2005. She was sold the PPI at 
the same time through an internet application in connection with this card.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 5% of the 
monthly outstanding balance for 6 months if Miss G was off work sick or lost her job. And if 
she was still claiming, then in the seventh month it wouldve repaid the outstanding balance 
in full.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. Miss G didnt agree with our adjudicator, 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Gs case. And, having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
I think American Express made it clear that Miss G didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive seen 
copies of the internet screens in use in 2005  the ones Miss G is likely to have seen when 
she applied for her credit card. And theres a section specifically relating to PPI.
These screen shots present the policy as optional as it gives the customer two equally 
prominent options to either say yes or no to PPI. So, it seems to me Miss G was given a 
choice and its more likely that she chose the policy and thats why it was applied to her 
account.
And as it appeared on her monthly statements, had it been added to her account without 
either her knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query and complain about it 
in the first few months following the opening of her credit card account. And Ive seen no 
evidence that she did.
I dont think American Express advised Miss G to take the policy out. I say this because 
there doesnt appear to have been any involvement from a representative at the time of the 
sale - the application was completed on the internet. This means American Express didnt 
have to take adequate steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to give 
Miss G information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she could make a proper 
choice about whether or not to take the policy out.Its possible the information American Express gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  she told us she was 
employed and in good health  so it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Miss G has said - but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman