DRN-2236710
complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
Mr and Mrs L applied for a Total Mortgage Protection Plan  this plan was sold by Halifax 
and it offered a package of insurance products within the plan including PPI, life and critical 
illness insurance. Ive only considered the sale of the PPI as part of this decision. 
The PPI policy provided cover for Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £308.21 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £18.41 a month. 
At the time, Mrs L was employed in administration. She has told us she was entitled to 
statutory sick pay through her employer and she didnt have any other means of repaying 
their mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs L has said she was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
Although the mortgage was in joint names, Mr L didnt take the PPI that was offered as part 
of the Plan. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Halifax should have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2004. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC Code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If Halifax gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs L, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs L suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs L have been able to provide copies of all documents from the 
time of sale  I dont think thats surprising given how long ago the policy as sold. But it does 
mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is more likely 
based on the available evidence. 
I have seen a screenshot of Halifaxs computer records where it asked Mr and Mrs L a 
series of questions and recorded their answers to check their eligibility and suitability for the 
policy  so I think it must have been discussed  to some degree. 
We have seen a number of cases from around the time Mr and Mrs L bought the PPI and 
have developed a good understanding of Halifaxs sales process. It usually made the 
optional nature of the PPI clear and wouldnt have added it to their customers account 
without their explicit consent. 
I also note that Mr L didnt take the PPI elements of the plan offered by Halifax  so they 
appear to have exercised some degree of consideration and choice. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure for Mrs L only. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says that advice was provided during this sale. Looking at what happened when 
Halifax sold Mr and Mrs L the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because 
this sale was made in a branch, and from what Ive seen of sales made in branch, with an 
adviser present, they were usually advised. 
This means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests 
that Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs L. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Ls financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although I can see a record of the 
questions Halifax asked Mrs L (as the only person covered by PPI) to try and establish 
whether Mrs L had a need for the policy  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable. I cant for example see that it sought details of her employee benefits or other means to see if she had alternative means of making their repayments if she wasnt able to 
work.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Mrs L met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  Mrs L would only have received statutory 
sick pay if she was unable to work due to illness, her redundancy benefits are likely 
to be limited and she didnt have any savings they could fall back on. The policy 
would have helped Mr and Mrs L manage the consequences if Mrs L was unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs L.
 
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs L. There was 
nothing about Mrs Ls employment or occupation which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim. And this policy didnt exclude claims for known health issues  and in 
any event Mrs L hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions. 
- While the policy included a requirement that Mrs L be disabled or unemployed for 30 
days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 
24 months for each claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mrs Ls 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential consequences should Mrs L be unable to make the 
repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if 
Mrs L was unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs L would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L all of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court 
would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs L. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs L suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs L would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr and Mrs L have suffered loss 
or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised them that there was a 
suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
Mrs L was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, 
meaning what they thought they was getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
But the information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs L applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs L would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Halifax made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs L would get back 
in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ls 
expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mrs L was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to 
them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mrs L wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  this policy didnt 
exclude claims due to any pre-existing medical conditions (Mrs L didnt have any in any 
event) and she was also in permanent employment. So, I still think they had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs L might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs L, in their 
circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it out.
If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would do. 
And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ls 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would have been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Halifax may not have told Mr and Mrs L that any claim Mr L made would be limited to a 24-
month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but Mrs L had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs L would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences should Mrs L be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they was getting and provided benefits 
that would help them manage the consequences if Mrs L was made redundant, or unable to 
work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not 
Mr and Mrs L would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs L found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2002 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative says a court might take if 
it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman