DRN-3479015
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDF)trading as Very 
removed the option to buy now and pay later (BNPL) from her account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I appreciate Miss M presumed that she could make use of a BNPL option for her purchases. 
However, the terms and conditions of the account state that 
Buy Now Pay Later Transactions: Selected purchases may be available on one of the 
following Buy Now Pay Later offers (BNPL Transactions) as published from time to time.
And the terms of the Very website state:
BNPL allows you to delay paying for certain transactions for up to 12 calendar months.
It is clear that this is not offered on all purchases and SDF was not obliged to make these 
terms available as Miss M wants. I have seen nothing to say that Miss M was told that she 
could use BNPL on every purchase she made. The agreement and its terms and conditions 
do not say that BNPL will be offered on all purchases and I have not seen any advertising 
material which may have led Miss M to reach a different conclusion.
SDF has told this service that BNPL may be available at checkout if an account is eligible to 
use it. The offers are produced by its internal systems and the BNPL option may be offered 
on other purchases. In simple terms it is an option which may be offered by SDF and is not 
guaranteed for every purchase. As such I cannot conclude that SDF has done anything 
wrong by not offering BNPL terms on the purchases Miss M has made.
I gather Miss M has encountered some financial difficulties and I would remind SDF of its 
obligation to deal with Miss M positively and sympathetically in helping her resolve her 
financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman