DRN-4343781
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that negative marks wrongly placed on their credit files by Aldermore 
Bank Plc affected their application to remortgage. They say these marks meant they were 
offered a much higher interest rate than they were expecting.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr and Mrs C received a mortgage offer from Aldermore. They bought their 
new home, and they drew down the mortgage advance on 21 January 2022. Unfortunately, 
completion on their property had been delayed, and they needed to pay an additional 
months rent for their existing property before they could move. That meant that they would 
struggle to also pay all of their first mortgage payment, which was a larger payment than 
normal, in the same month.
Mr and Mrs C discussed this with Aldermore, and it came to an arrangement with them
where they made a part payment for the first month, and then paid off the very small amount
of arrears this generated over the next few months.
These arrears were less than one full months payment, so they should not have been
recorded on Mr and Mrs Cs credit file. Unfortunately, although Mr and Mrs C didnt realise it
at the time, Aldermore recorded an arrangement to pay on their credit files.
Mr and Mrs C told us that, a few months after this, they wanted to remortgage, just to add
some extra lending. They contacted a broker to help them with their application. Mr and Mrs
Cs complaint to us was that theyd been quoted a higher rate of lending, because they had
marks on their credit file.
Aldermore said it spoke to Mr C on 19 August 2022. He said Aldermore had wrongly marked
his credit file with an arrangement to pay, after it told him the agreement hed reached with it,
to cover his first monthly mortgage payment, wouldnt affect his credit file. He also said hed
recently received an offer from Aldermore to extend his borrowing, but the interest rate
quoted was much higher, because of this adverse credit file mark.
When this complaint came to our service, Aldermore said it accepted it wasnt necessary to
set a payment arrangement for Mr and Mrs C and report this to credit reference agencies
(CRAs). Their account was always less than one month in arrears. Aldermore apologised
for this, and on 31 August, it said it would get this amended. It expected this amendment to
take effect at the CRAs in about a week. Aldermore offered Mr and Mrs C £200 to apologise.
But Aldermore said Mr and Mrs As original complaint hadnt included the point they were
making now, that this credit file mistake had affected their ability to remortgage with it. When
our service asked Aldermore for some additional information on this, it said the interest rate
on the decision in principle that it gave Mr and Mrs C in August 2022 wasnt affected by the
negative markers on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files. The rate they were offered was the rate
Aldermore had available for all its customers at this time.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. I wont set out her reasoning
here, as I havent adopted it.
Mr and Mrs C replied, to say they thought their complaint had been misunderstood. They
said this had definitely affected their credit files, and they said they could show us failed loan
applications to prove this. They wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman,
so it was passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on 
this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to ask 
Aldermore to do more than it had previously offered. This is what I said then: 
I think there has been some confusion in this case. Id like to start by considering what 
Mr and Mrs Cs broker told us, which is a little different to the complaint Mr and Mrs C 
made.
Information from Mr and Mrs Cs broker
Our service has spoken to Mr and Mrs Cs broker about this complaint, and what he said
was a little different from what Mr and Mrs C had previously told us.
Mr and Mrs Cs broker told us Aldermore would allow Mr and Mrs C to apply to extend 
their existing lending, although the mortgage they had carried an early repayment 
charge (ERC) during the fixed interest rate period. The broker said Aldermore had told 
him that Mr and Mrs C would have to apply for a new mortgage, but their existing ERC 
would be waived, if Mr and Mrs C were just extending their borrowing with it.
Their broker told us Mr and Mrs Cs first application to Aldermore was refused, 
apparently because theyd applied within six months of their original lending starting. 
Aldermore said they had to wait until the first six months was up. So the broker said he 
applied again to Aldermore once this time was up, but the decision in principle was to 
refuse any lending.
The broker said something must have gone wrong, because Mr and Mrs C had been 
granted a mortgage by Aldermore in late 2021, and in mid-2022 they were being refused 
at the very first stage. So he asked Mr and Mrs C to provide their credit files, and then 
realised that they had an arrangement to pay marked on these files.
The broker told us Mr and Mrs C then got the arrangement to pay removed from their 
credit files, but by the time this was removed, interest rates had risen, and Mr and Mrs C 
could no longer afford to remortgage.
Ive asked Mr and Mrs Cs broker, and Mr and Mrs C themselves, for details of these 
earlier decisions in principle which were declined. That information hasnt been supplied. 
I note that what Mr and Mrs Cs broker has told our service doesnt appear to be 
consistent with what Mr and Mrs C told us about their complaint, or the complaint 
Aldermore recorded. And, importantly, the first decision in principle which Mr and Mrs C 
sent to our service, was dated 16 August 2022, and was approved. Mr and Mrs C didnt 
complain to Aldermore about adverse markers on their credit files until 19 August, and 
Aldermore took action to remove the markers in late August.
So what Mr and Mrs Cs broker has told us also doesnt seem to me to be consistent 
with the other evidence in this case. I dont think its likely that Mr and Mrs Cs 
remortgage applications initially failed because of adverse markers on their credit file, and the higher interest rate they were then quoted was a result of the time taken to have 
these markers removed.
Ill now turn to the complaint Mr and Mrs C originally made, which is in two parts. The 
first is that Aldermore wrongly marked their credit files with an arrangement to pay. And 
the second is that the lending decision in principle they got in August 2022 was affected 
by the markers on their credit file.
Payment arrangement wrongly recorded on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files
Aldermore accepts that it told Mr and Mrs C their credit files wouldnt be affected by the
agreement theyd reached with it, to manage the problems caused by an overlap of their 
last rent payment and their first monthly mortgage payment. But it then wrongly 
recorded an arrangement to pay on their credit files.
Aldermore has apologised for this, and offered a payment of £200, which Mr and Mrs C
refused. They that doesnt make up for the impact this had on their remortgage 
quotation. Ill look at the question of whether their remortgage quotation was affected 
separately, below.
Mr and Mrs C also told us they were turned down for some other lending in September 
2022, which they thought was because of the markers on their credit files. But I can see 
that at the end of August, Aldermore said it expected these markers to be removed 
within about a week. I would not have expected Mr and Mrs C to apply for further 
lending until the markers had been removed, later in September. And if they were turned 
down for lending after this, I dont think this would be likely to be as a result of the 
negative markers Aldermore had put in place, because I would have expected these to 
be removed by this time.
So, setting aside the issue of whether Mr and Mrs Cs remortgage was affected by the
negative markers on their credit file, which Ill consider below, I think that Aldermores 
offer of £200 in compensation does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of 
their complaint.
I dont think Aldermore has paid this to Mr and Mrs C, so Ill award this to them now. But 
Ill also allow Aldermore to take into account any payment its already made to Mr and 
Mrs C for this complaint, in case they changed their minds about accepting this offer 
more recently.
Remortgage offer at a higher interest rate, because of the negative markers
Mr and Mrs C have sent us a mortgage illustration, dated 16 August 2022, which is at a 
fixed rate of 5.08% for five years. They are apparently concerned that this rate is 
considerably higher than their original mortgage offer, at 3.38%. They are firmly of the 
view that this difference is because of the negative markers which were on their credit 
file at the time.
Aldermore says that Mr and Mrs C werent offered a higher rate in August 2022 because 
of anything on their credit file. Aldermore says the rates offered were the only rates 
available to its customers at the time they applied.
I think its worth comparing the two rates, and the underlying applications, to see if what
Aldermore says is supported by what I can see in the documentation.I have seen Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer, dated 3 December 2021. Aldermore has 
shown us that this is the same rate as that set out on an illustration they received on 11 
November 2021. That carries a rate of 3.38% for two years. The offer was based on 
lending of £280,029 on a property valued at £360,000, giving a Loan to Value (LTV) of 
78%. The Aldermore managed rate, which is the variable rate charged after the fixed 
rate period ends, in November 2021 (and then quoted on their December mortgage 
offer) was 4.58%.
Mr and Mrs C have sent us the mortgage illustration they received along with the August
decision in principle. This was dated 16 August 2022, and at a fixed rate of 5.08% for 
five years. This was based on lending of £310,000 on a property valued at £420,000. I 
think its worth noting that the Aldermore managed rate had risen substantially by this 
time. In August 2022 it was 6.23%.
I think a number of things had changed, between Mr and Mrs Cs November 2021 
mortgage illustration, which led to the December 2021 offer, and the illustration they 
received for additional lending in August 2022. And I think these changes explain the 
difference between the rate Mr and Mrs C secured in December 2021 and the rate they 
were offered in August 2022.
Most importantly, interest rates had clearly changed in the period between these two 
quotes. This is visible in the external, Bank of England lending rates, which started to 
increase just after Mr and Mrs C received their offer in December 2021, and had risen 
substantially by the time Mr and Mrs C received the August illustration. That change is 
reflected in the managed rate that Aldermore charges once a fixed rate deal ends, which 
is recorded on the December 2021 offer and on the August 2022 illustration. That had 
increased by 1.65%.
I think that change in underlying interest rates explains most of the difference in rates
between Mr and Mrs Cs December offer and the August illustration. But there is one 
other factor at work too. Mr and Mrs Cs August mortgage illustration is for a longer 
period. I would expect a mortgage interest rate fixed for five years to be slightly higher 
than one fixed for only two years.
For these reasons, I dont think its likely that the mortgage illustration Mr and Mrs C 
received in August 2022 was at a higher rate because of negative marks on their credit 
files at the time. And, given the underlying change in Bank of England rates between 
these dates, I dont think Mr and Mrs C could reasonably have expected that the same 
rate they secured in December 2021 would then be offered again for further borrowing 
in August 2022.
I think its likely that this difference is explained mainly by changes in the underlying 
interest rates between these times, which would have affected any customer 
remortgaging at the same time. And also partly by the fact that Mr and Mrs C were 
making a different application in August 2022, to the one they made the previous 
December.
So I dont think Aldermore has made a mistake here. I know that Mr and Mrs C will be
disappointed, but I dont think Aldermore has to do more than make the payment of 
£200 which it previously offered.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C replied to say that he and Mrs C wished to accept. And Aldermore said it had nothing 
further to add. So, neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aldermore Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs C £200 in compensation 
which it previously offered for this complaint, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman