DRN-3786397
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed her after she fell victim to an 
investment scam 
What happened
Miss W was contacted by an individual on Facebook. He posed as an investment adviser 
but, unbeknownst to Miss W, he was a scammer.
Miss W carried out some checks to satisfy herself the adviser and his company were above 
board. She decided to invest £3,500 initially and sent money to a cryptocurrency wallet shed 
set up in her name. She then moved the funds on from there, at the scammers instruction. 
This was in August 2021. In the weeks that followed Miss W could see her investment 
growing, viewing her holdings through an online dashboard. 
Happy with how the investment was performing she invested a further £1,000 in 
December 2021 and a further £5,000 in February 2022.
But when Miss W received none of the promised returns, she realised shed been scammed. 
She contacted Santander to report what had happened, but it said it wouldnt reimburse her 
loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss W has been the victim of a cruel scam. I dont doubt shes suffered an 
emotional and mental toll, as well as a financial one. But Im afraid Im not upholding her 
complaint as I find Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in the particular circumstances 
of this case. 
Santander is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code, which seeks to see victims of scams reimbursed in most circumstances. 
But the Code doesnt apply here, and thats because Miss W sent money to a cryptocurrency 
wallet in her name.
Santander does still have obligations to monitor accounts for suspicious activity and to 
protect its customers from fraud though. Even where the CRM Code doesnt apply. It must 
be on the lookout for account usage that looks unusual and/or bears the hallmarks of 
common scams. And if it detects such usage then it should intervene in a payment to make 
sure its customer isnt at risk of financial harm through fraud. 
Ive considered the payments made by Miss W and thought about whether there was 
enough going on to put Santander on notice that something might be wrong. I dont think 
there was. 
The first payment, whilst a significant loss to Miss W, isnt so large and unusual in general 
terms that Id expect Santander to act. Even though it was to a new payee. 
The subsequent payments are then made to the same payee, four and six months later 
respectively. They werent made in quick succession. And as the payee had by the time of 
each payment been established for several months, with no problems being flagged, I can 
see why it would have been viewed as carrying a low risk to Santander.
As I dont find the payments made by Miss W ought to have appeared unusual to Santander, 
it follows that it neednt have done anything more to stop them from leaving her account; it 
made no error in allowing the payments to be made. It was then fair and reasonable for it to 
decide not to reimburse Miss Ws loss once the scam was reported.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman