DRN-4217534
The complaint
Mrs R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) refused her claim for a bonus 
under the Refer a Friend scheme. 
Mrs R is represented in this complaint by her grandson. But, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs R 
throughout.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs R was referred for a bonus under Co-ops Refer a Friend scheme. 
Co-op decided she had a valid claim and paid her £125 under the scheme. Mrs R switched 
her account out of Co-op in December 2022. She opened a new account with Co-op in 
February 2023 and she was again referred for a bonus under the Refer a Friend scheme. 
Co-op refused. It said shed already benefited from the offer and the terms and conditions of 
the scheme said she could only receive one such bonus payment. 
Mrs R complained. She acknowledged shed received a payment in December 2022 but that 
offer had ended and Co-op had then opened a new incentive in February 2023. She said the 
terms and conditions made no reference to any previous offers and she thought it was 
reasonable to interpret each offer as being separate and independent of each other. Co-op 
maintained its decision and said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
scheme. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said the Refer a Friend scheme had been 
operating since November 2020 and the February 2023 offer wasnt a new incentive but a 
relaunch of the same scheme with some amendments. 
They also noted Co-op had referred to part of the terms and conditions that said it could 
withhold payments if they had reasonable grounds to suspect the applicant was seeking to 
materially abuse or profiteer from the offer. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to 
an Ombudsman for a decision. I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I sent 
a provisional decision to Mrs R and Co-op to give them an opportunity to comment. Both 
parties said they had nothing further to add, so my findings and my decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the Refer a Friend scheme say the following:
The Recommended Friend is entitled to only one payment even if they switch more than 
one account to us or if more than one Recommender refers them.
Co-op has said the Refer a Friend scheme has been operating since February 2020 and the 
terms and conditions have been amended on several occasions since then. It said the 
scheme was relaunched in February 2023 and this was not a new offer or a new scheme. It 
also said it didnt consider Mrs R to be a new customer just because of the change of 
account details as her profile was linked to the previous closed account.
Mrs Rs argument is that the terms and conditions dont clearly say that the scheme is for 
new customers who have not been referred before or who are not returning customers. She 
says theres nothing in the terms and conditions or the literature accompanying the scheme 
to say whether the offer is a relaunch of a previous one or a new offer. Mrs R also noted that 
being an existing customer of Co-op didnt make her ineligible for the scheme  the terms 
and conditions only state that the recommended friend must open a new current account 
and complete a full switch from their old account. And its webpage simply said that the 
person being referred would qualify if they dont have a Co-op current account. Mrs R didnt 
have an account in February 2023 before she was referred for a bonus.
Co-op has a responsibility to provide information to its consumers that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. Mrs R doesnt think the terms and conditions of the Refer a Friend scheme are 
clear. And, on balance, I agree. Co-op has said the scheme is one scheme thats been 
re-launched and amended over the last three years. It seems its intention is to restrict a 
consumer to one payment throughout the course of the whole scheme. 
But I dont think that is set out clearly in the terms and conditions. They simply say the 
Recommended Friend is only entitled to one payment. They dont say over what time period 
and theres no reference to previous terms and conditions or relaunches of the same 
scheme. I also think the terms and conditions are unclear about the eligibility of returning 
customers. In my view, the terms are ambiguous and could be interpreted either way. And, 
as such, I dont think they meet the test of being clear, fair and not misleading.
Co-op has also referred to another part of the terms and conditions, which say:
We reserve the right to withhold any payment (or to reverse any payment already made) 
where we have reasonable grounds for suspecting you have sought to materially abuse or 
profiteer from the offer. For example, this may arise if we have grounds for believing that you 
have sought to engage in a marketing campaign to solicit applications from individuals who 
are not from within your family or immediate circle of friends.
Mrs R noted the example given in the above terms and conditions and pointed out that the 
recommender in this case was her grandson. So, she could not see how that could apply. 
For its part, Co-op hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that Mrs R has sought to 
materially abuse or profiteer from the offer either. And so, in the absence of any evidence to 
show Mr R has profiteered or materially abused the scheme, I dont think Co-op can rely on 
this term to refuse her claim.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I dont think Co-op has acted fairly or reasonably in refusing Mrs Rs 
claim for a bonus under the Refer a Friend scheme. To put things right, I think Co-op should 
pay Mrs R the £125 she claimed under that scheme. 
While Mrs R said the person who recommended her for the bonus (her grandson) also lost 
out, they are not party to this complaint and so I cannot make a decision on that matter.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay 
Mrs R £125 under the Refer a Friend scheme.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman