DRN-1562175
The complaint
Mr B has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy that 
its been unable to trace a pension he held with a former employer.
What happened
Mr B understands that he may have a pension with a former employer dating from his 
employment in the 1980s. Due to house moves and other factors, he doesnt have any 
documentary evidence of his interest in the pension. He contacted the Pension Tracing 
Service which suggested the pension may be held by Prudential.
Mr B contacted Prudential but it said it was unable to trace any details for him, or for the 
employers policy on its systems. Mr B complained about Prudentials handling of his enquiry 
and it accepted that the service it provided could have been better. It offered him £50 for any 
inconvenience caused but restated that it couldnt locate the policy and asked for any other 
documentation Mr B could provide.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. An investigator considered the complaint but she 
didnt think it should be upheld. She explained that this service didnt hold historic pension 
information and couldnt make any additional checks. Prudential appeared to have made the 
correct searches and although this had not produced any results, it wasnt acting unfairly. 
The investigator felt that the offer it had made for the service failings was fair.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with her reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
Essentially, I think Prudential has made the searches that it could reasonably be expected to 
make. Unfortunately that has not identified Mr Bs pension or his former employers pension 
scheme. 
The negative search result isnt something that this service can independently check or 
verify. We dont hold pension records, thats the role of the DWP or the Pension Tracing 
Service. I note that the Pension Tracing Service appears only to have identified Prudential 
on its second search, so that in itself may raise a question mark on how reliable the 
information is. And even if the pension scheme could be identified, that may not establish 
that Mr B was a member of it.
Im sorry that there is very little I can add to what the investigator has already said. But for 
the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint as I think Prudentials offer is fair.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. I think its 
offer of £50 is fair and it should pay this sum to Mr B if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman