DRN-4198584
The complaint
Mr C complains that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) has charged him an unfairly high 
interest rate on his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr C took out a self-build mortgage with Skipton in 2005  with the funds released in stages 
to allow Mr C to build the property. Mr Cs mortgage started on a three-year base rate 
tracker, before reverting to Skiptons standard variable rate (SVR) from 2008. 
Mr C says the property is habitable and he has lived there since 2012, but because of his 
personal circumstances, he has been unable to complete the project to the level needed to 
obtain a final building completion certificate. Until it made a concession to do so in March 
2023, Skipton said it could not change Mr Cs self-build mortgage to a standard residential 
mortgage without this certificate. As a result, Mr C remained on Skiptons SVR from 2008 to 
earlier this year. 
Mr C explains that due to the property not being completed, he is unable to approach other 
lenders for a new mortgage. So, he believes he is a mortgage prisoner. 
At the time Mr C first took out his mortgage, Skipton included a term in a number of its 
mortgages which capped its SVR at 3% above base rate. For ease, it applied the same SVR 
across its mortgage book rather than just those accounts which had the contractual benefit 
of the 3% cap. In 2010, after discussions with the regulator, Skipton suspended the cap due 
to exceptional circumstances related to the Bank of Englands base rate. Skipton set out 
that it intended to reinstate the cap once certain criteria had been met  it reinstated the cap 
earlier this year. 
Mr C wrote to Skiptons CEO in 2010 to express his dissatisfaction with its decision 
surrounding the cap removal and asked it to reconsider. Skipton replied but did not reinstate 
the cap at that time. 
With the cap suspended, Skipton was able to and did increase its SVR above the level it 
wouldve been had the cap remained in place. 
In 2018, Mr C wrote to Skipton complaining about the cap suspension, its failure to reinstate 
it (given that in his view, a low base rate was now the norm, not an exception) and its 
decision to decline his request for a new rate in 2017 without Mr C obtaining a completion 
certificate. Skipton issued its final response to this complaint in February 2018. It said Mr C 
had been on the SVR since 2008 and it had increased the SVR in 2010 but Mr C did not ask 
for a new rate until 2017. It explained that Skipton no longer offered interest rates on self-
build mortgages so until Mr C completed the project, it would not be able to offer him a new 
rate.
In 2020, Mr C wrote to Skipton again. He remained unhappy about the cap suspension and 
Skiptons failure to reinstate it since. He said Skiptons actions were leaving him no choice 
but to remain on its SVR which was significantly more than the fixed rates Skipton was 
offering new customers. He also complained that Skipton only passed on a partial reduction 
to its SVR following a 0.65% cut to base rate. Mr C explained that Skiptons actions had led 
to him using inheritance to make a lump sum payment of £50,000 toward his mortgage 
balance rather than putting it toward other things. 
Skipton responded to Mr Cs most recent complaint by referring him back to its final 
response from 2018. It said it would not reinvestigate matters already considered in that 
letter and explained that Mr C was now out of time to refer those matters to the Ombudsman 
Service. It did respond to Mr Cs complaint about the partial reduction to its SVR, but did not 
uphold this element of the complaint. It set out that the base rate was one of many elements 
that were factored into the pricing of its mortgage book. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us in January 2021. Skipton consented to us considering the 
complaint about the partial SVR reduction, but not the other points raised by Mr C as it 
thought they were out of time. 
One of our investigators looked into the case and found that Mr Cs complaint about the 
2020 partial reduction to Skiptons SVR had been made in time. But that he had brought the 
complaints about the suspension of the cap, the level of the SVR since the cap suspension 
and the refusal of a new interest rate in 2017 out of time under the rules that apply to our 
service. She did set out that we could consider a complaint about the unfairness of the SVR 
from 2018 onward as such a complaint is a series of complaints about the interest Mr C was 
being charged on an on-going basis. Our investigator explained that in deciding whether the 
SVR charged was fair in the period we could consider, she would need to take into account 
the history of the SVR and mortgage account before that date in order to determine whether 
the rate charged from the period we can consider is fair. 
Neither party agreed with the investigators assessment so the complaint was passed to one 
of my ombudsman colleagues to issue a jurisdiction decision setting out which parts of the 
complaint, if any, he thought this service had the power to consider under the DISP rules. 
A jurisdiction decision was issued in 2022 in which the ombudsman reached the following 
conclusions:
Skiptons initial decision to suspend the cap in 2010 was out of time as was its 
refusal in 2017 to offer Mr C a new rate. Mr C received a final response letter 
addressing both points in 2018 and he did not refer his complaint to our service 
within six months of that letter. 
Mr Cs complaint points that Skipton has failed to reinstate the cap, has not offered 
him a new fixed rate and the fairness of the interest rate charged are ongoing 
matters. 
The failure to reinstate the cap is an ongoing omission, as is the failure to offer a new 
fixed rate. And the fairness of the interest rate charged is a series of complaints 
about a series of acts Skipton has carried out on a monthly basis. All of these matters 
were covered by the 2018 final response. However, the final response only dealt with 
matters that had happened up to the date of that response. It did not answer a 
complaint about things that had not yet happened. 
This service has the power to consider whether Skipton ought fairly to have 
reinstated the cap, ought to have offered Mr C a new fixed rate and whether it was 
fair and lawful to charge him interest at the rate it did  but only from February 2018 
onward. 
The ombudsman explained he had seen no evidence of exceptional circumstances 
which explains why Mr C couldnt complain in time following the February 2018 
response. The reduction of the SVR in 2020 by less than the reduction in base rate had been 
brought within six months of the 2020 final response letter so was in time. 
Following my colleagues decision on jurisdiction, Skipton agreed to send its business file for 
us to consider the merits of the parts of Mr Cs complaint that had been made in time. 
One of our investigators looked into the merits of Mr Cs complaint and found: 
It was reasonable for Skipton to decline to offer Mr C a new fixed rate without a 
completion certificate. The property being unfinished and without this documentation 
would have a detrimental impact on the lenders security. 
In considering the interest applied to Mr Cs mortgage from February 2018 onward, 
she was satisfied Skipton had acted within the mortgage terms and conditions and 
that it had applied those conditions fairly. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators outcome. Ive summarised his reasons below:
The mortgage terms and conditions provided prior to the mortgage being agreed did 
not specify that a completion certificate would be required ahead of any change to 
the mortgage product. 
The cumulative impact of a widening gap between the base rate and Skiptons SVR 
is a breach of the original terms and conditions of the mortgage. The mortgage 
originally guaranteed that the SVR would be no more than 3% above base rate. This 
implies both a limit to the premium over base rate that can be charged and that on 
reaching that limit, the SVR will track the base rate. The exceptional circumstances 
used by Skipton to remove the cap should not also mean the mortgage ceased to 
track base rate. 
Skipton cannot justify why it has not reinstated the cap given that the circumstances 
that led it to remove it in the first instance can no longer be called exceptional. 
While the property does not have a completion certificate, it is habitable and is no 
different to what one might find if they visited an existing property which was 
undergoing renovation  a scenario that doesnt usually prevent a consumer from 
accessing a new mortgage product. 
The most recent valuation supports that he has a low LTV and therefore the risk 
posed to Skipton was low. 
The rate recently offered by Skipton is more costly than had it offered him a rate in 
2018 or 2020. Given Skipton has granted this new rate without a completion 
certificate, then it must have been possible for it to do so previously. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally our investigator notified the parties that the 
case would be passed to an ombudsman  providing a final deadline in which to submit any 
further comments or evidence they would like the ombudsman to consider before issuing a 
final decision. As the deadline has now expired, it is appropriate for me to issue my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: (a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr C. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Skipton previously raised an objection to our service considering Mr Cs complaint, in short, 
it thought Mr C had brought his complaint too late under the DISP rules. In response to 
Skiptons objection, my colleague issued a jurisdiction decision setting out which parts of 
Mr Cs complaint this service had the power to consider. 
I have summarised my colleagues findings above. And having assured myself of the parts of 
Mr Cs complaint I have the power to consider, I will now address those points in turn. 
Skiptons failure to reinstate the cap 
Mr C considers Skiptons original rationale for suspending the cap to no longer apply  not 
that he agreed with its original decision in any event. 
Skipton cited exceptional circumstances as the grounds for suspending the cap in 2010 
and set out the criteria which must be met before it could consider reinstating the cap. Its 
decision to suspend rather than remove the cap was a voluntary one and it chose to set out 
two key measures that must be met before the cap would be voluntarily reinstated. 
I can see that the criteria for the cap to be reinstated have now been met and Skiptons 
current SVR is now capped at 3% above base rate as promised to its customers. So, it 
appears Skipton has acted as Mr C would hope  it has recognised that exceptional 
circumstances cease to apply, and it has reinstated the cap, albeit not as soon as he 
wouldve liked. 
Mr C disagrees with Skiptons definition of exceptional circumstances and its clear he thinks 
it shouldve reinstated the cap sooner. But given Skipton could have removed the cap 
completely rather than suspend it and that it consulted with the FCA on the appropriate 
criteria for reinstating the cap, I am not persuaded Skipton has acted unfairly or in breach of 
the mortgage terms and conditions Mr C agreed to.  
I note that in his most recent submissions, Mr C is arguing that the original terms of the 
mortgage limit the SVR to 3% above base rate. And that while Skipton may have been 
entitled to suspend the cap, it was not permitted to stop tracking base rate. But I disagree 
with Mr C. His mortgage ceased to be a base rate tracker from 2008. And while Skiptons 
SVR was initially capped at 3% above base rate  this is not the same as a tracker rate. 
Instead, it means Skipton had to ensure that, prior to 2020, its SVR did not exceed 3% 
above base rate. Not that it had to track its every move. Has Skipton fairly applied interest to Mr Cs mortgage  
Mr C considers Skipton to have charged him an unfairly high rate of interest, specifically in 
2020 when it chose to only pass on a partial reduction to the SVR. Part of this complaint 
point overlaps with Mr Cs arguments surrounding Skiptons failure to reinstate the cap and 
its decision not to offer him a new rate until earlier this year. But it is a complaint point in its 
own right, so I shall address it as such. 
The mortgage  didn't  revert  to the SVR  until 2008.  I've already  explained  that I'm only 
considering  the complaint  points  raised  from the period  February  2018  onwards.  But 
my investigation  into the complaint  needs  to consider  all the circumstances  relevant  to 
the case.  That includes  the changes  made  to the SVR  over the entire  term of the 
mortgage  because  those  changes  are potentially  relevant  to the rate that applied  from 
February  2018  onwards.  
Between  2005  when  Mr C took out his mortgage,  and 2020  when  he made  this 
complaint,  Skiptons  SVR  broadly  followed  the increases  and decreases  of the Bank  of 
England.  But there  were  times  that the variations  to Skiptons  SVR  differed  either  
wholly  or in part from the changes  to base  rate. This in itself  is not a surprise  or a 
cause  for concern,  Mr Cs mortgage  ceased  to be a base  rate tracker  in 2008.  
Skipton  says  each  of these  variations  were  in line with its terms  and conditions  and it 
has provided  this service  with confidential  evidence  of its financial  position  across  this 
time.  As it is commercially  sensitive  information,  Ive decided  to exercise  the power  
within  our rules  that allow  me to receive  information  in confidence.   But in summary,  
the evidence  shows  Skiptons  decision  making  for each  of these  variations  and 
support  that those  decisions  were  justified  and balanced  the needs  of both Skipton  
and its customers,  this includes  its decision  to suspend  the cap in 2010.   
The terms  Skipton  relied  on to make  these  variations  could  have  been  clearer  in 
setting  out the relationship  between  the Societys  power  to increase  the rate and the 
mechanism  and amount  by which  it would  do so. And its noted  that the terms  do not 
require  Skipton  to give a reason  should  it chose  to reduce  the rate payable.  However,  
even  after the variations,  Skiptons  SVR  remained  broadly  in line with the SVR  rates  of 
other  lenders.  And reviewing  the evidence  provided  by Skipton  against  the relevant  
terms  and conditions,  I am not persuaded  that it has exercised  the terms  unfairly  in 
choosing  to vary its SVR.  
Im aware  Mr C feels  Skipton  should  have  passed  on the full base  rate reduction  in 
2020  and considers  its decision  not to has led to him paying  an unfairly  high rate of 
interest.  But Mr Cs mortgage  does  not track  base  rate, so Skipton  was not 
contractually  obligated  to pass  on a reduction.  And while  base  rate is a factor  in the 
costs  Skipton  incurs  to fund its mortgage  book,  it is not the only influencing  factor.  
There  are a multiple  factors  that Skipton  has to take into consideration  when  choosing  
to vary or hold its SVR  and having  considered  the evidence  supplied  by Skipton,  I am 
satisfied  its decision  to pass  on a partial  reduction  to its SVR  customers  was fair and in 
line with its terms  and conditions.  So, it follows  that I dont  uphold  this element  of 
Mr Cs complaint.  
Skiptons decision not to offer Mr C a new rate prior to 2023
Until very recently, Skipton has maintained that it was unable to offer Mr C a new rate until 
he obtained a completion certificate. However, it changed its position on this earlier this year. Mr C thinks this shows Skipton could and should have offered him a fixed rate sooner  and 
that he has suffered a financial loss as a result. 
In deciding this part of Mr Cs complaint, it is important to do so in the context of the product 
Mr C took out with Skipton and how such a product is intended to work. Put simply, Mr C 
embarked upon a project to build a house and needed a lender to fund that project. Such 
lending would be considered specialist and the risks for the lender differ from a traditional 
residential mortgage. 
A self-build mortgage operates differently as funds are released in stages as each phase of 
the build is completed and it is fair to say that it is the intention of both parties that the project 
would be completed and then the property either sold (repaying the self-build mortgage) or a 
new residential mortgage taken out to allow the consumer to reside in the completed 
property. 
Mr C says his original mortgage paperwork did not specify that he would be unable to switch 
to a new mortgage type while the project remained unfinished. I assume the suggestion here 
is that, because of this omission, Skipton is incorrect when it says its policy is not to offer 
new rates on self-build mortgages if the property lacks a completion certificate.
I do not disagree with Mr Cs observation that his mortgage terms and conditions do not 
contain this as a requirement. But the terms in question are to govern his original mortgage, 
they are not intended to set out eligibility criteria for switching to other products offered by 
Skipton. So, I would not expect to see such a condition in Mr Cs original mortgage contract. 
It is also important to note that Skipton had stopped offering this type of mortgage to new 
customers, so it did not have an alternative self-build fixed rate to offer Mr C. And as Mr Cs 
property did not have a completion certificate, he was unable to move on to a traditional 
residential mortgage with either Skipton or a new lender. 
While Mr C says the risk to Skipton was minimal as he had a low LTV, it does not change 
the fact that without a completion certificate, the value of the property, and therefore 
Skiptons security, was reduced. It is difficult to sell a property that has not reached 
completion on the open market. Any potential buyer would need to accept the risk that the 
property may not have been built to standard, was not marketable as a completed build and 
that they may struggle to obtain a mortgage on the property or insure it with standard 
buildings insurance. 
Skiptons decision to offer a rate to Mr C in 2023 despite the above was a concession, not 
something it was obligated to do either by the terms of Mr Cs mortgage agreement or the 
relevant rules and regulations that apply to mortgage lenders. So, it would not be appropriate 
for me to say that Skipton treated Mr C unfairly by not offering him a fixed rate sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Skipton 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman