DRN-3805858
The complaint
Mr and Ms K have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
declined to cover the full costs of repairs to their roof following a storm.
What happened
In early 2022, the roof of Mr and Ms Ks property was damaged during a storm.  So they 
contacted a roofer to assess the damage.  The roofer provided a report and a quote for 
£1,980 to complete repairs.  Mr and Ms K submitted a claim to RSA for the cost.  RSA 
agreed to pay £1,650 (less the £100 policy excess) to settle the claim.
Mr and Ms K instructed the roofer to deal with repairs.  But, when they started work, the 
roofer found the damage was more extensive than theyd first thought.  They produced a 
second repair quote for £9,400 plus VAT.  RSA instructed their own surveyor to verify the 
damage.  The surveyor confirmed the necessary works and RSA paid Mr and Ms K £9,400.
Scaffolding was erected to allow the repairs to be done.  Following this, the roofer again 
reported that the damage was more extensive than theyd previously thought and prepared a 
quote showing further costs of £8,080 plus VAT would be needed to complete the work.  
RSA rejected this additional element of the claim on the basis that the damage it related to 
had arisen from general deterioration/wear and tear  which were excluded from the policy.
Mr and Ms K complained to RSA about their decision.  RSA investigated, but didnt change 
their position.  So Mr and Ms K brought their complaint to our service.  And they complained 
that RSA hadnt paid the initial sum agreed in the claim, nor had they paid the VAT element 
of the £9,400 claim.
Our investigator considered it and concluded RSA didnt need to do anything different to 
resolve it.  She said it was reasonable for RSA to rely on their surveyors report to draw 
conclusions about the cause of the additional damage.
Mr and Ms K didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Ms Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
When I was first asked to make a decision, I noted Mr and Ms Ks concern that, while theyd 
received the payment of £9,400, theyd not been paid the VAT attached to that.  So I asked 
the investigator to find out why.  RSA have confirmed that they dont pay the VAT element 
until they have confirmation of completion of the works.  Mr and Ms K have confirmed work 
is complete and this information was passed to RSA.  RSA have now said theyve raised the 
VAT payment and will forward this to Mr and Ms K.  
So I wont address this any further in my decision.  That leaves the issue of RSA declining 
the claim for the additional sum of £8,080 plus VAT.  And Mr and Ms Ks concern that the 
original claim for £1,650 has never been paid.
It appears from Mr and Ms Ks response to the investigators view of their complaint that 
theyre unhappy with the claim decision RSA made.  I understand why.  But its not my role 
to decide whether that decision was right.  Rather, I have to decide whether the decision 
they made was reasonable, on the basis of the information they gathered and considered to 
determine the claim.
Ive seen that RSA accepted the first claim from Mr and Ms K on the basis of the quote from 
the roofer.  And they accepted - and paid - the second claim for £9,400, on the basis of the 
inspection by their surveyor.  
RSA confirmed in their final response to Mr and Ms K that, when their surveyor had validated 
the claim for £9,400, it included the work which had been originally notified.  Ive reviewed 
the quotes from the roofer to decide whether I think thats reasonable.
The first quote sets out the work the roofer thought was necessary at that point.  The second 
quote says they found damage to the roof to be more extensive and sets out what repairs 
the roofer then thought were necessary.  
My understanding from how the second quote is phrased is that no work had been done at 
that point.  And the purpose of the second quote was to notify RSA that more work was 
needed than had previously been advised.  Nothing Ive seen in the second quote leads me 
to conclude the second quote was for an additional £9,400 worth of work.  So I think RSAs 
explanation that the £1,650 was rolled into the £9,400 is reasonable.
The third claim for £8,080 was declined because RSA said it didnt arise from the storm, but 
from wear and tear.  Ive thought about this.
Insurance policies very rarely cover every issue which arise at a property.  Rather, they 
cover damage arising from a range of risks.  There are also a variety of exclusions, where no 
cover is provided.  So Ive looked to see whether I think RSAs conclusion that the third sum 
claimed related to an excluded cause (wear and tear) is reasonable.
RSA reached their conclusion after they reviewed the roofers third report, including 
photographs of the damage.  The review was undertaken by a project manager.  And a 
specialist technical team provided a second opinion.  The specialist team confirmed that, in 
their view the additional damage claimed for was old and not attributable to the storm.
Im not an expert.  But Ive looked at the photographs provided.  I cant see anything on them 
which leads me to conclude RSAs decision about the cause of the additional damage was 
unreasonable.  Ive seen Mr and Ms K have suggested their assessment wasnt thorough 
because it was based on the report and photographs, rather than a physical inspection.   
I cant dictate to RSA what they should do to assess the claims they receive.  Nor do I think 
its reasonable to say an assessment which doesnt include a physical inspection must be 
deficient.  Im satisfied that RSA took reasonable steps to assess the cause of the additional 
claim before rejecting it.  And that means I dont think they need to do any more to resolve 
Mr and Ms Ks complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Ms Ks claim about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman