DRN-2278745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision 
to reject a claim they made for storm damage under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to their insurer, RSA in February 2020. They noticed water 
damage to the wall on the stairs and landing. There had been two recent storms which Mr 
and Mrs S said had caused the damage to come through from the outside gable end wall.
RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor reported that the damage 
was caused by wear and tear. He said that the storm had highlighted a long term problem, 
so hadnt been the dominant cause of the damage. So RSA rejected their claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and complained. But RSA said its decision was correct. While it 
accepted that storm conditions were present, it said the surveyor noted damage to the gable 
end brickwork which had deteriorated and become porous. And he noted the mortar pointing 
had worsened over a period of time, causing water to enter the home. So RSA said it 
correctly declined the claim as the policy excluded cover for damage caused by gradual 
deterioration. It said the damage wasnt caused by a one off insurable event. 
Mr and Mrs S asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator followed our approach to storm damage complaints. We ask three 
questions:
Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
She explained that usually if the answer to all three questions is yes were likely to say the 
complaint should be upheld. But if any of the answers to the questions is no then were 
unlikely to recommend the complaint be upheld. 
The investigator thought that storm conditions had occurred . And she thought the water 
damage was consistent with being caused by storm conditions due to heavy rainfall. But she 
wasnt satisfied that the storm was the main cause of damage as the surveyor highlighted 
deterioration with the brickwork, gable end pointing and mortar. 
Ordinarily this would mean wed find it reasonable for RSA to apply its wear and tear 
exclusion  as the answer to all three questions wasnt yes. And the investigator thought 
the clam for external damage shouldnt be met for this reason. However, she thought RSA 
should meet the claim for internal damage. She thought Mr and Mrs S couldnt have known 
about the damage occurring. And so for this reason she thought RSA should meet their 
claim for internal damage and pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
The surveyor had commented that the wallpaper was crusted, suggesting it had got wet and 
dried, and gone damp again. So in his opinion, the damage to the wallpaper showed it had 
been going on for some time. 
But the investigator said between Mr and Mrs S reporting the damage and the surveyor 
attending, two weeks had passed, and a second storm had occurred. So she thought it 
plausible that the wallpaper would have had time to dry from the date Mr and Mrs S first 
made their claim. 
She recommended RSA meet the claim for internal damage. And for the inconvenience 
caused, she thought it should pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation. 
Both parties disagreed with the investigators view.
RSA said it doesnt agree that the internal damage is consistent with being caused by a 
storm. It said there was only 72.8mm of rainfall over the 7 day period prior to the loss. This 
doesnt constitute a storm, so it isnt able to consider the claim under the storm peril. 
Mr S says theyve lived there for over 24 years and never had ingress of water before. He 
said theyve never made a claim before. If the issue was to do with the porosity of the brick, 
he believes the damage would be throughout the house and not just to the gable end wall. 
He believes the impact of both storms was sufficient to cause additional erosion causing 
water ingression to occur. 
Mr S believes that the reliance on the three questions is so pertinent that RSA should 
include them as a significant exclusion in the policy document  but noted its definition of a 
storm under the policy. 
He said both storms brought torrential rain and hail which blasted their gable end wall. He is 
very upset that RSA seem to be relying on a description of the storm as a dry storm which 
he feels is an excuse to reject their claim. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2020. While I agreed with Mr and Mrs S that 
storm conditions had existed at the time of the event, I didnt think storm was the dominant 
cause of damage based on the evidence available. So I thought RSA had acted reasonably 
in declining the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree. Hes provided some further information to support his view. Ive addressed 
the salient points in my findings. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were two named storms which I understand both occurred before Mr S made a claim 
to RSA. The first storm occurred between 2 and 10 February 2020. The second storm 
occurred between 15 and 17 February 2020. Mr S reported the water damage to RSA on 18 
February 2020, so just after the second storm. Mr S has provided further information to support his view that storm conditions existed. But 
in my provisional decision I said I was satisfied that the winds were strong enough to say 
that storm conditions existed. 
But this isnt enough to say that because storm conditions occurred, a claim for damage 
caused by a storm is therefore always valid. In this case, even if I disagreed with RSA that 
the rainfall wasnt sufficient to constitute storm conditions, I dont think RSAs decision to 
reject the claim was unreasonable. 
The surveyor who inspected the damage to Mr and Mrs Ss home reported with photos that 
there were no signs of damage or disturbance to the gable end wall outside which he would 
attribute to the recent storm conditions. He viewed both Mr and Mrs Ss external wall and 
neighbours too. He reported that the breakdown of the brickwork was natural and visible in 
the neighbouring properties. He said the mortar joints and pointing required renewal and 
maintenance as it had failed. 
The surveyor believed the internal damage wasnt the result of a single identifiable storm 
incident. He reported that the damage he inspected was consistent with rainwater ingress 
over a prolonged period of time. 
The surveyor provided photos of the wallpaper which showed patches of damp where it had 
got wet and dried and crusted. The surveyors opinion was that the water ingress had been 
occurring gradually over time and the storm conditions merely highlighted an ongoing 
gradual deterioration. As RSA doesnt provide cover for events caused by gradual wear and 
tear, I think RSA acted reasonably in relying on the professional opinion of the surveyor. 
I can assure Mr S that Ive considered all of the information hes provided, both before and 
after my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained that where a customer 
disagrees with a surveyors report, we think its reasonable for the insurer to consider any 
report a customer can provide of equal weight. This means that the customer has the 
opportunity to dispute the findings of the surveyor and provide evidence to support their 
claim. And if their report contradicts the findings of the surveyors report, we would expect 
the insurer to reconsider the claim and pay the costs of the report. 
I understand that Mr S doesnt agree with the surveyors findings. He says his analytical 
report previously provided offers equal weight. But I cant agree. I havent seen evidence of 
equal weight to the professional opinion of the surveyor  to contradict his findings. So there 
isnt enough for me to say that RSAs decision to rely on that opinion was unreasonable.
Its our approach to ask the three questions in relation to claims about storm conditions in 
order for us to decide if an insurer has been fair and reasonable. I think RSA was clear 
enough in defining storm under the policy. It says:
A storm will involve very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural damage 
to homes within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy 
snow. Damage caused by normal weather conditions commonly experienced in the 
UK is often the result of wear and tear or lack of maintenance and isnt covered.
Insurance policies are designed to provide insurance for specific insured perils. Anything 
outside of these perils such as wear and tear are uninsured losses.
I realise Mr and Mrs S are very disappointed with my view. But I dont think RSAs decision 
to reject their claim for storm damage was unreasonable. So Im not upholding their 
complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman