DRN-3938512
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which Ill refer to as T, complain about delays by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC in establishing its new account, resulting in missed investment opportunities.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr T, one of the trustees of T, contacted Barclays about setting up a bank 
account for T. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr T had to cancel a couple of appointments 
and the process was delayed. However, on 1 July 2020, Mr T finally attended the branch to 
begin the process. Mr T was informed that the process would take up to 10 working days. 
Barclays did open the account within this timescale but did not notify Mr T that the account 
was open until 29 July. Mr T complained about the delay, for which Barclays apologised and 
paid T £100.
At the end of August, Mr T received an account statement and realised that the name on the 
account was incorrect. He instructed Barclays to change it. Barclays did so, confirming the 
changes to Mr T on 1 September. On 22 September, Mr T transferred funds into Ts 
account.
In February 2021, Mr T complained to Barclays about the delays in opening the account. He 
said that the delays had caused T to miss out on an investment opportunity in June 2020, 
which would have earned T a substantial amount. Barclays said that, given Mr T had 
cancelled the appointments in March 2020 and had not attended a branch to open the 
account until the start of July, Barclays could not be held responsible for T missing 
investment opportunities in June. 
Not content with this response, the trustees of T brought their complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator considered the complaint but said that, in his view, Barclays had already taken 
appropriate action to compensate T for its mistake in July 2020, and could not be held 
responsible for any missed investment opportunity in June 2020. So he said Barclays need 
take no further action.
Mr T didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that delays by Barclays in setting up Ts account caused T to miss out on an 
investment opportunity in June 2020.
It is clear that Mr T sought to open an account for T in March 2020. However, the Covid-19 
pandemic caused him to cancel the initial appointments which he had booked with Barclays, 
and it wasnt until mid-June 2020 that he contacted Barclays again to set up a new 
appointment. I cannot see that Barclays caused any delay in this period as it was Mr T who 
cancelled the appointments and determined when he was ready to meet in branch with 
Barclays. Following his request in mid-June, an appointment was booked for 1 July, which 
appears reasonable.
Barclays mistake was that, although the account was opened on 15 July, meeting its 
commitment of doing so in 10 working days, it did not notify Mr T until 29 July. This two-week 
delay caused Mr T some inconvenience as he phoned in twice to ask Barclays what was 
happening. However, Barclays has apologised for its mistake and the inconvenience 
caused, and paid T £100 in compensation. I believe this is consistent with the compensation 
I would typically award for inconvenience in such circumstances, so I do not require Barclays 
to take any further action for this.
Mr T later pointed out that the account name also needed changing, but Barclays responded 
quickly to this request and put through the required changes, so I do not believe any further 
action is required for this either.
Mr T has said that, in addition to the inconvenience caused by the delays in establishing Ts 
account, Barclays mistakes caused T to miss out on an investment opportunity in June 
2020, which would have earned it a substantial amount. However, T has not provided any 
evidence to demonstrate what opportunity it missed. Moreover, as I do not believe Barclays 
can be held responsible for any of the delays in opening Ts account between March and 
July, I cannot hold it responsible for T missing an investment opportunity in June. Barclays 
mistake caused a delay in T being notified that its account was open in July 2020, but I have 
not seen that this caused T any financial loss.
For these reasons, I believe that Barclays has already compensated T fairly for its mistake 
and need take no further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman