DRN-3279294
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (which Ill refer to as Alphera) 
provided him with a car which was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr R entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement with Alphera. 
The car had been first registered in April 2015 and had a cash price of nearly £24,000.
In or around April 2020 Mr R says that he noticed that the cars paintwork was peeling. He 
complained to Alphera, which in turn contacted the dealership which had supplied the car. It 
acknowledged that the car had previously been resprayed but that the work had not been 
done to a satisfactory standard. The dealership told Alphera that it would carry out remedial 
work at no cost to Mr R.
Mr R was however unable to resolve the issue and referred the matter to this service. 
Initially, there was a question as to whether the complaint had been referred to the service 
outside the relevant time limits. An ombudsman reviewed that point. He concluded that the 
service did after all have power to consider the merits of the case and referred the case back 
to the investigator for consideration of the merits.
On considering the merits of the case, the investigator thought that the dealerships offer to 
repair the paint damage was a fair resolution in the circumstances. He felt however that 
Alphera had not handled things as well as it should have done and recommended that it pay 
Mr R £100 in recognition of that.
Alphera replied to say that it no longer had a relationship with the dealership. It suggested 
therefore that Mr R obtain a quote for the reported damage and said that it would refund the 
cost of repair and pay the additional £100 recommended by the investigator. It stressed that 
it would not pay for a full respray of the car.
Mr R did not accept the investigators view or Alpheras offer. For that reason, he did not 
provide a quote for the repairs. He thought a fair resolution would be a payment of around 
£1,800  or £100 for each month he had the car.
Because no resolution could be agreed, the case was passed to me for consideration.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. I noted that there was no 
real dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality, as it should have been. I noted that 
Alphera had said that it no longer had a relationship with the dealership, but that it had 
offered to refund the costs of respraying the affected areas of the car. I thought that offer 
was reasonable but that Alphera ought to make a payment to Mr R against a reasonable 
estimate of the cost of repairs, rather than reimbursing him after he had made payment. I 
invited Mr R to provide an estimate. 
I also thought that the investigators recommendation of an additional £100 was a little low 
and suggested £250 instead. 
Mr R provided two estimates, the second an updated one after he says that further damage 
came to light. The most up to date estimate of the costs of repairs was for £3,540.89. The 
investigator sought Alpheras comments. It said that it did not agree that it should pay the 
sum in the quote because Mr R bought a used car and was already benefiting from my 
decision. I have therefore reviewed the case afresh.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is, as I say, no dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality. The dealership 
acknowledged that it had been resprayed but that the work had not been completed to a 
satisfactory standard. That is, the issues with the paintwork were not simply down to the 
cars age; they were the result of unsatisfactory work having been carried out. Alphera is 
therefore under a duty to put that right. I indicated in my provisional decision that it should do 
that by meeting the costs of rectification work. 
Alphera has not however taken the steps I recommended in my provisional decision. It is not 
therefore correct of it to say that Mr R is benefiting from that decision. Mr R currently has a 
car which is not of the standard it should be. The reason for that is that Alphera did not 
supply a car which was of the appropriate standard and neither it nor the dealership has 
done anything practical to rectify that. 
I have no reason to think that the estimate that Mr R has provided is inflated or unrealistic. 
He has suggested that a complete respray is appropriate, because further defects may come 
to light in the future. I understand his point here, but I do not think it would be fair to require 
Alphera to compensate him for losses which he might or might not incur in the future  
especially given the time he has now had the car. 
Putting things right
As I have indicated, I have no reason to think that the estimate of the cost of rectification 
work is inflated. It follows that Alphera should meet that cost.  
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought Alphera should consider arranging a 
courtesy car or meeting Mr Rs additional travel costs while any work is being done. I remain 
of that view, although I am not making a formal award requiring it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Rs complaint in full, BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited should pay Mr R:
£3,540.89 to cover the costs of repairs; and 
£250 in recognition of the distress Mr R has suffered and the inconvenience to which he 
has been put.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman