DRN-2586082
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his motorbike insurance policy following the theft of his bike.
   
What happened
I looked at the details of this complaint previously and provided my provisional decision in 
January 2021 as follows;
Mr C made a claim under his motorbike insurance policy after his bike was stolen. Mr C 
advertised his bike for sale and a potential buyer attended his property and stole his 
motorbike. Mr C reported the theft to the police and his insurer. But Advantage turned down 
the claim as it said Mr C had left his keys in the bike which was excluded under the policy 
terms and conditions.
As Mr C wasnt happy about this he complained to Advantage. But it maintained its position. 
And it went onto say that Mr C had been deceived by the buyer as well which also wasnt 
covered by the policy. So Mr C complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold the complaint. Although he 
sympathised with Mr C he didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. He was satisfied 
that Mr C had left the keys in the motorbike and that he was deceived by the buyer and so 
thought the decline of the claim was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and said the clauses werent clear and that they were 
being interpreted in Advantages favour. So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im presently minded to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
It is clear Advantage turned down Mr Cs claim as he left the keys in the bikes ignition and it 
wrote out to Mr C explaining this after its initial investigation. And I note that in its latest 
representations following questions I asked about its investigation it reiterated that it felt Mr 
C had left their vehicle with the keys in and therefore running, unattended and suggested 
that the gate to the property wasnt electric.
While I can understand Advantages position I dont think Mr C left the bike unattended. I say 
this as although Mr C left his key on the bike Im satisfied he was in attendance. He had 
been on a test drive, keeping the bike in his control, until he jumped off in order to close his 
electric gate when he got back home. Advantage seems to question whether the gate was 
electric, but Ive asked Mr C to send various photographs of the scene and Im satisfied the 
gate was electric. Im also satisfied that the photographs show that Mr C was in attendance 
and only ever a few feet from his bike so I dont think it would be fair for Advantage to rely on 
this clause in turning down the claim. And as Ive already noted this was the reason 
Advantage turned down the claim initially.
At a later stage Advantage also said it thought hed been deceived which wasnt covered 
under the policy as well. So I can understand why Mr C became suspicious of Advantage 
and why he felt it seemed to be moving the goal posts as it didnt turn down the claim for this 
reason initially.
Again, while I can understand Advantages position I dont think Mr C handed over full 
control of the motorbike at the time of the theft. On the day in question the thief contacted Mr 
C and arranged to see the bike. When the thief attended he said that hed parked his own 
motorbike nearby as he couldnt find the address. Ive watched and listened to the CCTV 
from the time the thief attended (from the doorbell footage) and there is a clear conversation 
between the thief and Mr Cs partner, who opened the electric gates for Mr C and the thief 
when they went on a test drive of the bike, in which the difficulty of finding the address and 
house number is discussed. And I can understand why Mr C was persuaded by the thief and 
their explanation.
But Mr C kept control of the bike to the extent that he went on the test drive with the thief and 
tried to keep control of the bike at all times. Mr Cs partner pressed for the electric gates to 
open so that Mr C and the thief could go on a test ride. But Mr C didnt allow the thief to take 
the bike on their own or hand over control.
The thief cut the test ride short and so when they returned Mr Cs partner wasnt ready to 
close the electric gates behind them. This meant Mr C had to get off the bike when he 
returned to his property in order to close the electric gate and keep control of the situation. 
Mr C has provided a number of photos that clearly show the layout of his property. From 
these Im satisfied that Mr C was always in close proximity to his bike and didnt hand over 
physical control. Mr C says he ensured the ignition was turned off but while Mr C moved to 
close the nearby electric gates, the thief quickly hit the push start button and rode off.
Given all of this, I dont think it would be fair for Advantage to turn down Mr Cs claim. I say 
this as he was always very close so it wouldnt be fair to say that he left the key in the bike 
unattended and he didnt hand over control of his motorbike. As Advantage knows this 
service thinks that if customers take reasonable steps and yet a thief takes advantage of a 
small window of opportunity to take a vehicle we feel it would be harsh to turn down the 
claim. And it is clear that Mr C took reasonable steps not to give the thief the opportunity to 
steal his bike as he was in close proximity at all times and didnt voluntarily hand over control 
of his bike.
Replies
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr C said that he was grateful for the fresh 
review of the case and said that he didnt have anything further to add. He just said again 
that he thought hed took all the precautions he could while trying to sell his bike. 
While Advantage said it disagreed. It said that Mr C couldve taken reasonable steps not to 
give the thief the opportunity to steal his bike. As he left the keys in the ignition of his bike 
and got off the bike Rather than asking the passenger of the bike to get off and deal with the 
bike or both get off and push the bike into the drive. So it didnt feel that Mr C had taken 
reasonable action to minimise the chances of the bike being stolen and if hed removed the 
keys from the bike then the thief wouldve had to physically remove the keys from him to 
steal the bike. 
Therefore, Advantage didnt feel that it should cover the claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having considered all of the further comments and original evidence again I still think 
the complaint should be upheld. 
I dont propose to go over the detail of this complaint again as Ive already considered all of 
the issues above. However, I will comment on Advantages further representations.
Although I can understand Advantages position I dont think he relinquished full control of 
the bike and I think hed taken reasonable steps to try and protect his property. I know 
Advantage has said that that he couldve ensured that the potential buyer was off the bike 
before he pushed it onto his drive. But Mr C has explained that he was already on his drive 
and was simply getting off the bike, which he ensured was turned off, to press the button to 
close his electronic gate and make everything completely secure. 
I do accept that in an ideal world he wouldve removed the keys from the bike but overall I 
think Mr C did enough. And as Ive already explained he didnt leave his bike unattended as 
he was close by at all times to the extent that he went on the test drive with the thief and 
tried to keep control of the bike at all times. He was in close proximity when the thief stole 
the bike and I dont expect him to risk his life trying to stop the thief when he took his brief 
window of opportunity to steal the bike. 
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is 
for Advantage to pay Mr Cs claim. And it should add interest in line with our usual approach 
for the time hes been without the money owed.
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Cs claim and to pay him 8% simple interest from 
the date of claim until the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman