DRN-2416444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland Plc are closing their joint savings account 
unfairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a joint savings account with Bank of Scotland. They are unhappy 
because their account is being closed after Mr S breached a rule previously put in place by 
his local branch, of not visiting them in person.
 
Mr S says he knew he was banned from that branch but on the day in question, he was out 
shopping and needed some cash. He says this branch was the closest to him and because 
he felt it should be straightforward to get an answer, he waited in a queue outside. He says 
that a member of staff approached him to say that he couldnt use this branch. 
Mr S says that he felt embarrassed as other customers could hear the conversation about 
why he wasnt allowed in the branch, taking place. He says he was also advised to travel to 
another branch some miles away, and not to go to closer branches as there may be staff 
members that recognise him, and therefore may refuse to serve him. 
Mr and Mrs S would like the account to stay open as they cannot get a passbook account 
with another bank at the same rate. They feel its also unfair on Mrs S as she also uses the 
account and hasnt been a part of any previous complaints.
 
Bank of Scotland explained that they checked with the branch staff who said that as Mr S 
wasnt allowed into the branch, any conversation would have needed to take place outside. 
They also said that the alternative branches offered to Mr S were within a reasonable 
distance. Mr S maintains that Bank of Scotland have prevented him from using other 
branches, however Bank of Scotland have confirmed that the ban related to this particular 
branch only.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and was of the opinion that Bank of Scotland had 
acted reasonably in their decision to close Mr and Mrs Ss account. She explained that they 
have the right to close an account if they feel it is necessary. She understood Mr and Mrs Ss 
concerns about Mrs S not being able to access the account from that branch and she asked 
Bank of Scotland whether they would be willing to remove only Mr S, but they declined. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this, so have asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that we have looked into previous complaints for Mr and Mrs S in the past, so I will 
only be commenting on the account closure issue in this decision.
 
Having looked into everything, Im not able to know exactly what was discussed on the day 
Mr S visited his local branch. Because of this, I have to base my decision on the evidence 
available to me as well as considering what most likely took place. As part of my review, Ive 
considered what Mr and Mrs S said happened on the day in question, and what the branch 
staffs recollections are too.
Mr S knew he was banned from the branch but chose to go there anyway. Ill not go into the 
reasons for the ban in this decision, as the fact a ban was in place isnt in dispute. I 
understand that Mr S wanted to ask if he could make a withdrawal, however he knew he 
wasnt allowed to visit that particular branch. I also cant see anything to suggest the visit 
and the need for cash was urgent in any way.
 
When Mr S arrived at the branch, a member of staff spoke with him outside. I cant say the 
staff member did anything wrong in taking these steps because they were following through 
with an arrangement which the bank had previously imposed. The notes from Bank of 
Scotland explain the conversation between them was a polite one. I cant see anything to 
suggest that anything untoward was said by either party.
 
I understand that Mr S may have been embarrassed by being asked to leave the branch and 
by having other customers overhear his conversation with the staff member, and I empathise 
with him for this. But in the circumstances, I cant see what else the staff member could have 
done, so consider their response was reasonable.
 
Regarding the closure of the account, a businesses can if they feel its necessary, decide to 
withdraw banking facilities if a customer has breached the terms and conditions of its 
account, or the operation of the account. In this case, Bank of Scotland feel their relationship 
with Mr S has broken down and so they have decided to close the savings account. 
Section 18.3 of the account terms and conditions state:
Unless your account is for a fixed term, we may close your account by giving you
reasonable written notice. Normally the notice will be at least 30 days. But if there
are exceptional circumstances, for example there is evidence of fraud, we can close
your account immediately. We will tell you as soon as possible if we do this.
I can see Bank of Scotland wrote to both Mr and Mrs S explaining they would be closing 
their account in one months time. As they have given the required notice under the terms of 
the account, I cant say theyve done anything wrong.
 
Bank of Scotland have also said the account held is a savings product, not overly active and 
does not indicate that its Mr Ss main banking account for day to day living. Because of this, 
the closure of this account may cause temporary inconvenience but should not provide any 
hardship, as Mr S likely has banking arrangements elsewhere.
This suggests to me that the closure of this account shouldnt cause any undue financial 
hardship as its a savings account used infrequently, rather than a current account for 
example.I understand why Bank of Scotlands decision may seem unfair for Mrs S, as she hasnt 
been a part of the previous complaint issues. I can see our investigator asked whether Bank 
of Scotland would be willing to keep the account open in her name only, however they have 
decided to close the account altogether, and this isnt something Im able to change. 
Bank of Scotland have kept the account open whilst the complaint has been with our service. 
As Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, the account will now be closed in line with 
the notice previously provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman