DRN-3442766
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined to refund £3,600 which he lost 
as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that in October 2021, Mr A was 
tricked into sending funds in the belief he was sending them to secure a rental property he 
had organised to look around. 
Mr A was looking to rent a property with his cousins on a large and well-known letting 
website which connects private landlords with tenants. His cousin found a property that 
appeared to meet their requirements, and showed Mr A the advert. Mr As cousin then 
liaised with the landlord about it over the phone and a messaging application. Believing 
things to be genuine, and believing that the website they were using offered protections if 
things went wrong, they agreed to sign a contract and pay a holding deposit and one month 
rent to secure the property, totalling £3,600. Mr A made this payment via his online banking 
on his Monzo application. 
The scam came to light when they organised to view the property and were never able to 
view it, and the person they were speaking to cut off all contact with them. Mr A raised the 
matter with Monzo. Monzo investigated Mr As complaint and issued its final response in 
January 2022, not upholding his complaint. In summary, they did not accept liability as they 
did not think Mr A had done enough to check he was dealing with a legitimate party who had 
the rights to rent the property out. They contacted the receiving account, who returned the 
remaining balance of the receiving account which was £13.35 to Mr As account. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld, and that Monzo should refund the money that Mr A had lost, along with interest. In 
summary, our investigator didnt consider that Mr A had ignored any genuinely impactful  
warnings and they thought this was a sophisticated scam and very believable to Mr A, so he 
had a reasonable basis for believing that he was making a payment to secure a property.  
Monzo did not agree with our investigators opinion on Mr As complaint and asked them to 
reconsider. In summary, they said:
Whilst the warning they gave was not specific to the scam Mr A fell for, the 
warning was shown because Mr A selected that he was making a payment to a 
safe account. This meant Monzo could not give Mr A an effective warning. But 
the warning was not the reason that Mr As claim was declined. It was because 
he did not perform adequate checks to ensure he was sending the funds to a 
legitimate payee, and for legitimate purposes. 
Mr As cousin took the conversation about the property away from the website 
and onto the phone and messaging application. This meant that the protection 
and support offered by the website normally was not available to Mr As payment. 
Monzo provided links to parts of the website that show how the process is 
supposed to work, which they say Mr A or his cousin did not follow, which says 
that users should:
- view the property before signing contracts or making payments; 
- pay deposits via card payment through their website; 
- sign contracts through the website directly. 
He took no steps to verify the payments himself  he had seen the advert but 
otherwise he relied fully on his cousin. Whilst they were due to share the 
property, Monzo did not think it was reasonable for Mr A to have done no checks 
himself.  
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of their customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mr A lost in line with the provisions of the 
CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr 
A from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
There is no dispute here that Mr A was tricked into making the payment. But this is not 
enough, in and of itself, for Mr A to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Mr A too. 
The CRM Code 
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances, but has agreed to apply its 
principles. Monzo say exceptions to reimbursement apply in this case. It says that Mr A 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was legitimate or 
was providing a legitimate service.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. Did Mr A ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment being made? 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum any effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams. In 
short  the warning needs to be capable of countering the typical features of the generic 
scam type identified during the payment journey. 
When making the payment, Mr A was asked What is this payment for?. Mr A selected the 
option to say he was sending the payment to a safe account rather than paying for goods 
or services or something else. Hes not been clear what made him pick this one. As Monzo 
have pointed out, this meant that the payment journey he took and the warning he was given 
were not linked to making payments of the kind he was making. Monzo have said that the 
warning they gave is not the reason that they are declining to refund Mr As losses  which I 
take to mean that they accept that the warning they gave was not effective. For 
completeness, I have considered whether I agree. The warning in question said the 
following: 
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely it is a scam
Remember: 
Monzo will never call you without arranging by email or in-app chat first
Other banks will never ask you to move money out of your Monzo account
Check with your bank
I dont consider this to constitute an effective warning because: 
There does not appear to have been any mention in the warning of the 
consequences of proceeding with the payment such as saying that the funds might 
not be recoverable and
The warning is not specific to the type of scam Mr A fell victim to  he was not 
contacted by someone pretending to be from Monzo or any other bank asking him to 
move money; and
It does not mention any of the hallmarks of the kind of scam Mr A was falling victim to 
including making payments towards a property, or any similar or related scam and so 
by extension there was no clear guidance that would have allowed Mr A to protect 
himself from the type of scam he was falling victim to.
I dont underestimate the challenge Monzo faces in providing warnings strong enough to 
break the spell in a sophisticated scam such as this. But the difficulty of meeting that 
challenge does not mean the warnings given by Monzo were sufficient or contained enough 
clarity to meet the minimum requirements in the CRM code. Overall, I am not satisfied that 
the warnings met the requisite criteria here. I dont consider the warnings given were 
effective warnings as defined within the CRM code. It follows that Monzo has not established 
it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement relating to Mr A ignoring an effective 
warning. 
Did Mrs A have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr A had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the transaction was genuine. But I am not persuaded that Mr A failed 
to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code and I dont consider that Mr A lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief. I say this because: 
Mr As cousin found the advert listed on a well-known and reputable website. Further, 
to add a property to this website the owner/landlord needs to upload evidence they 
have the right to rent out the property. This includes land registry title documentation, 
insurance certificate, signed letter from a solicitor from completion or confirming 
ownership of the property, and a mortgage letter. So, it is reasonable that Mr A and 
his cousin believed they were dealing with a legitimate landlord, and did not ask to 
see any documentation proving ownership; 
Monzo have argued that it was unreasonable for Mr A to make a payment of this size 
without doing any independent checks on the property or landlord  but instead 
relying on what his cousin had said and done. But I do not believe that it is unusual or 
unreasonable that when renting a house share, one member of the group will be 
entrusted to do more of the checks and correspondence. Further, Mr A was not 
dealing with a stranger here  it was his cousin. So I think it was reasonable for him 
to trust that his cousin had done sufficient checks; 
The scammers created an official looking tenancy agreement, which would have 
reassured Mr A that they were dealing with a legitimate landlord. It was styled to look 
like a genuine rental agreement through the website. There was nothing in it that 
should have given him cause for concern that he was dealing with someone 
illegitimate. 
Mr A thought the payment was going to an agent, rather than directly to the 
landlords and so would have thought it was protected and legitimate.
Monzo have pointed to guidance on the website that says you should see the 
property first, and make deposit payments by card payment on their website. But as 
Mr A didnt see this, and this seems reasonable given that it does not appear on the 
property page itself bur rather on another part of the website. And I do appreciate 
one should see a property before renting it out, but unfortunately competition for 
rental properties can be high and so it is not unheard of that people will rent 
properties without seeing them first. 
Monzo said that Mr A didnt query which agency the agent was from when they 
contacted him. But Mr A had thought he was speaking with the landlords and they 
had said the agent would be in touch, so it was not as if the agent got in touch totally 
out of the blue. So I do not see any reason for him being concerned about the agent, 
when he thought he was dealing with legitimate landlords. 
On balance, I am satisfied that when considering all of the circumstances, Mr As decision to 
make the payments was not unreasonable. I believe that Mr A believed he was dealing with 
a legitimate landlord and he wanted to ensure he secured the accommodation. Mr A was not 
alive to the possibility he was dealing with a fraudster and this is another reason why I dont 
think he acted unreasonably by engaging with the fraudster, via his cousin, and making the 
payment. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, I am not satisfied Monzo has been able to establish that 
when Mr A sent the payments he did so without a reasonable basis for belief. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as I 
have explained, I am satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think it is fair that Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
Refund the £3,600 lost as the result of the scam, deducting the £13.35 that was returned from the receiving bank account; and 
Pay 8% simple interest from the date they declined to refund Mr A under the CRM 
Code until the date of the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Monzo 
Bank Ltd and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman