DRN-2279343
The complaint
 Mrs M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit (FCE).
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs M. The car 
here was brand new so I would not think a reasonable person would expect it to have any 
faults.
Mrs M collected her car on 22 October 2019. She reported a number of issues with the car 
to the dealership on 31 October 2019, but these could not be repaired until 19 November 
2019. During that repair she was told the front speakers could not be fixed until a software 
update became available. This meant she could not use the satellite navigation or her phone 
with the car. 
Ive seen an email Mrs M sent to FCE on 21 November 2019. In that email she explained the 
situation and she told FCE that shed informed the dealership she wanted to reject the car.
I think its clear Mrs M wanted to reject the vehicle rather than wait for further repairs. The 
business didnt respond to her request and its not therefore fair to say that she accepted the 
repairs that were subsequently provided. It seems she was given no other option. 
The relevant legislation gives a consumer a short term right reject goods without giving the 
merchant an opportunity to repair them. That short term right is applicable if there is a 
demonstrable fault and if the consumer requests rejection within 30 days after having taken 
receipt of the goods.
The 30 days run from when the consumer takes possession, which in this case was on 22 
October 2019. Legislation says that the clock stops when a consumer reports the issue. So 
here, the clock stopped on 31 October 2019 and Mrs M reported the issue as soon as she 
was told of the delay she would face getting the speakers repaired. So, she asked to reject 
the car within the 30-day period because there was a demonstrable fault with it.
FCE should therefore have allowed her to reject the car at that point. But Mrs M has had to 
keep the car until now in order to get a resolution to her complaint. 
Putting things right
Whilst Mrs M wants to reject the car she is upset with our investigators recommendation that 
she is allowed to do so. Thats because she says the redress doesnt consider the fact that 
she will no longer qualify for the manufacturers Privilege discount she benefitted from 
when the finance was established. 
Ive thought about that, but Im not persuaded to tell FCE to do anything about the Privilege 
discounts. 
FCE financed the balance after the privilege discount had been applied. I dont think it would 
be fair for them honour or refund a discount scheme that Mrs M may, or may not, still have 
access to.  
The redress Im suggesting asks FCE to cancel the finance agreement but its only fair for 
Mrs M to pay for the use shes had from the car, which, as I understand it, has been working 
well since the end of January.
Im therefore asking FCE to cancel the finance agreement and refund the deposit paid which 
in this instance is the difference between the balance that remained on the previous 
agreement and the price paid for the part exchange vehicle (the part settlement). They 
should add interest to that refund as Mrs M has been deprived of that money.
Mrs M didnt have the speakers fixed until the end of January 2020. So, I think it would be 
fair for FCE to refund 10% of the finance instalments she paid up to the end of January 
2020, in respect of her loss of use and enjoyment. Im not asking them to refund any further 
instalments as I think its clear the car has been working well since then.
They should also refund any hire costs Mrs M incurred when the car was being repaired but 
Mrs M will need to provide copies of the invoices to FCE.
Its clear that Mrs M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to return the car to 
the garage and to chase repairs that werent readily available. Shes also had to refer the 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In the 
circumstances I think it would be fair for FCE to provide £250 compensation. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs M;
refund the part settlement and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund 10% of all finance instalments paid up to the end of January 2020;
refund hire car receipts if provided by Mrs M for the period during which the car was 
being repaired;
pay Mrs M £250 to compensate her the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman