DRN-3236194
The complaint
 This complaint is about a Woolwich-branded mortgage Mrs and Mr H used to hold with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. The mortgage ended in 2016, but they still owed Barclays around 
£95,000 on a secured overdraft. The overdraft was then put on a repayment plan, which 
Mrs and Mr H mostly adhered to. Barclays cancelled the plan in 2019 after Mrs and Mr H 
missed a monthly instalment for the second time. Rather than offer a new plan, Barclays 
began possession proceedings, which were paused during the pandemic. Before the legal 
action could be resumed, Mrs and Mr H obtained a lifetime equity release mortgage to repay 
the overdraft, but believe Barclays treated them unfairly.
 
What happened
  By way of a provisional decision dated 7 December 2021, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from 
the provisional decision.
The history and background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (rounding figures where 
necessary) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr H missed a payment in 2017, Barclays agreed a new plan and Mrs and Mr H 
kept to it for almost two years, during which the outstanding balance was reduced to around 
half its original size. But in the summer of 2019, Mr H had a car accident which prevented 
him working for a time. They missed another instalment, and this time Barclays declined to 
set a new plan. It began legal action for possession of Mrs and Mr Hs home, which was held 
in abeyance during the pandemic. In the meantime, Mrs and Mr H obtained an equity 
release mortgage and paid the remaining debt in full.
Their complaint, in summary, is that Barclays provided the overdraft irresponsibly at the 
outset, forced them into an unaffordable payment plan in 2016, and then unfairly started 
possession action after they missed a payment for the second time in 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld so Mrs and Mr H have asked for 
it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. I also 
have to ensure I dont include any information that might identify Mrs and Mr H when my 
decision is published.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive reached the following conclusions. 
I dont find that Barclays acted irresponsibly simply because it made the overdraft facility 
available for Mrs and Mr H to use. Unless and until Mrs and Mr H made use of it, it was just 
a facility; it only became a debt when they did make use of it. No one forced Mrs and Mr H to 
make use of the facility; Im satisfied they did so of their own volition, and its reasonable to 
conclude they accrued a benefit from spending the money they borrowed.
I think its reasonable to say Mrs and Mr H should have understood that the overdraft would 
need to be repaid when the mortgage ended. That was an inherent part of the contract at the 
outset. Also, even if Mrs and Mr H didnt assimilate that when they took the mortgage out, 
the same message will have been reinforced by the information included in the account 
statements that were issued at regular intervals. 
Mrs and Mr H say they understood that a new arrangement would be put in place for the 
overdraft after the mortgage ended in 2016. Thats exactly what did happen; Barclays asked 
Mrs and Mr H for an income and expenditure analysis, and on the basis of what they told it, 
agreed a payment plan to repay the overdraft over several years. I appreciate why 
Mrs and Mr H believe the payment plan was excessively strict, but I think it was fairly 
assessed at the time.
When Mrs and Mr H missed a payment in 2017, Barclays agreed to reset the payment plan. 
I think that was an appropriate response, in the reasonable expectation that this was a one-
off deserving of flexibility. On first glance, I can understand why Barclays was less 
accommodating when it happened for a second time in 2019. After all, the starting point in 
this complaint is that this a debt that was meant to have been repaid in 2016. But everything 
has a context, and even though the missed payment in 2019 was a second offence, I think 
Barclays reaction to it was a little heavy-handed.
It was an external event outside Mrs and Mr Hs control that caused the missed payment, 
and they proactively contacted Barclays when it happened rather than wait for them  to 
contact them. It seems to me that all times, Mrs and Mr H were doing (or trying to do) the 
right thing in adversity. That should have earned them a little more consideration than they 
received.
Even if Barclays didnt want to continue with a payment plan, I think it would have been 
kinder, and fairer, to explain why but give Mrs and Mr H a grace period (say six months) to 
find alternative finance rather than force the issue by beginning possession proceedings. 
Had it done that, Mrs and Mr H would most likely still have ended up taking out the equity 
release mortgage, but in a more orderly fashion and under less stress. They would also not 
have been charged the litigation fees. Overall, starting legal action and incurring those costs 
wasnt fair treatment.
The parties were given until 21 December 2021 to respond to the provisional decision. 
Mrs and Mr H accepted my provisional decision; Barclays asked for an extension of time until 29 December, which was granted. It has since asked for a further extension, this time 
until 13 January 2022.
After careful consideration, I have declined this second request. I appreciate that there has 
been a holiday period, and that the business may be suffering from staff shortages. But the 
reason it has given is that it wishes to check with its litigation department regarding contact it 
had with Mrs and Mr H during the relevant period. In other words, Barclays is asking for 
more time to disclose evidence that it cant be sure exists, and if it does, should have been 
disclosed when our investigation first started and we requested Barclays to submit its case. 
That was on 2 July 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done 
so, I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to: 
Refund all of the fees and charges it debited to Mrs and Mr Hs mortgage account in 
connection with the possession action that started in 2019; 
pay Mrs and Mr H interest at 8% simple* on the refunded amounts, from the dates each 
fee was applied to the eventual date of settlement; and
pay Mrs and Mr H £250 compensation for unnecessary stress.
*If Barclays considered it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest element of 
this award, it must then supply Mrs and Mr H with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman