DRN-3799714
The complaint
Mrs R complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about her investment into a 
five year bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) which she thought would be covered 
by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs R invested in B&G bonds on seven different occasions. What is relevant to this decision 
is the third investment she made in November 2017, when she put £3,500 into a B&G 5 Year 
Compounding High Yield Bond. Sales of this bond were dealt with by Bassett Gold Limited 
(BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged 
applications for investment in the bond, through a website it operated - bassetgold.co.uk. 
And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential investors were also 
able to call BG Ltd to discuss the bond.
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and on how to test the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. 
BG Ltds online application process took steps to meet the obligations created by these 
rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out, and consider, 
the relevant rules in my findings.
Neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
own right at the time of Mrs Rs investment. But both were appointed representatives of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium), which was an FCA authorised business.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 
28 February 2018. As such, Gallium is responsible for a complaint about either business 
which is about the acts and omissions which took place during this time, for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility.
Gallium also played a role in relation to the bond in its own right  it was responsible for 
approving BG Ltds marketing and promotional material relating to the bond. Gallium has 
confirmed that the promotional material included the Invitation Document (which was the 
formal financial promotion document for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000), bassetgold.co.uk, and online advertising material (such as Google 
and Facebook adverts) issued by BG Ltd.
Please note I will refer to Gallium in my decision and any such reference should be taken to 
mean Gallium or its legal representative.  
Mrs Rs investment in the bond
Mrs R says she made her first investment into B&G bonds after her husband had done so  
once his bond had matured, BG Ltd told him about another offer and this was how she 
became aware of the investment. She completed the online application form on 
bassetgold.co.uk and using money shed inherited, applied to invest £3,500. This particular 
bond Mrs R invested in offered an interest rate of 9.01% per year, with the invested capital 
and accrued interest to be returned after five years. 
Mrs R says tells us she was a pensioner at the time, and that she had relied on the 
reference to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and the regulated nature 
of the company. We understand that over time Mrs R directed much of her savings into B&G 
bonds  it appears at the point of sale her investment into this particular bond represented 
around 20% of her savings.
When Mrs R referred her complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with several but most were service and enquiry calls, or to do with 
making other investments  importantly, none were pertinent to the sale of the November 
2017 investment we are considering now, so the recordings have not been material in my 
consideration of this complaint.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. That email included the 
following:
To date the vast majority of lending has been to an FCA regulated lender that 
currently holds approximately 36,000 consumer loans. We are happy with the way 
that investment is performing, and the underlying spread of loans across tens of 
thousands of borrowers provides strong levels of predictability and resilience. 
As Basset & Gold Plc is currently predominantly invested in a single lender, it is our 
responsibility to ensure that you are aware of the associated risk, known as 
Concentration Risk. It might help to explain this risk if you think about the goose 
that laid the golden egg. It was a great asset, but it only took one goose to die for the 
asset to dry up. Basset & Golds investment team has performed due diligence on 
more than 40 opportunities over the past year. Its investment philosophy has been to 
accept the risk of holding one good asset, rather than diluting quality in order to 
improve diversification. We hope that this will translate into improved diversification 
over time, but as an investor you should be aware that Basset & Gold will only 
proceed with an investment when they are happy with it, even if that prolongs the 
Concentration Risk. 
This refers to the fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to 
one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle 
Buck went into administration in March 2020  and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mrs R has not had her invested capital or accrued interest returned 
to her.
The online application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the application process. These show the 
application journey that Mrs R underwent.Certification
Mrs R would first have arrived at a page titled APPLY NOW TO BECOME AN INVESTOR 
which asks the customer to provide some basic details, The next page is titled PLEASE 
SELECT THE MOST ACCURATE INVESTOR PROFILE FROM THE LIST BELOW and in 
this case asked Mrs R to select from EVERYDAY INVESTOR, SELF CERTIFIED 
SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR, ADVISED INVESTOR or HIGH NET WORTH 
INVESTOR.
Mrs R selected EVERYDAY INVESTOR, which was described as follows:
What Is An Everyday Investor?
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree not to make more 
than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property 
excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. 
illiquid). This is why the FCA refers to these investors as Restricted Investors.
Having selected this profile, Mrs R was then asked to make a statement, confirmation and 
declaration as follows:
Everyday Investor Statement
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to 
non-readily realisable securities and investments as a restricted investor.
I declare that I qualify as a restricted investor because both of the following apply:
In the preceding twelve months, I have not invested more than 10% of my net assets 
in non-readily realisable securities.
I undertake that in the following twelve months, I will not invest more than 10% of my 
net assets in non-readily realisable securities. 
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan 
secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance;
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the 
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my 
dependents are), or may be, entitled.
Investment Duration
I confirm that I am aware that the minimum duration of the current bonds on offer are 
as follows:
Cash Bond: 30 business days.
3 Year Monthly Income Bond: 3 years.
5 Year Monthly Income Bond: 5 years. 
Compounding High-Yield Bond: 5 years.
Pensioner Bonds: 1 year extendable up to 5 years.
Declaration
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all the money or other property invested.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who 
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am 
familiar with this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or 
liquidating assets to invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing via a SIPP/SSAS created specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable 
Security. I will retain access to sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am 
aware the Bond is intended to be an income producing product and not a product 
that provides capital growth.
I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of 
this declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation."
Mrs R was required to click Next to make the required statement, confirmation and 
declaration.
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, Mrs R would then have arrived at a page titled JUST A 
FEW MORE OUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) which, included the following multiple-
choice questions and answers, and a concluding confirmation:
"These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for 
you. Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is 
correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET & 
GOLD BONDS?
oThe bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds
oYes I can transfer them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET & GOLD BONDS?
oIs the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back 
at the end)
oIs dependent on movement in the financial bond and equity markets
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
oNo, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested
oYes, my capital is secure and I have no risk of losing
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD 
SHARES?
oYes
oNo
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN 
INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
oThat you should invest all your money into a single bond.
oThat you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as 
other less risky investments.
I confirm that I have read, understood and agree to Basset Gold Ltd's terms and 
conditions of service and confirm that I would like to become a client of Basset Gold 
Ltd and receive financial promotions from time to time."
If any question was answered incorrectly the website displayed the following message (at 
the point of the particular question being answered incorrectly):"You have selected an incorrect answer. If this was an error please correct your 
answer, however please consider that if you are unfamiliar with the features of this 
investment then it might not be suitable for you."
Mrs R completed the full process, so clearly answered the questions correctly - but it is not 
known if she answered any questions incorrectly initially and changed her answers, having 
seen this message.
Answering the questions correctly allowed Mrs R to move to the final stages, which involved 
selecting an ISA or bond, selecting which of the products she wanted to invest in, and how 
much she wanted to invest. After completing these final stages consumers were able to click 
on a box to open the Invitation Document for the bond. However, it was not mandatory to do 
this - consumers were able to proceed without opening the Invitation Document. 
Gallium's response to Mrs R's complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs R's complaint. It said, in summary:
Issuing the bond and the subsequent performance of B&G Plcs business and 
lending activities were not regulated activities and were not matters for which Gallium 
assumed any responsibility.
The various financial promotions at the time, including the B&G Plcs website and the 
Invitation Document, described the investment opportunity and contained appropriate 
risk warnings for potential investors.
Mrs R had not provided the necessary details or documentation to support a valid 
complaint in respect of mis-selling of the bond.
I have considered these submissions in full. I have also seen a copy of what Gallium 
described as its "position statement, which sets out general information on the background 
to complaints about B&G Plc bonds and have considered this when reaching my decision.
Our investigator's view
After Mrs R referred her complaint to us, Gallium challenged our jurisdiction  it said the 
complaint had been made too late as Mrs R referred it to us more than six months after 
shed received the final response letter. One of our ombudsmen considered this but 
disagreed  he said, in summary, that Galliums letter hadnt satisfied the requirements of a 
final response letter, so the six month time limit hadnt been triggered.
Thereafter, one of our investigators considered the merits of Mrs R's complaint and 
concluded it should be upheld. He said, in summary:
He was satisfied that Gallium, as the principal of BG Ltd, was responsible for the acts 
or omissions the complaint relates to. 
The application process - both in terms of the certification of Mrs R as a "restricted 
investor" and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was 
misleading and didn't gather sufficient information to comply with the FCA's rules.Overall, BG Ltd, on Gallium's behalf, didn't comply with its regulatory obligations. Had 
it done so Mrs R wouldn't have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded 
that it shouldn't allow Mrs R to invest. For these reasons, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs R for the loss she has suffered.
Gallium's response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigator's view. It said, in summary: 
On the scope of the complaint:
The complaint is very limited in scope and is confined to Basset & Gold Plc entering 
administration, and Mrs R therefore no longer receiving returns or capital back. The 
investigator hadnt made any adverse findings against Gallium in respect of any of 
the allegations actually made by Mrs R. Instead, findings were on points which Mrs R 
had not complained about, namely the appropriateness of the bond and whether she 
was entitled to receive financial promotions in respect of it. Mrs Rs complaint is not 
about these matters. It thought the case ought to have been dismissed. 
On the certification process:
Regardless of label, Mrs R was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. If Mrs R misrepresented that she 
fulfilled those criteria, it is a well-established legal position that she should be 
estopped from now seeking to take a position contrary to that representation. It would 
not be fair or reasonable to expect Gallium to anticipate that investors would 
incorrectly claim to satisfy the requirements of the declaration.
It is not fair or reasonable to conclude that the use of the word "everyday contributed 
to Mrs R giving an incorrect declaration, by causing her to pay insufficient attention to 
the terms of the declaration.
Mrs R ought to be held to the declaration she made that she satisfied the 
requirements of a restricted investor.
On the appropriateness test:
Our investigator suggests that Gallium failed to test appropriateness adequately, 
because it failed to sufficiently ascertain Mrs Rs knowledge and actual investment 
experience, in order to ascertain whether the investment was appropriate for her. 
This is not correct.
The fundamental question when assessing appropriateness is whether the client is 
able to understand the risks involved in relation to the product (COBS 10.2.1R).
COBS 10.2.1R notwithstanding, depending on the circumstances, a business may 
conclude that knowledge alone is sufficient for the client to understand the risks 
involved in the product. Equally, a firm may infer knowledge from experience (COBS 
10.2.6G).
Depending on the nature of the client and product complexity and risks, it may be 
appropriate for the business to seek information on the types of investment with 
which the client is familiar, their history of similar investments, and their level of 
education and profession. But there is no requirement to seek all of that information in every case; it is required only to the extent it is relevant to assessing whether the 
client was able to understand the risks of the product (COBS 10.2.2R).
The FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around appropriateness since 
Mrs R made her investment, and the regulatory environment has changed. At the 
time of the investment, however, the FCA had publicly articulated different 
expectations. We must apply regulatory expectations as they existed at the relevant 
time and not seek to apply the different standards that exist today in a retrospective 
manner.
In 2014 there had been discussions between the FCA and crowdfunding industry as 
to what the FCA expected businesses to do to ensure investments were appropriate 
for investors. The guidance took the form of two question and answer sessions with 
the FCA's Head of lnvestment Policy and UK Crowdfunding Association ("UKCFA"). 
These sessions addressed, in particular, the question of whether investor experience 
and education needed to form part of an appropriateness assessment. Gallium had 
regard to this guidance when considering BG Ltd's appropriateness testing.
It understands that guidance provided by the FCA in those industry meetings clarified 
that firms were able to satisfy themselves of what information was pertinent to their 
investment process. Importantly, in appropriate circumstances, the FCA would not 
insist on an appropriateness test containing questions about education or prior 
investment experience.
Gallium did in fact carry out adequate testing of investors' relevant knowledge and 
experience. Gallium required prospective investors to pass the appropriateness test 
by correctly answering 100% of the questions asked. In completing the 
appropriateness test, information was obtained about an investors knowledge and 
experience of the key characteristics of the bond.
Mrs R certified that she was an "everyday investor, confirming I have made 
investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with this 
type of Investment."
All investors also expressly confirmed that the bond "may expose me to a significant 
risk of losing all of the money or other property Invested' and they had read and 
understood the Invitation Document including the terms and conditions of the bond 
and associated risks. The Invitation Document provided investors with full details of 
the nature of the investment and its risks.
Taken together, the appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were 
sufficient for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient 
knowledge and experience of the bond to understand the risks those bonds involved, 
per COBS 10.2.1(2)R.
The fact Mrs R was able to invest demonstrates that she answered the 
appropriateness test correctly and gave the confirmations. Gallium was entitled to 
conclude that she had answered each question honestly and conscientiously, and in 
so doing had demonstrated she understood the investment opportunity.
COBS 10.2.4R provides that [a] firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by 
a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or 
incomplete. Gallium had no such awareness.If Mrs R misrepresented her knowledge and experience, in accordance with well-
established legal principles explained above, she should be estopped from taking a 
position contrary to her own representation. If investors were willing to give false 
information in response to the appropriateness test and the confirmations, there is no 
basis to suppose they would have given accurate information had further questions 
been asked.
On whether Mrs R would have proceeded with the investment in any event:
The wording of the notice given to Mrs R in 2019 was approved by the FCA as being 
appropriate wording to inform investors of the risk. It is, therefore, unreasonable to 
find that this notice was not adequate, or that it gave investors insufficient warning.
Mrs R expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with the 
investment she was at risk of losing her capital invested. Mrs R cannot now be 
permitted to suggest that she would not have knowingly put capital at risk, having 
confirmed on numerous occasions understanding and acknowledging that capital 
was at risk.
Nor can the decision rationally conclude either that there is nothing in the evidence to 
suggest that Mrs R wanted to take any risk with her money. Not only is there 
evidence to demonstrate that Mrs R specifically acknowledges the risk to her money, 
but there is also an absence of any evidence to suggest that Mrs R was not prepared 
to take that risk.
The 9.01% interest rates evidence Mrs R knew the investment was not risk free  the 
Bank of England Base Rate was well below 1% so its not realistic to suggest she did 
not appreciate or accept the risk.
On the basis that Gallium disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed 
to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge  the complaint  made  to us was quite  wide  and that Mrs R didnt  specify  
some  of the points  our investigator  considered,  but the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is 
an informal  dispute  resolution  forum.  A complaint made  to us need  not be, and rarely is, 
made  out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings.  As recognised by the High Court in R 
(Williams)  v Financial Ombudsman  Service  [2008]  EWHC  2142,  our service  deals  with 
complaints not causes of action.  Our jurisdiction  is inquisitorial, not adversarial.  
The points  our investigator  considered   including  the regulatory  framework,  how Mrs R 
came  to make  her investment  and why it was considered  appropriate  for her  are key 
to thinking  about  her overall  concerns  about  being  in a position  where  shes  lost her 
money  despite  the regulatory  protection  she thought  was in place.  In my view,  the points  
our investigator  considered  and what  my decision  will go on to consider  are within  the 
scope  of Mrs Rs complaint  and are points  which  are appropriate  for me to consider  
inquisitorially,  given  the nature  of the complaint.
I have  also,  for completeness,  considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to 
decide  whether  we can consider  Mrs R's complaint.Rule  DISP  2.3.1R  says  we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying on regulated activities ... or any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them'.
And the guidance al DISP 2.3.3G says:
"complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firm ... has accepted responsibility).
The bond was a security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 ("RAO"). At the time Mrs R 
made her investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in 
investments. Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form 
and sending it off, with the client's payment, to the investment issuer would come within the 
scope of Article 25(1 ), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the 
transaction. So, I am satisfied the online application process falls within the scope or Article 
25(1). These acts all involved making arrangements for Mrs R to invest in the bond and had 
the direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
So, I am satisfied Mrs R's complaint - insofar as it relates to the bond application process  
is about regulated activities. I am also satisfied this part of the complaint is about acts for 
which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be 
considered in a complaint against it.
I am not able to consider B&G Plc's issuing of the bond or what B&G Plc did with the money 
once Mrs R invested. B&G Plcs issuing of the bond and what B&G Plc did with the money 
once Mrs R invested did not involve regulated activities.
I am of the view that in this case the focus is on the acts or omissions of BG Ltd, as it was 
BG Ltd which was responsible for the sale of the bond.
The merits of Mrs R's complaint
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have first considered what the relevant 
considerations are in this case. 
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Gallium met its regulatory obligations when BG Ltd, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts 
the complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here.The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCA's Handbook "are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system" (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 are 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6 - Customers' interests - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients -A firm must pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which 
is clear, fair and not misleading"
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, Clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear 
and not misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below 
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7  Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a 
direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for 
communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial 
promotion is one of the following:
(a) certified as a 'high net worth investor' in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a 'sophisticated investor' in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a 'Sophisticated Investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d)  certified as a 'restricted investor' in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in 
relation to the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on 
appropriateness (see COBS 10) or equivalent requirements for any application or 
order that the person is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, is in response to the 
direct offer financial promotion.COBS 4.7.10R
A certified restricted investor is an individual who has signed, within a period of 
twelve months ending with the day on which the communication is made, a statement 
in the following terms:
RESTRICTED INVESTOR STATEMENT
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to non-
readily realisable securities as a restricted investor. I declare that I qualify as a restricted 
investor because:
(a) In the twelve months preceding the date below, I have not invested more than 10% of 
my net assets in non-readily realisable securities; and
(b) I undertake that in the twelve months following the date below, I will not invest more 
than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan 
secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance; or
(c) any benefits (In the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the 
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my 
dependents are), or may be entitled: or
(d) any withdrawals from my pension savings (except where the withdrawals are used 
directly for income in retirement).
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. I am aware that it is 
open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising on 
non-readily realisable securities.
Signature:
Date:''
COBS 10  Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2R said:
"'This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily 
realisable security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is 
aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response 
to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
"(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product 
or service offered or demanded:"
COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment 
field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and 
extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, 
including their complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar:
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client"
10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
"Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the clients knowledge 
alone is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service. 
Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3  Warning the client and COBS 10.3.1R:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm 
must warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R:
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge 
and experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the 
firm to determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for her.
COBS 10.3.3G:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning 
by the firm. it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the 
circumstances.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCA's policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCA's Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have had regard 
to the policy statement, and to Galliums recollections of the two question and answer 
sessions.I have taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and given careful consideration to all Gallium has said. 
My decision, in summary, is as follows:
BG Ltd, acting on Gallium's behalf, misled Mrs R into certifying herself as belonging 
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor") by changing the 
term used in the rules to "everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs R fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs R, it is unlikely she 
would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs R. In the circumstances Mrs R would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs R.
For these reasons - individually and cumulatively - my decision is that Mrs R's complaint 
should be upheld. Im also satisfied Mrs R would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs R for her loss.
I have set things out in more detail below.
The online application process
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the B&G Plc 
bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it 
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be 
satisfied before a business such as BG Ltd (here acting on Gallium's behalf) could 
communicate or approve a direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable 
security such as the bond issued by B&G Plc.
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a business 
must satisfy the two conditions, which I have set out above. I will consider the steps taken by 
BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, in relation to each in turn.
At the outset I think it is important to emphasise the bond Mrs R invested in were not a 
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included the track record of 
B&G Plc, the detail of its due diligence on the businesses it would be lending to, the criteria 
B&G Plc applied to its lending and the conditions on which the loan was made. The credit 
history of the business the loan was made to would also need to be considered, its capacity 
to repay, and its capital position.  Furthermore, as the business B&G Plc was lending to was 
itself lending, the lending criteria it applied, the default rate and the success of its past 
lending would need to be considered. All of these points (and this is not an exhaustive list) 
would need to be considered in order to understand the investment.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings 
agencies - carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a 
view (a "rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before 
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumer's understanding of 
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a recognised exchange, and so could not be readily sold (in fact it seems to have been a condition of the 
investment that it could not be transferred). And, as Gallium has pointed out, the Invitation 
Document which set out the details of the bond was over 40 pages long. I have read the 
document and it contains a lot of complex technical information which may not be readily 
understood by the average investor.
So, the bond was complex, risky and specialist and this is why the bond fell into a category 
of investment on which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. And an 
obvious risk of consumer detriment arises if the rules relating to this are not properly applied. 
The importance of Gallium fully meeting its regulatory obligations here was therefore high. 
Its responsibility was significant. And the steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need 
to be considered with that in mind.
Certification
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mrs R, to be 
certified as being in one of four categories of investor in order to receive promotional 
communications relating to the bond. In this case, Mrs R was certified as a "restricted 
investor". The detail of this category and the process by which an investor can certify 
themselves as belonging to it is set out in COBS 4.7.10R, which I have quoted above.
I am of the view the certification stage of the application stage on BG Ltd's website did not 
meet the requirements of COBS 4.7.10R in a number of ways.
Firstly, BG Ltd did not use the correct term  restricted investor - it instead used the term 
"everyday investor".
Secondly, the statement, confirmation and declaration Mrs R was asked to make included 
some of the wording set out in 4.7.10R - but not all of it. And additions had been made. The 
title or the statement also departed from the wording set out in 4.7.10R - it was described as 
an Everyday Investor Statement.
Finally, BG Ltd provided its own definition of a restricted (or, as it put it. "everyday") investor, 
as follows:
"Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make 
more than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and 
property excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold 
i.e. Illiquid). This is why the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors."
But the requirements set out in 4.7.10R are much further reaching than "You just need to 
agree to not make more than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, 
bonds and property excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be 
sold. 4.7.10R requires the prospective investor to agree to all of the following:
In the twelve months preceding the certification date, not to have invested more than 
10% of their net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To undertake that in the twelve months following the certification date, they will not 
invest more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To accept that the investment may expose them to a significant risk of losing all of 
the money invested.To be aware that it is open to them to seek advice from an authorised person who 
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have considered the impact of these departures from the requirements of 4.7.10R.
As set out in the background above, Mrs R was offered the option of four "investor profiles, 
after she had completed the first stages of her application. The options, other than "everyday 
investor" were "self certified sophisticated investor, "advised investor" or high net worth 
investor.
I am of the view the change of the term "'restricted investor" to "everyday investor and BG 
Ltd's definition of this being a category to which anyone could belong, by simply agreeing 
to not make more than 10% of their investments in investments that cannot easily be sold, 
had the effect of making the restricted investor category appear to be one into which 
investors like Mrs R would naturally fall.
"Restricted is, by its common and ordinary meaning, something which is limited in amount 
or range. Synonyms include words like limited, constricted and controlled. And what is set 
out in 4.7.10R is consistent with this. "Everyday is, by its common and ordinary meaning, 
something which is ordinary, typical or usual and is inconsistent with what is set out in 
4,7.10R. The change of the term was also likely to alter how it was perceived. This is 
compounded by BG Ltd's definition of a restricted investor as being a category to which 
"anyone" can belong. Clearly not "anyone" can belong to a restricted category.
I am of the view this put undue emphasis on the everyday investor" option and led 
consumers like Mrs R to selecting this option when they may not have done so otherwise. I 
do not think it was fair or reasonable for BG Ltd to act in this way. It was not treating Mrs R 
fairly or acting in her best interests. BG Ltd ought to have known that changing the term 
created a risk of consumers perceiving a restricted investor to be something different to 
what it was, and certifying themselves incorrectly as a result, and risked consumers skipping 
through this as a formality.
I note Gallium says It would not be fair or reasonable to expect it to anticipate that investors 
would incorrectly claim to satisfy the requirements of a restricted investor. I have not been 
persuaded on this point. If you change the description of a category from "restricted" to an 
"everyday one to which "anyone can belong an obvious risk is that prospective investors 
who do not belong in the category mistake the category as being one to which they do 
belong. Indeed, it is difficult to see why BG Ltd departed from 4.7.10R and changed the term 
and definition other than to get investors to certify themselves as being eligible to receive a 
promotion of the bond when they might not otherwise have done so. In my view this appears 
to have been done to contrive this outcome in a bid to access more investors.
I am of the view an "everyday investor - particularly when described as a category to which 
anyone" can belong - is an option Mrs R would immediately have understood or could 
resonate with as that term is a reasonable description of an investor with her characteristics 
- someone without significant investment experience or assets who was looking to invest a 
modest amount to provide a better return on her investments. In my view Mrs R would have 
been attracted to this profile based on her understanding and perception of the word 
"everyday"' and the description of it as a category to which anyone can belong.
It does not appear Mrs R qualified as a restricted investor - this investment saw her increase 
her total exposure in non-readily realisable investments to over 30% - and possibly up to 
60% - of her assets depending on how she and her husband delineated their savings. Either 
way, her exposure was too high. I also think it unlikely she was aware the bond had significant risk associated with it. I am satisfied there is sufficient evidence to make a finding 
Mrs R was unlikely to be aware of the significant risk associated with the bond, given her 
limited investment experience and trust in FSCS cover.  
I note Gallium's view is that Mrs R nonetheless gave the statement, confirmation and 
declaration, that it is not credible to say she would have completely disregarded the detail of 
these, and that it was reasonable for it to rely on them.
I acknowledge that the statement, confirmation and declaration did largely mirror what is set 
out in 4.7.10R and Mrs R did state, confirm and declare something which was not accurate. 
However, I think it unlikely Mrs R knowingly gave a false statement. The money invested 
was important to her, so I dont think she had regard to the full detail of the statement, 
confirmation and declaration and chose to proceed having understood them in full. I think it 
instead likely that she did not consider the detail of what she was being asked to agree to as 
she understood it to be an everyday i.e. ordinary, typical or usual category, to which 
"anyone could belong. And, as mentioned above, I think BG Ltd should have been aware 
this was a possible consequence of it changing the wording required by the FCA's rules.
I note Gallium's reference to case law relating to circumstances where someone is seeking 
to take a position contrary to an earlier representation. The law is a relevant consideration 
which I need to take into account. But I am of the view the case law Gallium has referred to 
is quite different to the facts of this case. The Bank of Leumi v Wachner case, for example, 
relates to circumstances where Ms Wachner was clearly a wealthy, sophisticated investor 
with lots of experience of previous similar investments and in that situation the court decided 
that it was fair for the business to rely on the professional client declaration made and that it 
was likely Ms Wachner did understand the papers she signed. The situation is quite different 
here, where Mrs R is investing a significant sum that she could not replace and has limited 
investment experience.
Mrs R is also not making a legal claim - instead, her concerns are generally around why she 
cant get her money back, given the regulatory protection she thought was in place - my role 
here is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, on the basis I have set 
out. I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to say the statement, confirmation and 
declaration should be relied on in circumstances where, in my view, Mrs R was misled into 
giving them.
I think it is unlikely Mrs R would have made the statement, confirmation and declaration at all 
had the correct "restricted investor" term been used and had the website not presented the 
restricted investor category as being an "everyday one into which anyone could fall. I 
think, in the circumstances, the correct term would have made Mrs R pause for thought. As 
mentioned, she had little investment experience and was investing a sum which was 
significant to her. I do not think in such circumstances she would have proceeded had she 
been told she was a "restricted" investor. As mentioned above, I think "restricted" has a very 
different meaning to everyday". The latter would have provided comfort to Mrs R whereas 
the former would have made her pause for thought and realise that it was a category to 
which she did not belong. I also think it unlikely she would have described herself as a "self-
certified sophisticated investor, advised investor or high net worth investor" as it would 
have been clear from the descriptions of those categories that she did not fit into them either.
So, I am satisfied if BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet Gallium's regulatory obligations Mrs R would not have got beyond this stage. The first 
condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have proceeded 
beyond this. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs R's complaint on this 
basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to consider the appropriateness 
test.Appropriateness
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on 
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section 
above.
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, to ask 
Mrs R to provide information regarding her knowledge and experience - and for this 
information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required 
that information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mrs R did have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks Involved (the second limb of the 
rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, when 
considering what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the 
type of product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar:
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments 
and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client"
I am of the view BG Ltd failed to ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mrs R's 
knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R. 
BG Ltd did not refer to an appropriateness test on the website - it instead referred to just a 
few more questions (required by law)". I think this, in itself, is a further example of BG Ltd 
downplaying the significance of the regulatory requirements and attempting to make them 
appear as a formality, as it did under the certification section.
Under the "few more questions section BG Ltd asked five questions which tested 
knowledge. These questions asked whether Mrs R knew if the bond was transferable, if the 
return was fixed, if their capital was secure, if the bond could be converted to shares and the 
meaning of diversification. Nothing was asked about Mrs R's experience. And if Mrs R got a 
question wrong, she would be told her answer was wrong and prompted to reconsider it.
Even if Mrs R did know the correct answer to all five questions without prompting this only 
showed she understood the bond was not transferrable, the return was fixed, capital was at 
risk, whether the bond could be converted into shares and was able to select a correct 
answer from two options as to what the definition of diversification was.
I believe this falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mrs R had the knowledge 
to understand the risk associated with the bond - particularly in circumstances where the 
multiple-choice options were limited to two and Mrs R was allowed repeated efforts to get 
them right. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for 
example, a question of whether Mrs R simply understood money could be lost - but whether 
she was able to understand how likely that might be and what factors might lead to it 
happening.
Gallium has referred to it being reasonable to rely on the statement, confirmation and 
declaration given during the restricted or "everyday" investors stage of Mrs Rs application. I 
acknowledge BG Ltd asked Mrs R to declare, at the previous stage "I am familiar with this type of investment and "I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months". 
And it says this means it did have some information about Mrs R's experience, and 
additional information about her knowledge. However, I am of the view, even accounting for 
the declaration, an appropriate level of information was not asked for. I also believe, for the 
reasons I have set out in the previous section, the statement, confirmation and declaration 
could not reasonably be relied on in the circumstances in which it was obtained.
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable to carry out the 
assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been confident from the 
information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mrs R had the necessary experience 
and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it 
was not in a position to make such an assessment based on the information it obtained.
In its response Gallium referred to 10.2.6G which says there may be circumstances in which 
a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient for them to understand 
the risks involved in a product or service.
These were not such circumstances - not least because BG Ltd did not ask for an 
appropriate amount of information about Mrs R's knowledge. The guidance in any event 
does not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to apply where the client has 
been asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules require, and the information 
obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It does not say a business can ask 
only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness test.
Gallium has referred to the industry conferences with the FCA and to the FCA's policy 
statement PS14/04. This relates to the regulation of firms operating online crowdfunding 
platforms or conducting other similar activities. It does not however specify what guidance 
from the FCA it received, and I have seen no evidence to show that any guidance provided 
to Gallium implied it did not have to ask about Mrs R's experience at all.
I have read the policy statement, and it simply confirms the rules on appropriateness apply 
and must be followed. I note, for example, the statement confirms, at 4.24, that firms are 
required to assess whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risk involved. In relation to the crowdfunding coming under its regulation the 
FCA's proposal (which was adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
"where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that 
clients have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved 
before being invited to respond to an offer
The policy statement does not therefore change my view that BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not meet its regulatory obligations. And I have seen no evidence to show the 
FCA gave guidance to Gallium otherwise which would have led it to conclude its 
appropriateness test was adequate.
In any event - and notwithstanding what I say above about COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G  it 
remains the case that as Gallium did not ask for sufficient information about Mrs R's 
knowledge, it was not in a position to assess whether her knowledge alone was sufficient.
Gallium also suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around 
appropriateness since Mrs R made her investment in 2017, and the regulatory environment 
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the 
time.Had the process been consistent with what the rules required - had Mrs R been asked for 
appropriate information about her knowledge and experience - the only reasonable 
conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mrs R did not have 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the bond.
Mrs R had limited investment experience and I have seen no evidence to show she had 
anything other than a basic knowledge of investments. I dont think Mrs Rs earlier B&G 
investments meant she had tangible experience of investments of this type either  one was 
made three months earlier and the other only one month earlier - so at the time of investing, 
there hadnt been any real development in Mrs Rs knowledge and experience. I also have 
not seen this was something considered at the time (nor was there provision for this within 
the online application process). In any event, having held another bond prior to investing in 
the bond subject to the complaint cannot reasonably be considered meaningful experience, 
insofar as it would enable Mrs R to understand the risks involved. So it would not be 
sufficient to conclude this bond was appropriate for her on that basis. 
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1R said a warning must 
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
Gallium has said if customers answered one or more questions incorrectly that means they 
received the warning that the bond may not be appropriate and elected to proceed anyway. 
But, if a warning was given, it was not given in a way which met COBS 10.3.1R. This 
envisages the test being completed, and a result determined, before the warning was given. 
As BG Ltd designed the test the only warning was in response to incorrect answers and 
simply said "if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it might not be 
suitable for you". In my view this does not meet what is required by COBS 10.3.1R, which is 
a warning that the product is not appropriate. And, by allowing Mrs R the opportunity to 
effectively silence the warning through selecting a different answer, the impact of it was 
reduced in any event.
The process also did not give BG Ltd the opportunity to consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs R wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
A warning which told Mrs R clearly an investment in the bond was not appropriate for her 
would likely have put her off proceeding further. That is a clear, emphatic statement which 
would have left her in no doubt the bond was not an appropriate investment for her. And she 
ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an appropriateness test consistent with the 
requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore - and separately from any acceptance of a warning by Mrs R - had BG Ltd 
given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to go ahead with the 
transaction if Mrs R wished to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about 
Mrs R's knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to 
conclude it should not allow Mrs R to proceed. Had Mrs R been asked for appropriate 
information about her knowledge and experience this would have shown she may not have 
the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond. As mentioned, I have seen 
no evidence to show Mrs R had anything other than a very limited knowledge of 
investments. In these circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd 
to conclude it should proceed if Mrs R wanted to, despite a warning (which, as noted, was 
not in any event given in the required terms or required way).All in all, I am satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably 
when assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did it was not 
treating Mrs R fairly or acting in her best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mrs R would not 
have got beyond this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs R's 
complaint on this basis alone. Even if I am wrong to say Mrs R would not have said she was 
a "restricted investor" and given the statement, confirmation and declaration relating to this, 
had BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, acted differently (and for the reasons I have set out, I still 
do not consider that to be the case), Mrs R would not have got beyond this second stage.
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have 
proceeded beyond this.
Invitation Document
Gallium has referred to the explanation of risks set out in the Invitation Document. However, 
I am of the view things need to be considered in the order in which Mrs R would have been 
privy to them. Mrs R could only have been privy to the Invitation Document after having 
completed the certification and appropriateness test. And, as I set out above, I do not think 
Mrs R should have reached this point.
I acknowledge that Mrs R may have seen the Invitation Document, as she was incorrectly 
certified as a restricted investor as a result of being misled by BG Ltd and the bond was 
incorrectly assessed as being appropriate for her due to BG Ltd failing to meet its regulatory 
obligations in relation to this. However, considering the available evidence, I think it unlikely 
Mrs R looked at the Invitation Document in any detail and I think she did not have the 
capacity to fully understand it even if she did look at it in detail.
So, I am of the view Gallium cannot reasonably rely on the Invitation Document to say Mrs R 
had an understanding of the bond and proceeded on that basis.
I think it is also important to say that an objective of the appropriateness test was to protect 
consumers such as Mrs R from receiving communications about investments which were not 
appropriate for them. One obvious reason for this being that such consumers may not be 
able to fully understand these communications. So, it would not be fair and reasonable to 
say, where the test has not been applied as set out in the rules and an incorrect conclusion 
reached on appropriateness as a result, that any knowledge subsequently acquired from the 
Invitation Document can be used in an effort to retrospectively satisfy the test.
The website and any other marketing material
For similar reasons to those given above, I am of the view I do not need to consider anything 
else (i.e. other than the application stages set out) Mrs R may have been privy to before 
making the investment. I say this because nothing else that could have been conceivably 
shown on the website or elsewhere changes the position that Mrs R would not - and could 
not - have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R and therefore could not 
receive promotional communications relating to the bond.
Is it fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs R?
I have considered all the points Gallium has made. However, for the reasons given, I am 
satisfied that if BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations Mrs R could not - or would not - have proceeded to invest in the bond.Mrs R could not have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R in order to 
receive promotional communications relating to the bond. And even if I am wrong about the 
first condition, Mrs R could not have passed an appropriateness test which met the 
requirements of the rules and so could not have met the second condition, in any event. And 
even if she had said she wanted to proceed following a warning (and such a warning had 
been given in a way which was consistent with the rules) I do not think, as I set out above, 
that it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should allow Mrs R to 
proceed.
So, Mrs R should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations. The starting point is therefore that it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs R for the loss she has suffered as a result of making the investment.
Gallium states that customers acknowledged that by proceeding with the investments they 
were at risk of losing the capital invested, and this is evidence they would have proceeded to 
invest in the bond regardless of what it did. It adds that the high return offered reflected the 
fact capital was at risk and it is unrealistic to think that Mrs R was not aware of this and 
prepared to take a risk with her capital.
Gallium has also referred to the January 2019 update email. It says the wording of this 
notice was approved by the FCA as being appropriate wording to inform investors of the risk 
and it is, therefore, unreasonable to find that this notice was not adequate, or that it gave 
investors insufficient warning. 
I do not think it would be fair to say Mrs R should not be compensated on this basis. Firstly, 
she should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet 
its regulatory obligations. Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event 
persuaded Mrs R did proceed with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond.
As noted above, I am not persuaded Mrs R looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements 
she gave, and I think she was reassured by the "everyday investors description associated 
with them. And, given what Mrs R has said when making her complaint, and her lack of 
investment experience, I am not persuaded she understood from the relatively high return on 
offer that the investment involved significant risk.
Turning to the 2019 email, what I am considering here is the impact of the warning in the 
specific circumstances of Mrs R complaint and what impact it actually had. I do think the 
wording was largely reassuring and it is fair to consider that it had very little impact (Gallium 
says that only one of 1,700 Investors who received this email took any action). I have not 
seen any further evidence on the FCA's approval of this communication but, even if it was 
approved as an adequate general warning, I need to consider it in the context of the facts of 
this individual complaint. And I do not think it follows from any approval by the FCA that it 
would not be fair to ask Gallium to pay compensation in circumstances such as those in this 
complaint.
As mentioned, I am not persuaded Mrs R had the capacity to fully understand the risks 
associated with the bond - and she was in this position because BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at the outset. And 
I think this is sufficient reason for me to find it would not be fair to say the January 2019 
update, even if received, means Mrs R should not be compensated for the loss she suffered.
I am therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs R.In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration - individually and cumulatively - I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. I am satisfied, for all the 
reasons given, that Mrs R would not have invested in the bond had BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair to 
ask Gallium to compensate Mrs R for the loss she has suffered.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs R as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the 
bond.
I think Mrs R would have invested differently, it is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs R's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs R fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest award.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
bondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs R agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs R that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs R wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any significant risk to her 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs R's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs R would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman