DRN-2407436
The complaint
Mr K complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) recorded a default on his credit file. 
Mr K is also unhappy with a reduction in his credit limit and not being offered a payment 
freeze on his account. Mr K wants the default removed, interest refunded and his account 
closed. 
What happened
Mr K had a credit card account with Vanquis from October 2013. Mr K has said hed 
experienced some difficulties meeting the repayments on the account.
Vanquis says in June 2019 an arrangement was made for Mr K to repay £30 per month, but 
that three payments were missed from October-December 2019. Vanquis sent Mr K a notice 
of default letting him know that unless he made the minimum payment by 15 January 2020 a 
default might be applied and his account passed to a collections agency. Vanquis says the 
payment wasnt received so the account was passed to a collections agency and a default 
recorded on Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K complained to Vanquis about the default being added to his credit file, his credit limit 
being reduced and also not being offered a payment freeze when he got into financial 
difficulty. Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. They felt theyd handled his account 
correctly, that theyd acted as a responsible lender when reducing his credit limit and at the 
time the account was passed to the collections agency, a payment freeze wasnt an option.
Mr K didnt accept what Vanquis had said and referred his complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. He found that Vanquis didnt act unreasonably when reducing Mr Ks credit limit, 
that Vanquis had an obligation to accurately report information to the credit reference 
agencies and that Mr Ks financial difficulties had been ongoing for some time prior to the 
payment freeze option being available. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr K that I think the investigator reached a fair outcome here. 
So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The reduction in Mr Ks credit limit
Mr K has said that the reduction in his credit limit caused him financial hardship. But I think 
Vanquis acted reasonably by reducing the credit limit to try and help Mr K not build up further 
debt. The relevant account terms state:
.If we reasonably consider it appropriate (e.g.- depending on how your Account is 
run and/or whether your financial circumstances have changed), we may increase or 
decrease your Credit Limit from time to time and will notify you of any such change.
Although the reduction in the credit limit may have inconvenienced Mr K, I dont think 
Vanquis have done anything wrong here. Reducing his credit limit wasnt to penalise him but 
to try and help Mr K avoid increasing his debt again.
The default 
Based on the account history there were various repayment issues - including late and 
missed payments - across a long period of time. Vanquis and Mr K agreed a repayment plan 
from June 2019 under which Mr K agreed to pay £30 per month. Vanquis also reduced the 
interest they were charging Mr K from 3.99% to 0.5%. I consider these to be fair, supportive 
and positive steps by Vanquis to try and help Mr Ks situation. But Mr K continued to use the 
card and was over his credit limit again in July 2019 and no payment was made by Mr K for 
October - December 2019. 
Mr K has told us that he had an ongoing complaint with Vanquis and thats why he didnt 
make payment. But Ive seen a Vanquis system note from 14 September 2019 which, in 
summary, suggests that the adviser told Mr K not to withhold payment whilst his complaint 
was ongoing.  So Im satisfied that Mr K was aware that he still needed to make payment, as 
agreed with Vanquis. Ive also noted that during that call Vanquis took a positive step and 
agreed a match payment whereby, on that occasion, if Mr K paid £30 theyd also pay £30 to 
bring his account up to date. 
No further payments were made (October - December 2019) by Mr K. The non-payment 
broke the payment plan agreement that Mr K had entered into with Vanquis. Vanquis sent 
him letters on 22 November, 29 November and 16 December about late payment. So Im 
satisfied that Mr K was aware he was still behind on his payments. Mr K says he didnt 
receive the letter dated 16 December until early January and I can see he contacted Vanquis 
about this by email on 6 January 2020. A notice of default was then sent on 31 December. 
This gave Mr K until 15 January 2020 to make payment.
Whilst Ive kept in mind that there may well have been some delays with post given it was 
around Christmas time, Ive not seen any supporting evidence that Mr K didnt receive the 
default notice letter dated 31 December 2019. In his email to Vanquis (6 January), Mr K 
refers to getting paid on January 15 and then planning to make payment. 
In their final response letter dated 9 January 2020, Vanquis told Mr K: 
A Notice of Default was correctly issued to you in line with the Terms and Conditions  of 
your account, on 31 December 2019. If you are able to make the minimum payment due of 
£77.36 by the 15 January 2020, then a Notice of Default will not be registered against you. 
And:
Please note however that if no payments are made, and we receive no contact from you, 
the Notice of Default may be registered against you and your account passed to a debt 
collections agency. Although Mr K had indicated that hed planned to make a payment around January 15th, he 
didnt. And Im satisfied that Vanquis had made Mr K aware of the seriousness of what could 
happen (a default being recorded) if he didnt make payment. Vanquis also tried to contact 
him by telephone on 18 January. Although Mr K says communication from Vanquis was 
poor, I dont agree. 
In January 2020 Mr K also queried getting a payment freeze with Vanquis  which they 
declined. I dont think this was an unfair decision given what had happened on the account in 
the preceding months. And a default permanently suspends interest and charges in any 
case. 
Mr K has my sympathy for the difficulties he was experiencing around the end of January 
2020 - including a hospital stay - but these events happened after Vanquis had sent him the 
default notice. I still think overall Vanquis have treated him fairly and reasonably, including 
taking a number of positive and supportive steps to try and help Mr K.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Vanquis  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman