DRN-4400167
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The specifics of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised the key 
details here. 
Mr C wanted to book a hotel room. He used what he believed to be the hotels genuine 
website. But it appears he found himself on a site that had been manipulated by fraudsters. 
Mr C didnt know this at the time and proceeded with his booking, using his debit card to 
make two payments of £298 each.
Upon arrival at the hotel Mr C found there was no existing reservation in his name, and he 
had to pay again at reception. It was upon making further enquiries through the hotel and 
through Nationwide that Mr C discovered hed been deceived.
Nationwide attempted to raise a chargeback with the merchant. But this was successfully 
defended by the merchant on the basis that it had provided the services paid for. That was 
because Mr C had made the two payments to a money transfer service, and the money 
transfer had been made.
Nationwide said there was nothing more it could do and told Mr C it wouldnt refund the 
money. 
Mr C referred the complaint to our service as he was unhappy with Nationwides response. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and found Nationwide had acted 
fairly and reasonably. He could see a chargeback had been raised and he thought that was 
appropriate. He didnt think there was anything else that Nationwide ought to have done 
differently.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators recommendations and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im unable to uphold his complaint. I can see that he has 
been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam. But Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with him, and there are no grounds upon which I can say it should refund him.
I have to consider that the transactions made by Mr C were authorised. And so, as per his 
account terms and conditions, as well as the Payment Service Regulations 2017, it was right 
that Nationwide processed the payments. And its right that Mr C is presumed liable for 
them. 
I know that Mr C was deceived here, with the website and payment process being 
manipulated. He believed he was paying for a hotel room when he was actually sending 
money to a fraudster. Ive no doubt Mr C had no idea this was the case. But the concealing 
of the true payment purpose doesnt alter the answer to the question of authorisation. 
In such circumstances I might expect an account provider like Nationwide to raise a 
chargeback. It neednt always do so. If theres clearly no chance of the chargeback 
succeeding, then it might be fair and reasonable to not raise one. But here I can see 
Nationwide considered there might have been a prospect of success and so raised the 
chargeback through the correct channels.
The merchant successfully defended the chargeback, demonstrating that the services it was 
contracted to provide had been delivered. Once that successful defence was provided there 
was little more Nationwide could do. 
I can see our investigator thought about whether the payments ought to have appeared 
unusual to Nationwide, and whether that was to the extent that it ought to have stopped 
them and asked Mr C about them. Our investigator found that wasnt the case and Im of the 
same view. I dont consider the payments were so remarkable that Nationwide ought to have 
been concerned that Mr C was at risk of financial harm.
Im sorry Mr C has lost this money. I know the answer Im giving him will feel as though hes 
receiving no justice, having been the victim of a crime. But my role is to consider 
Nationwides responsibilities and liabilities here, and to look at whether its acted fairly and 
reasonably. Having done so, I cant say theres any more Nationwide ought to have done. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman