DRN-3106708
The complaint
Mrs C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC treated her unfairly by charging interest on a loan 
she took out to repay her overdraft.
What happened
Mrs C banked with Barclays, and her current account had an overdraft facility. In 2014, her 
account was overdrawn by around £2,900. Around this time, she became concerned about 
how she could repay this when she heard Barclays would be changing the way it charged 
customers with overdrawn balances. Mrs C spoke to Barclays about her concerns, and they 
offered her a Resolve loan, totalling £2,900 to clear her overdraft.
In September 2019, Mrs C complained to Barclays because she was unhappy interest was 
being charged on the loan. Mrs C felt Barclays had already made enough money from her 
given the interest that had been applied to her overdraft. She felt Barclays had taken 
advantage of her circumstances, and had they treated her fairly, they wouldnt have applied 
interest to the Resolve loan given what it was needed for.
Barclays looked into Mrs Cs complaint and issued their final response the following month. 
In this, Barclays disagreed theyd unfairly or incorrectly applied interest to Mrs Cs loan. They 
explained the interest rate that applied to the loan was detailed in the terms and conditions, 
and theyd sent her a copy of this in 2014 when the loan was taken out. Their final response 
also acknowledged they hadnt contacted her by a previously agreed date and offered £50 in 
recognition of their mistake. Mrs C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that while Barclays no longer charges interest on Resolve loans, this wasnt the 
case in 2014 when Mrs Cs loan was approved. He was satisfied Mrs Cs loan agreement 
clearly explained the interest rate that applied to her loan and the total amount she needed 
to repay. And as the loan provided Mrs C with a manageable way to repay her debt, he 
didnt think Barclays had treated her unfairly.
As Mrs C disagreed with our investigator, her complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I know this isnt the outcome she 
hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Neither party disputes Mrs C took out the Resolve loan to help manage her finances. 
However, whats in contention is whether Barclays should have applied interest to it.
Its not uncommon for interest to be applied to a loan. And when that happens, Id expect a 
bank to make that clear to its customer and explain what the rate of interest will be charged. 
Barclays sent us a copy of Mrs Cs loan agreement. Ive reviewed this and seen it clearly set 
out:
the amount Mrs C was borrowing;
the term of the loan;
what her monthly repayments would be;
the rate of interest that applied to the loan; and
the total amount Mrs C would repay.
Given the information provided in this document, Im satisfied Barclays did what Id expect to 
ensure Mrs C was fully informed about how much this borrowing would cost her. So, I dont 
consider its reasonable to say Mrs C didnt know she would be charged interest. And if she 
wasnt happy with this, then she could have declined the loan within the 14-day withdrawal 
period set out in the agreement.
I appreciate Mrs C was taking steps to try and manage her finances effectively. However, 
sometimes doing that does involve taking out further borrowing to consolidate debts. When 
that happens, I dont consider its always unusual or unfair for banks who have allowed 
further borrowing for this purpose, to charge interest. When Mrs C took out her Resolve loan 
in 2014, Barclays didnt offer them interest free. So, while Barclays now offers this type of 
loan interest free, I dont consider its fair or appropriate for them to apply their current policy 
to a loan that was approved nearly eight years ago.
Ive taken on board what Mrs C has told us about the amount of interest shed already paid 
towards her overdraft. However, I cant agree that means she was automatically exempt 
from having to pay interest when trying to repay a debt she legitimately owed. Once Mrs C 
started using her overdraft, she was always going to repay more than she borrowed if the 
overdrawn balance wasnt cleared. Ive seen the amount of interest she was being charged 
on her overdraft, and that was significantly more than the amount charged on her 
Resolve loan. This information persuades me the Resolve loan Barclays approved for Mrs C 
was a cheaper option (available at the time) that would help her clear the debt she owed. Its 
for that reason, I dont consider Mrs C has been charged interest unfairly, and I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything further regarding this.
Barclays final response letter offered Mrs C £50 for their failure to get in touch with her, by 
an agreed date, after she raised her complaint. Im aware this amount hasnt been paid to 
Mrs C, but Barclays has confirmed the offer is still available to her. If Mrs C now wishes to 
accept this offer, she should contact Barclays directly.
While I appreciate Mrs Cs strength of feeling, I dont consider her complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, and 
I dont think they need to do anything to settle this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman