DRN-2724471
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2008. The policy was added to 
Mr Cs credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint because:
I think Barclays made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it  although I can understand why he no longer remembers this. Mr C applied for the 
card online, and during that process was asked to choose yes or no for the PPI. 
Theres no suggestion in the screens Ive seen that he had to have it in order to get the 
card. And, as this was an automated process, the PPI would only have been added to 
his account if hes said yes.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But it did have to provide enough clear and unbiased information for him to 
decide that himself. Mr C says Barclays cant have done that as hed have said no to 
the PPI if hed known what the potential benefits were. From what Ive seen, once Mr C 
said he wanted the PPI he was automatically transferred to a page which showed him 
the main benefits and cost. I think he did get enough information at the time. He was 
also making this decision in his own time and with no influence from Barclays.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr C would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about a previous 
complaint he made about PPI. I can only reach a decision based on the circumstances of 
this particular complaint, so this point doesnt change my conclusion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman