DRN-4380241
The complaint
Mr S says that when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, U K Insurance Limited  
(UKI) provided poor service and made a low offer for his written-off car.
What happened
Mr S accepted £6,097 for his car, but he thought that was less than it was worth. He also 
said UKI hadnt responded when he said a car it thought was similar to his had higher 
mileage and was in worse condition. Mr S cited other poor service issues. UKI agreed it 
could have moved his claim on more quickly and that its agent should have collected the car 
sooner. It offered Mr S £200 compensation for poor service, but no more for his car.
One of our investigators said UKIs offer for poor service was reasonable. But she noted that 
it had based its offer on three (not four) of the national trade guides we normally rely on to 
establish a cars likely market value. She thought the valuation from the fourth guide should 
be added to the others  and that the lowest of UKIs three valuations should be 
disregarded, as it was out of line with the others. The average valuation was then £6,225.
Later, the investigator issued a second view, having noted that UKI hadnt used the correct 
mileage when consulting one of the guides. The valuation she found in that guide (£5,024) 
was out of line with UKIs other two valuations and with the one shed added. When it was 
disregarded, the average valuation was £6,304. So she said UKI should pay Mr S the 
difference between that and the £6,097 it had paid him. 
UKI asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision 
along the following lines:
We think using the trade guides is the most reliable way to find a cars likely market 
value. We dont think adverts are reliable as theyre open to negotiation - and often 
small differences between similar cars can make a big difference to their value.
If an insurer can show the figures it got from the trade guides were correct at the time 
it found them, we think its fair for them to rely on those figures. But only if the 
insurer used the right details to get them. Otherwise its fair to use the figures we 
find later, using the correct details, which are often higher.  
As we use four guides, its reasonable for the fourth guide to be taken into account as 
part of the valuation process. UKI doesnt think the lowest valuation should be 
disregarded. I dont think it was an outlier when UKI noted it, but the problem is that 
it was found without using the cars correct mileage. When we checked the guide 
using the right mileage, the valuation was £5,024 rather than £5,699. Thats well out 
of line with the other valuations shown in the guides, so I think its fair to disregard it. 
That leaves the fourth guides valuation (£6,319) plus UKIs correct valuation from 
one of the other guides (£6,034). UKI accepts that the valuation it got from another 
guide was wrong  it should have been £6,180 rather than the £6,560 it quoted. 
Although the error would have worked in Mr Ss favour, I think it should be 
corrected, as UKIs error with the other guide (which didnt work in his favour) has 
also been corrected. I think this approach is in line with our aim of ensuring a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
The three remaining valuations are consistent (£6,319, £6,180, £6,034). Their 
average is £6,177. I think thats likely to be around the right market value for Mr Ss 
car, so I think UKI should pay him a further £80, plus interest
I asked the parties to let me have any comments they wished to make on my provisional 
findings. Mr S didnt respond and UKI accepted them.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI didnt comment on my provisional view, and UKI accepted it, theres no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I require UKI to pay 
Mr S a further £80 for his car, plus interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr S 
a further £80 for his car. It should add interest, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date 
of its first payment for the car to the date of settlement. If UKI thinks tax should be deducted 
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been deducted, so he can reclaim it from 
HMRC as appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman