DRN-2735869
The complaint
Ms D complains that Santander UK Plc allowed her former partner to withdraw £24,000 from 
their joint mortgage savings account without her agreement, even though it had agreed to 
put a block on the account.
What happened
Ms D and her former partner had a flexible offset mortgage and linked savings account with 
Santander. They separated in 2018. Ms D notified Santander of the separation and asked it 
to put a dispute marker on the joint accounts. This would mean that both parties would need 
to consent to any withdrawals or other changes.
Ms D says that in April 2019 she logged into her online banking to find that the savings 
account had a zero balance. She says she then discovered that her former partner had 
arranged with Santander to use funds from the savings account to make the mortgage 
payments as a holiday from making payments direct. Along with withdrawals from the 
account, this had reduced the balance from around £24,000 to zero.
Ms D says that this was the first she became aware of either the mortgage payment holiday 
or the withdrawals from the account. She said Santander should not have allowed this to 
happen because it had agreed to place a dispute marker on the account, and so her 
permission should have been needed for any withdrawals.
Santander upheld Ms Ds complaint. It said it had placed a dispute marker, and this should 
have prevented withdrawals and changes to the mortgage. It offered £250 compensation for 
not giving effect to the marker. And it said it had now revoked online access to the account  
as it should have done from the start.
Ms D didnt accept that. She said that Santander had allowed her life savings to be taken. 
This had caused her great distress  made worse by finding out in the middle of a house 
move, already a stressful time. She had no money and was struggling to feed her children 
whilst her former partner was withdrawing her life savings. She said Santander should 
refund the money that had been taken.
Our investigator thought that there was a dispute between Ms D and her former partner over 
ownership of the funds which Santander couldnt fairly be expected to be involved in. And he 
though the offer of compensation for not implementing the marker correctly was fair.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Ms D has shared with us some sensitive and upsetting information around the breakdown of 
her marriage. I wont set it out in detail here. But in summary she says that there was a long 
history of coercive control and abusive behaviour, which culminated in her former partner 
being arrested (though not charged) with serious offences. Im very sorry to hear of 
everything that shes been through.
By 23 November 2018, Santander accepts, it was on notice of the breakdown of the 
relationship. It had put a dispute marker on the accounts.
A dispute marker is an entry on Santanders systems. Its supposed to override the general 
position that either party can manage a joint account independently. Where theres a 
dispute, any transaction or change will need the joint agreement of both parties. In practice, 
this means that telephone and internet transactions are suspended, and all instructions need 
to be in writing, signed by both parties.
However, Santander has explained that there was an error in how the marker was applied. It 
was supposed to prevent Ms Ds former partner making online withdrawals  but it didnt. 
Ms D says that when they were together her former partner controlled all their finances  
including her salary. She had no access to bank statements or online banking. Mr D left the 
family home in early December 2018.
Santander has given us Ms Ds online account history. It shows that she  or someone using 
her credentials  accessed online banking on 23 and 30 November. There was no further 
access until January. Ms D rang Santander in January 2019 to ask for new online banking 
credentials to be sent to her. Just before this call, the history shows she accessed the online 
page to reset her identification having failed to log on. She successfully logged on to online 
banking on 24 January, and then used it periodically thereafter.
Santander says that this shows that Ms D was aware of the withdrawals made from the 
account before she complained in April. It also points to a call later in the month where she 
asked to make a withdrawal from the account, saying that her former partner had already 
done so.
Ms D says she wasnt aware of the extent of his withdrawals and she had no reason to worry 
about it because she had been reassured the account was frozen  and was further 
reassured when Santander refused her request for a withdrawal; she assumed his had also 
been refused. She says she logged onto online banking at the request of her solicitor who 
wanted to know the current balances for the divorce application. Because her former partner 
had concealed their finances from her, she didnt know what the balance was before  and 
so didnt know at this point that he had made such extensive withdrawals.
Most of the disputed withdrawals happened in December 2018, in the gap between Ms Ds 
online access of the mortgage account. When she did log on, she only viewed the main 
homepage, not the detailed transactions. But there are calls where Ms D was given the 
balance over the phone  on 30 November 2018 and 8 January 2019, either side of the main 
cash withdrawals.
In any case, even if Ms D was aware that her former partner was making withdrawals around 
this time, I dont think this changes the key points  that Santander was on notice of a 
dispute, failed to freeze the account properly, and as a result money was withdrawn by her 
former partner.
The balance of the savings account also reduced because of the mortgage payment holiday. 
Ive listened to the call in which this was set up, on 30 November 2018. 
Ms Ds former partner spoke to Santander. Santander explained how a payment holiday 
would work  no payments would be made, the capital wouldnt reduce, and the interest 
would be transferred from the savings account.Ms D can be clearly heard in the background saying that she does not want a payment 
holiday, she does not consent to it going ahead.
But despite this, and despite the fact that there was already a dispute marker on the account 
by this time, Santanders adviser continues to speak to Ms Ds former partner. The adviser 
makes no mention of Ms Ds clearly audible comments. He merely confirms with her former 
partner that he wants to go ahead with the payment holiday, and puts one in place. 
I dont think this call was handled at all well. Santander knew  and the call handler should 
have known  that there was a dispute between the joint borrowers. Yet it continued to act 
on the instructions of one of them, even though it was clear and obvious that the other was 
objecting during the call.
Santander should have paid attention to what Ms D said. It should not have proceeded in the 
face of her clear objection. I dont think she was treated fairly and reasonably. 
Overall, I think there have been clear failings in this case  in allowing withdrawals from the 
account despite the marker, and in agreeing a payment holiday despite Ms Ds clear 
objection to it.
Whether or not Ms D knew of the withdrawals, they shouldnt have happened. And making 
her aware after the fact does not make them fair.
I therefore need to consider what Santander needs to do to put things right. Its offered £250 
compensation, but Ms D wants the disputed withdrawals  totalling around £24,000 including 
the payment holiday interest  refunded to her.
Ive thought very carefully about this. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to 
refund the withdrawals.
This was a joint account, connected to the mortgage. The mortgage was redeemed when 
the property was sold as part of the divorce settlement. The property was sold in May 2019, 
and Ms D says the divorce was finalised, with financial orders, in October 2019. 
At the time of the withdrawals, the money was in a joint account. This means it was jointly 
and severally owned by Ms D and her former partner. The purpose of freezing it was to 
prevent one party withdrawing it when the other might have a claim on it, pending an 
agreement on what would happen to the funds. That didnt happen, and in other 
circumstances it might be fair to require Santander to refund at least some of the withdrawn 
funds.
But in this case, the divorce and financial settlement happened after the withdrawals. By that 
point the property had been sold and so the court was concerned with the division of joint 
assets  Ms D says the larger share was awarded to her. 
Ms D was legally represented in the divorce and finance proceedings. The court would have 
had the opportunity to consider their assets and the conduct of the parties (including these 
withdrawals) in dealing with the assets when it made financial orders. 
A court has since decided how the assets of Ms D and her former partner were to be divided 
up between them. In those circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to require Santander 
to pay money equivalent to a share of those assets to Ms D in addition to what the court 
awarded her.However, I do think that Santanders actions in this case caused Ms D very substantial 
trouble and upset. At a very difficult time in her life  at the end of an abusive relationship, 
and when she was unable herself to access the joint assets to help pay for the upkeep of 
herself and her children  Santander caused her significant worry about what was happening 
to her finances. It allowed a payment holiday on the mortgage against her express wishes. It 
allowed withdrawals from the joint account even though it was supposed to be frozen. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Santanders offer goes far enough. I think it should increase its 
offer of compensation to £750.
the responses to my provisional decision
Ms D was pleased that her complaint had been upheld and that Santander had been found 
to be at fault. However, she didnt agree with what I said it should do to put matters right.
She said that this had happened at a difficult time, when she was already vulnerable. 
Allowing the withdrawals left her with no financial safety net.
Ms D didnt think £750 was fair compensation for what she had gone through. She was 
already experiencing a very difficult time, and Santanders actions made it worse. 
And she didnt think it was fair that I said Santander didnt need to refund the withdrawals. 
She said her former partner had spent the money, so it wasnt available as an asset to be 
taken into account in the financial resolution of their divorce. 
It said the outcome of the divorce and financial settlement is not linked to what Santander 
did, and the family court cant consider Santanders actions. She should be put back in the 
position she would have been in had Santander not made an error  which means refunding 
the money she has lost. 
Ms D said her former partner deliberately reduced his assets and ran up debts to reduce his 
future maintenance liability. As a result, there was a shortfall following the financial 
proceedings on the amount needed to re-house Ms D and her children. Santanders errors 
contributed to him being able to do this. Had it frozen the funds as it was supposed to have 
done, they could have been considered in the divorce rather than being dissipated by her 
former partner.
Ms D also made suggestions for measures she believes the wider financial services industry 
could take to prevent others being in a similar situation to her in the future.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very conscious of the difficult circumstances Ms D has faced, and the impact this 
complaint has had on her. And I do understand her concerns that shes lost out on the 
money in the account because of Santanders actions.
But I also have to bear in mind that this was a joint account, and a joint mortgage. If the 
payment holidays hadnt been granted, the mortgage would have had to have been paid in 
another way. And I dont think I can fairly say that this was Ms Ds money. It was a joint 
savings account  so at the time it was owned jointly and severally by both Ms D and her 
former partner. If the withdrawals hadnt happened, the money would still have been in the account at the 
time of the financial resolution. But that doesnt mean that all the money would then have 
been awarded to Ms D. Its not possible for me to say what the court would have decided 
had the money still been there. Ms D has lost the opportunity to argue that some or all of the 
money should have been awarded to her.
Had that happened, the court would potentially have awarded some or all of it to her. But its 
not possible for me to know what that proportion would have been.
And in any case, while the withdrawals were permitted by Santander, they were made by her 
former partner. And since then, there has been a legal dispute resolution process during 
which a court has decided how their assets should be divided  and it had the opportunity to 
take into account the conduct of the parties in dealing with their assets during the divorce 
process. 
Ownership of the money that was in the account is a dispute between Ms D and her former 
partner. Thats not a dispute I have the power to resolve  and its a matter thats been 
settled by a court. But Santanders errors in allowing the money to be removed from the 
account made it harder for Ms D to pursue that dispute.  
Putting things right
Im therefore satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to repay to Ms D some or all of 
the money that was in the account. But in recognition of the substantial distress its failure 
caused Ms D  at what was already a very difficult time for her  as well as the additional 
difficulty caused in resolving her financial situation in the divorce, I think £750 is fair 
compensation.
Ms D has made some proposals for wider reform of the banking industry, to prevent 
situations like this happening to other people. Those arent matters I can take forward; my 
role is limited to resolving individual complaints. But Ms D may wish to raise them with the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms D £750 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman