DRN-3704493
The complaint
Mrs R, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. As a result, she was provided 
with lending that wasnt affordable.
 
What happened
Mrs R was advanced 6 home collected loans between August 2019 and November 2020. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 15/08/2019 03/03/2020 33 £10.00
2 £200.00 26/11/2019 11/06/2020 34 £10.00
3 £300.00 03/03/2020 15/09/2020 34 £15.00
4 £200.00 11/06/2020 24/11/2020 34 £10.00
5 £500.00 15/09/2020 sold 34 £25.00
6 £300.00 24/11/2020 sold 34 £15.00
Mrs R had some problems repaying loans 5 and 6 and it appears Morses sold the balances 
of these loans to a third-party collection agency in December 2021. 
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 and 2 were 
running at the same time Mrs Rs weekly commitment to Morses was £20. 
Following Mrs Rs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain why it wasnt 
going to uphold the complaint. Mrs Rs representative then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator initially reviewed the complaint. He didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint about her 
loans. But he did accept that for the later loans further checks ought to have been carried out 
to build a more detailed picture of Mrs Rs finances. He also, finally, didnt think the loans 
looked unsustainable for her in any other way. Overall, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Morses didnt acknowledge or provide any further comments about the proposed outcome. 
Mrs Rs representative disagreed and below are its comments (verbatim)
We have spoken with our client regarding your decision of not upholding any of her 
loans. Our client is not Accepting this decision as she believes she is entitled to 
something and would like this referred to the final Ombudsman to take a look.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Rs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
Mrs R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs R.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
For all of these loans, Morses asked Mrs R to declare her weekly income and her weekly 
expenditure. For these loans she declared her weekly income was between £287 and £313. 
While her weekly expenditure was declared as being between £180 and £206 per week for 
all these loans.  
Based solely on the information Mrs R declared to Morses, it couldve been reasonably 
confident shed be in a position to afford her largest weekly repayment (when loans 5 and 6 
were running at the same time) of £40.Morses has also said for the first loan only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. It is worth saying that there is no 
requirement within the regulations at the time to have carried out a credit search let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what Morses couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to any concerning information that it may have seen. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied it was aware of some 
concerning adverse information.  It knew that Mrs R had seven unsatisfied defaults, but the 
most recent of these was recorded around three years before loan one was granted. In 
addition, it received information that suggested Mrs R was above her credit limit on one or 
more of her accounts and already had significant amounts of outstanding debt. 
These results are, in my mind are concerning enough that it ought to have prompted Morses 
to carry out further checks before not just loan 1, but before all the loans were approved. So, 
I dont think proportionate checks were carried out before it provided Mrs R her loans. 
Given the contents of the credit file as well as what became apparent to Morses during the 
lending relationship, I think, like the adjudicator that there may been reason enough to have 
made further enquiries with Mrs R to establish her actual financial position before any of the 
loans were granted. 
The further checks mightve helped verify what Mrs R had declared and provided and 
revealed whether there was any other information that Morses mightve needed to consider 
about Mrs Rs general financial position given the results of the credit check. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to 
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered 
that Mrs R couldnt afford them. 
As part of the complaint handling process, the Financial Ombudsman Service asked 
Mrs Rs representative to provide copies of her credit file or her bank statement during the 
time these loans were lent. Mrs Rs representative said;
I have spoken with our client and the only thing our client has got is her Account 
number which is [removed] Our client isnt able isnt able (sic) to provide any other 
evidence
Therefore, even if I think Morses ought to have done more, and there is a strong argument 
that it ought to have done given the credit search results. Im not able to say whether these 
further checks wouldve shown it that Mrs R couldnt afford her loan repayments or there was 
something else which suggested these loans were unsustainable for her. And Mrs Rs 
representative has been clear with us  nothing else can or will be sent.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest 
Morses shouldnt have provided these loans to Mrs R, even considering what Mrs R 
declared to Morses for her income and expenditure. I also dont yet think it had reached the 
point where Morses may have felt the loans were unsustainable. 
As this is the case, Im also not upholding Mrs Rs complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman