DRN-4037596
The complaint
Mr B complained he was unsuitably advised in respect of his pension arrangements by 
Quilter Wealth Ltd.
What happened
In June 2014 Mr B met with an adviser from Quilters appointed representative firm. It is not 
in dispute that at this time:
Mr B was married, with no dependents and approaching the age of 55.
He was not working having recently been diagnosed with cancer, but he intended to 
return to work (albeit there was no idea when this might be).
He had a joint mortgage with his wife of £90,000, which they were paying at £600 a 
month, with arrears of £2,000.
He had an outstanding loan of £11,000. This had been enforced by way of a court 
order (repayments having been agreed at £10 a week).
He had a personal pension plan (PPP- referred to as Plan 4) with a provider 
(Provider A) valued at around £18,134 in August 2014.
He had a Group flexible retirement plan (Plan 3) with Provider A valued at around 
£29,679 on the same date.
He was a deferred member of a defined benefit occupational pension scheme with a 
transfer value of £32,133, plus additional voluntary contributions of £11,034.
His wife had deferred benefits in an OPS. 
Mr B was unsure when he would retire but estimated this would be at age 65.
Further meetings and discussions followed the meeting in June 2014. It was initially said a 
suitability and recommendation letter was provided to Mr B on 24 October 2014. I previously 
identified that we have been supplied with four very different versions of this letter all with 
this same date printed and it is unclear which if any might have been provided to Mr B in 
October 2014. Some of the information contained in some of the drafts wasnt known until 
after 24 October 2014. 
It is agreed that having met with the adviser, Mr B was advised in the autumn of 2014, to 
start a self-invested pension plan (SIPP) and to transfer two of his pension arrangements 
(those held with Provider A) into the SIPP to enable him to access the maximum tax-free 
cash available and to start a draw-down facility. No advice was provided on his deferred 
occupational scheme related benefits.
A declaration form for the SIPP was first completed and signed by Mr B in early November 
2014, confirming his agreement for the SIPP provider to pay the adviser an initial fee of 5% 
of the transfer funds from Provider A, together with an ongoing annual adviser fee of 0.5%. A 
letter was sent to Provider A confirming Mr Bs intention to transfer his pension plans into the 
SIPP. 
Various instructions followed from the adviser cancelling one or both of the transfers and 
then others trying to reinstate to the SIPP provider and Provider A. Some of the 
cancellations were linked to the adviser discovering Plan 3 had an entitlement for Mr B to a 
protected tax-free cash sum of 63.61% on the element of the plan relating to an earlier 
transfer-in.
On 21 November 2014 there is an internal email from Provider A saying the adviser had 
changed his mind again after consulting with his compliance department and that all 
transfers were to be cancelled and funds returned.
The SIPP provider went on to ask the adviser to confirm they understood the usual process 
was that funds would be returned directly to the source and wanted to know which 
commitment he wanted to cancel (or both).
On 27 November 2014 the adviser emailed Yes please cancel everything. The SIPP 
provider cancelled everything and marked the SIPP account opened for Mr B, as having 
been opened in error. On 28 November 2014, the SIPP provider emailed the adviser to 
confirm the funds were being returned to source and that Mr Bs account was being 
cancelled.
A number of illustrations apparently sought by the adviser in late November 2014 and early 
December for Mr B were provided to us, including different types of plans and arrangements 
and providers. 
On 2 December 2014 the SIPP provider was informed Mr Bs transfer was now going to be 
moving forward again. The SIPP provider concluded it needed a new instruction from Mr B 
and sent the adviser the details of what was required to set up the SIPP account and go into 
immediate drawdown.
A pension drawdown form was completed and signed by Mr B on 3 December 2014, 
confirming he wanted to access full drawdown to take the maximum tax-free cash sum
available from the transfer funds received from Provider A.
Weve been provided with the notes of a phone call between the SIPP provider and the 
adviser on 12 December 2014. The adviser called to confirm there had been a u-turn and 
they now wanted the funds to remain with the SIPP provider, and the adviser wanted to 
ensure the funds werent returned to Provider A, and for the tax-free cash to be paid out as 
soon as possible.
The adviser let the SIPP provider know that Provider A would be paying Mr B the tax-free 
cash on his Plan 4 and inaccurately referred to this being a drawdown-to-drawdown transfer. 
He said the SIPP provider would need to pay Mr B the tax-free cash for Plan 3.
In fact the tax-free cash sum of £17,628.58 was paid to Mr B directly by Provider A in 
respect of Plan 3, with the residual funds of £13,528.28 being sent to Mr Bs SIPP (received 
by 19 December 2014). The SIPP provider then reviewed if they could apply the transfer as 
it was more than 20% over what was expected. 
As the previous account opened for Mr B had been closed, the adviser was required to open 
a new wrap account. A further sum of £19,093.53 was received by the SIPP provider in 
respect of Plan 4 in early January 2015. Overall the SIPP provider received £32,621.81 in 
funds transferred. The funds were invested in-line with the advice provided. 
Apart from a tax-free cash payment of just under £5,000 paid to Mr B in January 2015, Mr B 
did not begin withdrawing any sums until May 2016. Various sums were then withdrawn as 
gross drawdown income, which was taxable. Around £32,204 was taken by Mr B from his 
SIPP from inception in January 2015 until July 2017, when the SIPP was closed. Regular ongoing advice fees were taken from both accounts held within Mr Bs SIPP, as well 
as provider charges. I previously identified that I was not clear if annual reviews or any other 
meetings and reviews took place, albeit I noted one apparent review in August 2016. In this 
letter there is an error in the information provided as one original investment transfer sum 
was doubled.
On 10 April 2017 the adviser contacted the SIPP provider with instructions from Mr B. Mr B 
wanted to withdraw the maximum available cash but wanted to keep the pension in force to 
transfer future funds into. On 28 April 2017 Mr B contacted the SIPP provider directly as he 
was unhappy his money was not yet in his account. He was unhappy to be told £5,000 
would be paid as he thought the sum ought to be in excess of £6,000. 
The SIPP provider contacted the adviser as requested by Mr B. They told the adviser that if 
a higher sum was required then further sells would need to be completed. The provider said 
they had told Mr B his overall plan value was in excess of £6,000 and suggested this might 
be where Mr B had got this number from. 
In late 29 June 2017 the adviser contacted the SIPP provider as Mr B wanted to close his 
account and have all proceeds paid out. By mid-July 2017 matters had been concluded, all 
funds transferred to Mr B and all accounts had a zero balance and were closed. 
On 23 May 2019, the adviser sent an email to Mr B providing transaction statements for the 
SIPP from inception and detailing the gross withdrawals taken. The email confirms the 
amounts received would have been net of tax, with the exception of the tax-free cash sum. 
The adviser provided the wrong sum when quoting the tax-free cash received from one of 
the original plans. He refers to a sum of around £11,000 when it was £17,628. This error was 
repeated by Quilter in their final response letter to this complaint and in other 
communications.
Complaint
In November 2020 Mr Bs representatives complained to Quilter that Mr B had been 
unsuitably advised in 2014. 
Response from Quilter
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint. They considered the advice had been suitable. Mr Bs 
primary priority had been accessing cash due to his personal circumstances. They said 
drawdown hadnt been available within his existing plans. And Quilter didnt think using 
alternative products with his existing provider had been possible without obtaining financial 
advice and they said this would have had a cost.
Quilter thought matters had been fully discussed and they quoted from what they said had 
been the advice letter Mr B had received dated 24 October 2014. Quilter went on to say the 
advice Mr B received in 2016, although containing several administrative errors, had 
confirmed Mr B was aware of the impact the level of his withdrawals may have on his fund, 
and they said the arrangements remained suitable for Mr B.
Mr Bs complaint whilst at this service
Mr Bs representatives referred his complaint to this service. They said Mr B had suffered a 
financial loss due to being unsuitably advised. Further complaints were made, but it didnt 
appear to us these were all relevant to Mr B. We invited further clarification and submissions 
at various stages.Quilter provided a copy of their file to this service and raised the issue of jurisdiction. We 
asked Quilter for further information but were told we have everything. The information we 
asked for included:
Copy of the full fact find completed by the adviser during his meetings with Mr B. 
Full details, including dates, times, and relevant meeting notes, of all meetings and 
contact between the adviser and Mr B during the advice process in 2014.
Investigators views
An investigator at this service didnt think it was too late for Mr B to complain. He didnt think 
Mr B ought to have been expected to know of his cause for complaint until May 2019, and as 
such his complaint was made within time. In relation to its merits, the investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Since Quilter thought the complaint was made too late and Mr Bs representatives didnt 
agree with the investigators view, the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Jurisdiction decision
I concluded Mr Bs complaint had not been made too late, albeit for different reasons than 
those relied on by the investigator. I indicated I would go on to consider the merits of Mr Bs 
complaint separately. 
Further information provided
After my decision on jurisdiction was issued, we received further information. In summary:
From Quilter:
A spreadsheet that was said to contain the breakdown of all charges and fees paid to 
their adviser. 
Quilter suggested Provider A said they could pay Mr B the tax-free cash but could not 
transfer the remaining funds to a drawdown SIPP with themselves due to the low 
value of the fund. Quilter suggested Provider A did not offer a suitable alternative.
Quilter say that Mr Bs Plan 4 was an old Group Personal Pension (GPP) and 
suitable for transfer to a SIPP if it was over £50,000 in value.
I compared the spreadsheet with a printout from the SIPP provider and previously explained 
I didnt think the spreadsheet was right and why.
Quilter suggest there were irregular sums paid to the adviser. But the SIPP providers 
transaction statement shows regular monthly sums being paid to the adviser from both 
accounts held within the SIPP. I think Quilter also confused Plan 4 with Plan 3 here.
From Mr Bs representatives:
Mr B stresses he was a low-risk investor with no experience of investing.
He was diagnosed with cancer in September 2014. His diagnosis involved the risk 
that if treatment wasnt successful, it would be terminal, and treatment came with a 
risk of recurrence as well as the risk of the loss of a limb. Mr B had emergency 
surgery in October 2014 followed by a long period off work, and he hadnt been able 
to return to his previous job. Mr B didnt have any relevant insurance cover and thus had no income at the time. 
There is also a reference to Mr B having dependent children, [although this isnt what 
was recorded previously].
Mr B says he contacted the adviser as he wanted to access to his funds following his 
cancer diagnosis. Its said Mr B wasnt adequately informed or advised on his 
pension plans. He would have been happy to remain with Provider A so long as he 
was able to withdraw funds from his plans and move to an alternative in-house 
arrangement. 
Its said Mr B wasnt warned about transferring his pensions; [it isnt said what the 
warning ought to have been].
Its said Quilters adviser didnt explain what a SIPP was, and Mr B would not have 
transferred to a scheme where he would be in control of his own investments.
Information from Provider A (provided by Mr Bs representatives):
Mr Bs Plan 4 was a PPP and benefits had been taken in January 2015. This plan 
could not facilitate drawdown so he would have needed to transfer this plan to 
another plan. Provider A offered these types of alternative plans at the time and 
continues to offer them.
Mr Bs Plan 3 was a Group Flexible retirement plan. This plan could not facilitate 
drawdown. Provider A offered plans into which this plan could have been transferred 
if Mr B wanted to take his tax-free cash and start income withdrawals. 
There would have been the options of an Active Money Personal Pension or a SIPP 
with Provider A in late 2014/ early 2015.
Provisional decision
I provided a provisional decision to share my thinking on what I intended to say about the 
merits of Mr Bs complaint and what Quilter must do. 
In summary I indicated that I intended to say that due to Mr Bs very individual personal 
circumstances it was not unsuitable for him to have been advised to crystallise his benefits, 
taking his tax-free cash, and moving the remainder into a drawdown arrangement. However I 
didnt think the adviser had sufficiently understood or considered the alternatives available. I 
set out more about my thinking and what I intended to say ought to be done.
Responses to provisional decision
Mr Bs representatives said Mr B thought he had received inadequate advice and he wasnt 
told enough about the funds involved or the consequences on him as a result of drawing 
benefits at that time. He also feels he has lost out by more than the sum I indicated I was 
intending to say Quilter ought to pay him, this is due to high fees being paid.
Quilter had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision. Due to Mr Bs 
personal circumstances it was not unsuitable for him to have been advised to crystallise his 
benefits and take his tax-free cash, and then move the remainder into a drawdown 
arrangement. However I dont think the adviser sufficiently understood or considered the alternatives available, and as such was not in a position to fully advise Mr B. I have no doubt 
Mr B relied on the adviser as he was entitled to do, particularly when it came to his options 
on accessing funds, and as such he may well have ended up losing out to some degree.
It might be considered somewhat unusual for someone to be suitably advised to access their 
pension benefits at such a young age with only limited pension provision and a low capacity 
for loss. But given Mr Bs very individual circumstances it wasnt unsuitable here. Whilst Mr B 
lost out on the future benefit of his pension arrangements, I consider he had more pressing 
and very real needs at the time that unusually meant it wasnt wrong for him to be advised to 
access funds early. 
Mr B had received a very serious health diagnosis, and although he was undergoing 
treatment, (including emergency surgery around the time of advice) he was unable to work. 
He was in desperate financial difficulty and had arrears on his mortgage, and a loan which 
had already been through court enforcement proceedings. The loan was being repaid at the 
amount of £10 a month. This demonstrates how very limited the court considered his cash 
flow and any ability to pay was. 
Mr B had an extended period away from work and could not return to his original job when 
he did return (whenever that was). Mr B had no other source of income or funds available 
and no health-based insurance to cover this time. I havent been provided with any 
information on any sick pay.
There were sufficiently compelling reasons such as to mean it was not unsuitable for Mr B to 
have taken benefits, at a time when it might usually be expected for a prudent adviser to 
advise against such activity. Indeed I tend to think that even if Mr B had been advised not to 
go ahead, he would have proceeded.
This does not mean the adviser was not required to understand and consider the available 
options and alternatives for Mr B, and to have been in a position to advise on them 
accurately, which is where I think the adviser failed. And as a consequence Mr B may have 
unnecessarily moved into an arrangement that was more expensive for him than it needed to 
have been to meet his objectives at the time.
But I dont think the adviser ought to be liable for the depletion of the SIPP fund based on the 
ongoing withdrawals made by Mr B. I think Mr B understood and additionally was made 
sufficiently aware that withdrawing significant sums via drawdown would decrease the value 
of his remaining fund. By August 2016 Mr B continued to a greater extent to value his 
immediate needs as a priority, and I can understand why that might have been the case for 
him. If Mr B did have any failure when it came to understanding that withdrawals of the size 
that were made would deplete his fund, I dont consider that was due to anything the adviser 
ought to be considered responsible for.
Initial advice
The initial advice for Mr B to access his plans was not unsuitable given his particular 
circumstances. But I am not persuaded the service provided by the adviser demonstrated 
sufficient or adequate consideration or understanding of alternative options (including those 
that may have been cheaper). I dont consider the rationale provided as to why a move from 
Provider A was needed is accurate. Information from Provider A supports my thinking.
There were a substantial number of administrative mistakes and oversights by the adviser 
that have not be explained or identified accurately by Quilter, which give the appearance of 
inadequate service and non-compliance with regulatory requirements.
 There were further errors by the adviser later on, including in communications in 2016 and 
2019 (about fund values and tax-free cash sums). Indeed the whole advisory process has 
the hallmarks of inadequate record keeping, failures to understand the clients existing 
products and a failure to have understood or considered reasonable and potentially cheaper 
options.
I bear in mind Mr B was a particularly vulnerable client. He had been diagnosed with a 
serious health condition and was undergoing treatment with associated life-changing risks. 
He was also financially vulnerable given his liabilities and lack of income. As such he 
required the adviser to take extra care, which I dont think is demonstrated here.
When it comes to the question of whether the adviser understood Mr Bs circumstances and 
whether suitable alternative options were sufficiently considered for Mr B, there is 
information that suggests the adviser didnt do what they ought to have done here.
It is evident the adviser started to advise without knowing enough about Mr Bs plans. It is 
fortunate this was identified during the process and Mr B did not lose out on what was a 
significant level of enhanced tax-free cash from Plan 3. This is not something Id expect to 
have been identified so late in the process. The transfers were cancelled as a consequence, 
and apparently more than once. 
It is difficult to identify an accurate timeline in respect as to how advice was provided and 
when. This ought not to be the case when it comes to regulated advice, especially when it 
has such a significant impact on a very vulnerable client. I see Mr B was receiving 
emergency treatment around the time and might be expected to be less able to review and 
consider advice and instructions.
It is agreed advice was given, and its clear the advice was reviewed a number of times later 
in 2014, but how and when this happened isnt clear. It also isnt clear how Mr B was kept 
informed of this, given the apparent ongoing conversations the adviser must have had with 
Mr B in November and December 2014 when instructions were cancelled and changed. It is 
disappointing that no records of such contact were made or retained. The activity must have 
meant that the service Mr B was being provided with at a personally challenging time, would 
have felt somewhat chaotic at best.
I previously set out a number of examples of how the four drafts of the advice letter dated 24 
October 2014 differed and were wrong. The letters are inconsistent with each other and 
appear to reflect ongoing discussions with compliance and the obtaining of new information 
and understanding. There are different objectives and needs for Mr B captured in drafts as 
well as different information on the types of plans held and other work supposedly 
undertaken.
It isnt possible to say whether Mr B received any, one or all of these letters. The information 
contained in the letters is too different, incomplete, inaccurate and/ or inconsistent. This 
means they have provided limited assistance to my understanding of what happened and 
that I dont consider it reasonable to rely on any version of the letter on its own to reach a 
finding. However there is some content from which I feel able to draw some logical 
conclusions.
All versions of the letter refer to the adviser intending to receive a 5% initial fee. I am not 
clear why the sum in all the letters is put at an initial charge of 5% of an incorrect invested 
sum of £47,814. This was never right and was never updated once the adviser understood 
more about the tax-free sums.The sum transferred into the SIPP was around £32,500. This was after the enhanced tax-
free sum from Plan 3 was paid to Mr B by Provider A, but before the tax-free sum of around 
£4,773 from Plan 4 was paid to Mr B by the SIPP provider. 
Some of the information suggests the adviser received 5% of the tax-free sum from Plan 4, 
which he ought not to have done, based on where the adviser had said the fee would be 
deducted from. 
Quilter now say the adviser received a total of £1,392 (£676 and £715.95). I have looked at 
the printout from the SIPP provider and whilst the sum of £676 appears, it isnt referred to as 
an advisers fee. However these sums were deducted when the account was started. And 
the total sum of £1,392 does reflect the approximate sum due as 5% of the invested sums 
once all tax-free cash was paid to Mr B. So I consider this was an agreed fee, if higher than 
might sometimes be seen.
None of the purported advice letters set out any consideration or investigation into the actual 
charges involved if Mr B took his tax-free cash and moved into a drawdown arrangement 
with Provider A. The only charges comparison appears to be with Mr Bs current plans and 
the different proposals where the percentage of growth required to match benefits is said to 
have been calculated. I dont consider this was an informed or like for like calculation. 
Quilter suggested at one stage Mr Bs funds were too small for this to happen, but this is not 
what the information from Provider A suggests to me and Quilter have not pursued this 
submission.
Based on the information I dont think this services investigator was aware that Provider A 
could have accommodated Mr B taking tax-free cash and then moving the remaining funds 
to drawdown arrangements. Having looked at Provider As website, it appears this can often 
be done without any additional cost, save for ongoing investment fees. As such this would 
appear to me to have been a more cost-efficient option for Mr B, and at the very least ought 
to have been understood and considered by the adviser.
Mr B and the adviser did not consider alternatives available from Provider A, including the 
fees that might have applied. I think its more likely than not that such fees would have been 
less than those Mr B went on to incur, given as a starting point it doesnt appear there would 
have been any initial set up charges to take into account.
Information on Provider As general fund options is considered in all the drafts of the 24 
October 2014 letter. And all versions acknowledge Provider A has a good range which will 
enable Mr Bs attitude to risk to be met.
The only reason on this aspect for explaining why the new SIPP provider is to be preferred, 
refers to it offering ten times as many fund choices. I dont consider a wide range of fund 
choices offered any meaningful benefit to Mr B based on his circumstances and needs.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Provider A wouldnt have been able to offer a 
sufficient and suitable offering for Mr Bs investment needs when moving into drawdown. 
There is nothing to suggest Mr B had any investment interest or experience, a requirement 
for personal management or more esoteric investment options.
Quilter said Mr B would have needed to transfer his existing plans to a new plan in order to 
crystalize and access his benefits. I agree. But I dont think this is unusual or ought to have 
formed any part of the reason why any options offered by Provider A werent considered. 
When a person comes to take benefits their existing pension plan will often come to an end 
and a new plan whether an annuity contract or a drawdown arrangement for example, is 
then set up.There may have needed to be some consideration of how Mr B would pay the advisers fee if 
he remained with Provider A, but Ive already explained why it appears to me there were 
likely to have been alternatives and options to have enabled this. Most significantly here, this 
does not appear to have been considered or discussed with Mr B when it came to his 
options.
Based on what I have seen I dont consider the adviser sufficiently considered whether 
Provider A might offer suitable (and cheaper) alternative options. This means that I think its 
likely Mr B was subject to a higher charging arrangement than he needed to have been, and 
the suitability of available alternatives were not adequately considered. In the event this is 
more likely than not to have occasioned some loss to the overall value of the fund. 
There is nothing that makes me think Mr B suffered any other loss, based on unsuitable 
investments or advice. I accept the investments made within the SIPP drawdown 
arrangement fall within the band of what might be considered appropriate. They cant be 
described as high risk. Mr Bs representatives say Mr B wasnt told enough about the funds 
in which he was invested. I can understand why this might be true, given the way in which 
the advice appears to have been provided and recorded. However I dont consider the 
investments were inherently unsuitable for Mr B. In any event it was not the fund choice that 
cause the fund value to decrease. Mr Bs funds were depleted due to extensive income 
drawdowns over a short period of time.
 
For completeness I looked at Provider As current basic SIPP offering online. It seems to me 
the basic arrangement would have met Mr Bs needs. This has limited charges, only 
potential annual fund management charges and no administration, transaction or switching 
charges. This is available for funds of less than £25,000 with no additional charges in 
drawdown. There are various discounts available against charges and a total of 0.8% a year 
is quoted in an illustration that doesnt appear very different to Mr Bs likely needs. I dont 
know if this product was available at the time, and according to Provider A they had more 
than one available drawdown option, but I am providing it as a general guide to my current 
thinking.
Ongoing reviews and service
I have only seen the most limited information from either party about the extent of ongoing 
contact and reviews.
The information suggests to me there was ongoing contact when it came to Mr B making 
regular withdrawals and there was a review in August 2016. The adviser wrote to Mr B in 
August 2016. Unfortunately there was an administrative error when it came to quoting the 
original fund value (it was inflated by nearly £20,000 in a table). 
This letter also refers to a sum of £2,585.69 having been paid as an initial charge to the 
adviser. I dont know where this sum comes from, save it appears to be around 5% of the 
wrongly quoted fund value. I havent seen information that persuades me this sum was 
actually paid to the adviser, I think this is another administrative error. This continues to 
demonstrate the poor administrative service provided by the adviser when it came to 
reviewing information he provided to clients and knowing his clients. 
However as Ive set out above, Mr B was sufficiently well informed to have had a good idea 
of the size of his fund in drawdown and would have known that withdrawing significant sums 
would impact the overall value, and as happened here, quickly deplete it. Ive seen the 
adviser wrote to Mr B in 2016:You are aware that once your pension is gone its gone but are not unduly concerned by 
this as it is a quality of life at the moment which is important to you.
I havent seen anything that makes me think this wasnt, in general terms, an accurate 
summary of the position.
In terms of the sums being paid to the SIPP provider and the adviser on an ongoing basis for 
ongoing service I have looked at the providers printout, originally provided by the adviser. 
There is nothing that has suggested the information from the SIPP provider has not been 
accurate. 
Generally Mr B paid between £7 to £8 a month to the SIPP provider and £20 to £24 a month 
to the adviser as the total deducted from both accounts within his SIPP from inception until 
June 2016. Then between £4 to £5.50 a month to the SIPP provider and just over £11 to £13 
a month to the adviser until December 2016. After this the approximate monthly sums 
reduced accordingly to around £2.50 and £5 to £7 a month. The sums continued to decrease 
until both accounts were closed in 2017.
 I previously set out that it appeared to me the ongoing service sums paid to the adviser 
appear to be higher than the 0.5% of Mr Bs fund yearly as was set out in Mr Bs terms, all of 
the letters of 24 October 2014 and the instructions to the SIPP provider. 
What Quilter must do
My approach when it comes to considering what Quilter ought to do has taken account of the 
following:
There was a failure to properly understand and consider alternative options, 
particularly the option of remaining with Provider A prior to transfer and the impact 
this was likely to have had on Mr Bs fund.
There was a failure to properly record information and provide appropriate service to 
Mr B, who was paying for a service. This has led to inaccurate information being 
provided to Mr B as well as this service.
It appears the adviser received a significant sum of ongoing fees taking account the 
size of the funds, level of service provided and agreed terms.
But ultimately the advisers overall advice was not unsuitable when it came to 
accessing tax-free cash and moving the remaining sum into drawdown.
Whilst it might have been that Provider A offered a cheaper option for Mr B, I dont have 
sufficient information on this.
 
In considering what is appropriate and proportionate I am not persuaded I need to require 
Quilter to complete a charges-based comparison to establish any loss as I might usually do. 
I dont consider such an exercise necessary. I think it is reasonable and proportionate in the 
very individual circumstances of this case, to consider the benefits of certainty on an award.
The award I am making reflects that Mr B is likely to have suffered some, if limited, loss in 
respect of charges. It also takes into account the initial sum paid to the adviser, which may 
have included a percentage of the tax-free cash, and importantly that the adviser did not do 
things as they ought to have been done when it came to understanding Mr Bs plans and the 
alternatives, providing and recording information and advice. It also reflects that Mr B was 
particularly vulnerable due to his pressing financial need and his serious health position.
 Equally I have reduced the sum I had in mind to take account of the fact I consider the 
adviser ought to have received some remuneration given that ultimately he enabled Mr B to 
do what he wanted, to access his tax-free sum and drawdown funds. This not unsuitable per 
se for the reasons I have provided.
The overall sum Quilter must pay Mr B also includes consideration of a sum for his distress 
and inconvenience.
Putting things right
It is reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case to require Quilter to pay Mr B an 
overall award of £600. This will need to be paid within 28 days of Quilter being informed of 
Mr Bs acceptance of my decision. Interest at 8% simple a year will then be due on any 
outstanding sum until payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Quilter Wealth Ltd. Quilter are 
required to pay Mr B an overall award of £600. This will need to be paid within 28 days of 
Quilter being informed of Mr Bs acceptance of my decision. Interest at 8% simple a year will 
then be due on any outstanding sum until settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman