DRN-3648921
The complaint
Ms A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost when she fell
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Ms A was introduced to a fraudster posing as an investment broker. Between July 
and September 2021, multiple transfers were made to and from her Lloyds account 
into a newly created account in her name with an e-money institution. The incoming 
money included a loan taken out in Ms As name.
In August 2021, concerns were raised with Lloyds about a payment into Ms As 
account. As a result, she was called into branch where the staff contacted the Police. 
Ms A remained unconvinced it was a scam and blocks were lifted from her account. 
In September 2021, having now realised shed been a victim of a scam, she 
contacted Lloyds and raised a complaint that it shouldve done more, and shouldve 
acted sooner, to protect her money. 
Lloyds acknowledged the activity shouldve flagged as unusual, but given the money 
went to an account in her name, there wouldnt have been any concerns. And that 
when an issue was raised with an incoming payment, it followed the Banking 
Protocol. 
Unhappy with its response, Ms A brought her concerns to our service to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
While this was clearly part of a scam, Im persuaded these payments are to be 
regarded as having been authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017. I 
recognise she might not have made them all by herself. But Im satisfied that by 
allowing someone else to access her Lloyds account with the understanding that 
payments could be made, she allowed the fraudster to consent to payments on her 
behalf. 
In saying that, Ive considered her point that she didnt know about the last payment. 
But Ive noted from her conversation with the fraudsters that they seemingly spoke 
about it that day. So Im satisfied she understood what was happening, even if she 
didnt complete the steps herself. 
As Lloyds has a duty to act on her authorised payment instructions without undue 
delay, the starting position is that Ms A, not Lloyds, is liable for them.
Banks are also expected to take measures to protect customers from financial harm. 
And here, Lloyds has accepted it shouldve flagged the payments as unusual. But I 
agree with our investigator that even if it had stepped in sooner, I dont think it 
couldve prevented Ms As loss. 
Ultimately, Ms A wasnt convinced by multiple conversations she had with Lloyds and 
the Police that this was a scam. She submits she wouldve been more receptive to an 
earlier warning. But its unlikely that an earlier warning couldve been as 
comprehensive  the extent of the scam wouldnt have unfolded yet. And from 
looking at her conversations with the fraudster, I note she was coached on how to 
reply to earlier questions from other financial institutions. So I think its likely theyd 
have done the same thing and Ms A wouldnt have heeded a warning even if it came 
sooner. 
Shes also pointed to a leaflet and video she believes Lloyds shouldve shown her 
that wouldve made her realise. But I note that by the time she saw these, she was 
struggling to contact the fraudster and the money shed been promised wasnt 
forthcoming. It seems to me this was the driving force of the spell being broken for 
Ms A. And Im not convinced this information wouldve changed things if shed seen it 
sooner, when conversations about her specific circumstances didnt.
It follows that Im not persuaded an earlier or different intervention wouldve changed 
Ms As mind about dealing with this fraudulent company. So I dont think Lloyds is to 
blame for her losses.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds ought to have done more to recover Ms As 
losses from the beneficiary. But as they went to her an account in her name (and 
then onto the fraudster), there was little point in Lloyds trying to recover funds from 
their own customer. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms A  its clear this has been a horrible 
ordeal for her. But Im not persuaded Lloyds are at fault for failing to stop, or recover, 
her losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman