DRN-2368073
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank unfairly recorded a 
marker at CIFAS the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr M contacted Yorkshire Bank in October 2018 when he found his bank account had been 
frozen. He says he knew nothing about an attempted fraudulent payment of over £9,000 into 
his account. He was told his account would be closed. He later found that Yorkshire Bank 
had registered the CIFAS marker and said that this was affecting his ability to start work.    
Mr M was unhappy then to be told that the marker would only be removed if he admitted a 
part in the fraud. He didnt make any such admission and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Yorkshire Bank says that it received a report of two attempts to pay in fraudulently obtained 
funds - each of over £9,000 - into Mr Ms account. Mr M couldnt provide any explanation for 
this and so it decided to close his account. It considered it was appropriate for the CIFAS 
marker to be added. Yorkshire Bank confirmed that Mr M should never had been told it could 
remove the marker if he said he had been involved.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he considered 
that Mr M knew that the funds were due into his account as he attempted to use it on the day 
of the first payment. And that Yorkshire Bank had acted reasonably in closing the account 
and had grounds to add the marker.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. His representative said that 
there was no concrete evidence he was involved. And that this was having a significant 
effect on his life now. Mr M maintained that he hadnt been approached by anyone and didnt 
agree to provide his account details and allow his account to be used in this way.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October 2020. I said I was not 
intending to uphold it, but I wanted to explain my reasons why. I set out below what I said:
I said I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, 
Yorkshire Bank needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Mr M says that his account was taken over and attempted to be used without his knowledge. 
Yorkshire Bank disagrees and says that he had allowed his account to be used for 
fraudulent activity. I thought the following areas are most relevant in reaching an assessment 
of what most likely happened:
- Mr M opened this account in July 2018. He paid in one cheque for £34 that day. And 
the next entry was a withdrawal of £30 from the account on 6 October 2018. He says 
that he kept his card safely at home in a drawer and didnt carry this with him. He 
didnt report it had been lost and also told our investigator it hadnt been lost or 
stolen.
- On 10 October 2018 there was an attempt to pay in over £9,000 in fraudulent funds 
to his account. His account was blocked as a result that morning. Ive listened to a 
call recording that evening when Mr M had called Yorkshire Bank saying his account 
had been blocked. He said he had tried to take out money and also that he had 
looked online and seen his account had been blocked.
- He later told this service that when he went to take out £30 from his account he 
wasnt able to. And that he saw a message about his account being blocked. He told 
this service he didnt have online banking.
- On 11 October 2018 he phoned Yorkshire Bank again. We dont have a recording of 
that call but its not in dispute that Mr M told it that he knew nothing about the 
payment into his account. He does dispute saying that he was expecting wages of 
£1,000 into his account as he says he wasnt working at the time. Mr M told this 
service that he was being supported by family while at college.
- On 15 October 2018 a further attempt to pay over £9,000 of fraudulent funds into his 
account was made. On that day Mr M went to a branch and took out the remaining 
balance of just over £4 from his account.
- Mr M complained in August 2019 about the CIFAS marker. Yorkshire Bank accepts 
he was wrongly told by branch staff that if he admitted allowing his account to be 
used for fraud the marker would be removed. He didnt in any event do so although a 
member of branch staff believed he looked suspicious when discussing what 
happened. 
Id balanced all the factors here in reaching my provisional decision. There was no clear way 
in which the details for Mr Ms account were compromised. The first record of him using his 
account to withdraw £30 was on 6 October 2018. He didnt report his card lost or stolen. 
There was then only £4 left in his account. But Mr M contacted Yorkshire Bank about his 
account being blocked saying he had tried to withdraw money. Hes given a similar 
explanation to this service. But there was no money due into his account based on what he 
now says. And the actual withdrawal of £30 was made several days earlier. So, I did find it 
unlikely to be a coincidence that he would try and withdraw money and discover his account 
was blocked just at the time when an attempt had been made to pay in fraudulent funds. I 
noted that another attempt was made to pay in funds on 15 October 2018. Mr M then knew 
his account was blocked and was going to be closed. He only expected to be able to 
withdraw the remaining £4 that day. 
To me the most likely explanation is that Mr M had provided his account details to someone 
else to allow it to be used. I thought he also expected there to be at least some funds in the 
account for him on 10 October 2018. And that he called Yorkshire Bank when there wasnt 
and having found that his account was blocked. I said that this all in my view makes him a 
witting participant in the attempted misuse of his account for fraudulent purposes. That 
doesnt mean he necessarily needed to know about the specifics of the attempted payments. 
But I was satisfied its most likely that he had agreed to provide a means for that money to 
be withdrawn or moved on.Yorkshire Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M received fraudulent 
funds into his account. So, Id looked at whether Yorkshire Bank was fair to apply the 
marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance 
says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of 
proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Yorkshire Bank needs to have enough 
information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, 
rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence Yorkshire Bank has provided, I 
said I was satisfied that Yorkshire Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be 
recorded. In coming to this view, Id taken into account the following reasons:
- I was satisfied that Mr M allowed his account to be used for purposes which he 
couldnt have thought would be legitimate.
- Attempts were made to pay in a significant amount of fraudulently obtained money to 
his account and Mr M says he was expecting to be able to withdraw money from his 
account at a time when the only legitimate money remaining was £4.
- Yorkshire Bank had grounds to believe that Mr M was a witting participant in the use 
of his account for fraudulent purposes and so froze and closed the account. 
I knew Mr M will be very disappointed by my assessment and when I said that I currently 
agreed with our investigator about the outcome for the complaint. As Ive given more detail 
about the background for my reasoning Ive issued a provisional decision to allow him to 
provide any more evidence or comments about what Ive said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr M nor Yorkshire Bank made any comments about my provisional decision. As a 
result, I see no basis to depart from my findings there for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman