DRN-3884465
The complaint
Mr K complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank
irresponsibly gave him a loan that he couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the 
business throughout as My Community Bank. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr K applied for a loan with My Community Bank. He was given a loan of 
£5,000 and the monthly repayment was £152.41. 
In 2022, Mr K complained about the unaffordable lending. He also complained that poor 
service by My Community Bank led Mr K to use funds he had wanted to pay his loan 
down with. In its final response letter, the business did not uphold the complaint about 
unaffordable lending. And with reference to the service issue, on 12 August 2022 My 
Community Bank agreed to write off all future interest on the loan as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr K was not satisfied as he would still be liable to repay the remaining capital 
balance over the remaining term of the loan.
Our adjudicator thought the business had been fair to Mr K. Mr K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
My Community Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ks complaint is that My Community Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. 
My Community Bank has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr K provided 
at the time of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search 
in Mr Ks name to assess Mr Ks level of debt at that time and to understand how he had 
been managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, My 
Community Bank decided to agree to the loan of £5,000. So, there was some assessment 
of affordability at the time of the sale. But Im not sure that more searching enquiries would 
have put My Community Bank off providing the credit they did. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit were also relatively modest, especially in comparison to the income that Mr 
K declared and that was confirmed by a payslip. And the credit search done by My 
Community Bank showed that Mr K was managing his other credit well at the time of the 
loan application. When I say this, I mean that Mr Ks management of her existing credit 
showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. And no history of short-
term lending. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision 
was made, Mr K was affording his existing credit. And so, My Community Bank were not 
put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the 
information that My Community Bank had at the time of the lending decision, would have 
led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ks financial situation. 
I have to look at the information that was available to My Community Bank at the time it 
made its lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that 
the information that My Community Bank acquired or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr 
Ks expenditure more closely. And having considered all the submissions made in this 
case, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit My Community Bank 
provided to Mr K was unreasonable. 
So, I do not uphold that part of this complaint.
My Community Bank has already offered redress for the other issue as a goodwill gesture. I 
refer to the service complaint that Mr K offered to pay off the original loan amount in May 
2022. In asking for this to be done quickly Mr K explained that he had personal problems 
that meant the money he had available to repay the loan may not stay in his account for 
long. Mr K was told to expect a call back within two days. No call was made, and Mr K 
called back three working days later to explain that the money was no longer available for 
the repayment of the loan. Mr K wanted the loan to be written off because of this. As a 
gesture of goodwill My Community Bank offered to write-off all future interest on the loan, 
but that Mr K would be liable to repay the remaining capital balance.
My Community Bank didnt do what it said it would do reference the call back. But is that 
enough to mean they should pay a higher redress than the one they have already offered? 
Having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, I dont think it is. I will explain 
why I say that.
Mr K has had the benefit of the funds released by the loan he arranged with My Community 
Bank. It wouldnt generally be reasonable to say that Mr K shouldnt pay the cash price for 
those funds. 
And Mr K still had the ability to return the capital funds to My Community Bank to reduce his 
outstanding balance if he felt he was in danger of spending the money. As Mr K didnt 
decide to do this, I think it would be unfair for me to hold My Community Bank responsible 
for the funds being spent simply because it didnt carry out an agreed call-back.
So, having considered the above, whilst I appreciate Mr K received service that My 
Community Bank thought could have been better, I think the offer to remove future interest 
from Mr Ks loan agreement is a fair outcome in the circumstances. 
So, Im not upholding this aspect of Mr Ks complaint.
I know that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has invested 
time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr K to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. And I want Mr K to know that I was sorry to read of the things he has gone through and continues to experience. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold either aspect of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman