DRN-2741836
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled a claim she 
made for items that were stolen when her home was burgled. 
What happened
Mrs L held a household insurance policy with Lloyds. On 1 November 2019, she informed 
Lloyds she would be travelling abroad and that her home would be unoccupied for an 
extended period. 
An unoccupancy condition was applied to Mrs Ls property and an additional premium was 
charged. Mrs L was sent a letter the same day explaining that, for a theft claim to succeed, 
thered have to be evidence that force and violence had been used to gain entry to her 
home.
Mrs Ls home was burgled between 17 and 18 January 2020. During the burglary around 
£6350 worth of items were stolen  including jewellery and other items of sentimental value. 
As, Mrs L was still aboard at the time she was burgled, a family member who was regularly 
visiting her property informed her of what had happened.
After her home was burgled, Mrs L reported what had happened to the police. She also 
contacted Lloyds to make a claim under her household insurance. It appointed a Personal 
Claims Consultant (PCC) to oversee Mrs Ls claim.
The PCC attended Mrs Ls home on 14 July 2020 and reviewed the report the police had 
written following its investigation. It said it hadnt found any evidence of force being used to 
gain entry to Mrs Ls property. So, Lloyds repudiated Mrs Ls claim as it said it would only 
cover burglary claims where force had been used to gain entry to a policyholders home.
Mrs L was unhappy with this and complained to Lloyds. She felt her claim should have been 
settled as shed notified Lloyds her house would be unoccupied and paid an additional 
premium to ensure her property was covered for theft while she was abroad. She was also 
dissatisfied with the delay shed experienced in finding out her claim had been declined as 
she said her PCC hadnt updated her or passed on this information in a timely manner. 
When Lloyds responded to Mrs Ls complaint it maintained its decision not to settle her 
claim. It explained that, under the terms of her policy, evidence of force being used to gain 
entry was required. And it said the police report did not support that this had happened. So, 
it therefore thought it was applying the terms of her policy fairly. But it acknowledged that 
there had been some delay in the progression of Mrs Ls claim, which was caused by her 
PCC being on annual leave for around three weeks. It accepted that Mrs Ls claim wasnt 
progressed during this period and this constituted poor service. It therefore offered to 
compensate her £75 to reflect the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint, Mrs L referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided and initially recommended upholding this 
complaint. But after Lloyds responded to the investigators view they wrote to Mrs L 
explaining why they werent recommend that this complaint he upheld and the reasons why. 
They werent persuaded force or violence had been used to enter or exit Mrs Ls home. So, 
they didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in repudiating her claim. But Mrs L disagreed and 
asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I can see Mrs L has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions about why she believes Lloyds should meet her claim. I want to assure her that 
Ive read everything shes sent us. I hope Mrs L will understand if I dont address every 
comment shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the 
complaint. 
My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake in deciding Mrs Ls claim, or 
treated her unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.  
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs L. She provided an account of how the 
burglary was discovered and she reported the matter to the police who recorded and 
investigated the crime. 
Im satisfied, as is Lloyds, that Mrs L suffered a genuine burglary. This is bound to have 
caused her considerable distress  her home was entered while she was abroad and a large 
number of personal items of financial and sentimental value were stolen. 
When looking into whether an insurer has handled a claim fairly, our service must consider 
the policy terms and conditions. And we assess whether the insurer has applied those terms 
and conditions fairly and reasonably in the way its dealt with a claim.
The terms of Mrs Ls insurance policy cover her for theft from her home where it is 
unoccupied provided shes informed Lloyds that she will be absent. Here, it is accepted that 
Mrs L notified Lloyds that her home would be unoccupied while she was travelling abroad. 
And it applied an unoccupancy condition, which Mrs L accepts she was made aware of. 
The unoccupancy condition Lloyds applied to Mrs Ls policy restricted how it would settle a 
claim in the event that her home was burgled in her absence. It outlined that:
Theft or attempted theft cover only applies if force and violence is used to enter or exit your 
home.
This restriction isnt unusual. And its reasonable for Lloyds to apply an unoccupancy 
condition where a policyholder absents their property for an extended period as Mrs L did 
here. This is because the risk of damage is higher when a property isnt occupied. And this is 
the reason Mrs Ls premium increased during the time that she was away from her home.
Under the terms of Mrs Ls policy, Lloyds is only required to settle a claim if force and 
violence was used to enter or exit her home. The relevant issue for me to determine here is 
whether force and violence were used. Its for Lloyds to satisfy our service that there was no 
force and violence used.Mrs L said, after her home was burgled, her front door was left open by the intruder and her 
security light was damaged. But Lloyds has told our service that the PCC it appointed didnt 
observe any evidence of force and violence being used to enter or exit Mrs Ls home. It 
stated that the police confirmed the same in its crime report. Mrs L disputes this. So, Ive 
assessed whether there was any evidence to show that intruders gained entry to Mrs Ls 
home using force and violence.
Mrs L has suggested that entry to her property may have been via a key which the intruders 
came by illegally. But I can see she informed told Lloyds that no key was missing or 
unaccounted for and there was no evidence of lock damage. I understand that Mrs Ls 
property had been on the market prior to her travelling abroad. It appears the only people 
with a key to Mrs Ls home were her family and estate agent. And theres no evidence to 
suggest that either of these individuals accessed her home without her authority.
The information obtained from the police confirms that there were no signs of forced entry to 
Mrs Ls property. Despite a search of all rooms being undertaken, the police were unable to 
identify how an intruder had gained entry to, and exited, Mrs Ls property. There were no 
obvious signs around the windows and doors. 
The police thought it was possible that access to Mrs Ls property may have been gained via 
a slipped latch or bump key. But this was a speculative suggestion on the part of the police. 
And I havent seen any evidence demonstrating that this is how access was gained. As our 
investigator explained, even if a bump key had been used, this would require force but it 
wouldnt involve the use of violence. So, the force and violence clause in Mrs Ls policy 
wouldnt be satisfied.
Gaining entry via a slipped latch could involve the use of force and violence. But I havent 
seen enough evidence to demonstrate that this is how the burglary took place. The back 
door is a UPVC door, which has a multi-point locking system. This means that slipping a lock 
is unlikely. I understand that Mrs Ls front door is not a UPVC door. But the locks were 
changed after the event in the interest of security. And Mrs L doesnt have photographs of 
how they looked before they were replaced. So, they cant now be inspected to confirm 
whether entry via the front door was gained via a slipped latch.  
In the overall circumstances of this complaint I havent seen any evidence demonstrating 
that any kind of instrument was used to gain entry to Mrs Ls home. And, having taken 
relevant case law on forcible and violent entry into account, Im not satisfied that theres any 
evidence to show that an intruder gained access to Mrs Ls property using force and 
violence. I therefore think it was fair for Lloyds to repudiate this claim based on the 
unoccupancy condition. It follows that I cant fairly direct it to settle this claim.
Ill turn now to Mrs Ls concerns about how the PCC Lloyds appointed handled her claim 
after it attended her property. 
I can see the PCC attended Mrs Ls home on 14 July 2020. While this was almost six 
months following Mrs L notifying Lloyds of a claim there were unavoidable delays in the 
PCCs visit taking place due to the covid-19 pandemic restrictions. I cant hold Lloyds 
responsible for these restrictions and the way they impacted on the speed at which an 
appointment with the PCC could be arranged.
Mrs L has argued that the PCC should have informed her that her claim would be declined 
following its visit. But I can see that following its visit, the PCC contacted the police as it 
wanted to discuss the circumstances of Mrs Ls burglary. I think it was reasonable for the 
PCC to take this approach before deciding whether to recommend to Lloyds that Mrs Ls claim should be declined. I say this because the police had attended Mrs Ls property. It had 
investigated whether there was evidence of force and violence and written a crime report. 
However, where I think Mrs Ls claim could have been handled and progressed better was 
when the PCC was absent on annual leave. The claim wasnt actioned during the PCCs 
absence and this led to an avoidable delay of around three weeks. If the claim had been 
reallocated while the PCC was on annual leave, Im satisfied the repudiation decision could 
have been made, and communicated to Mrs L, sooner. 
I can see that Lloyds offered to compensate Mrs L £75 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused by this omission. I understand that shes rejected that offer. 
But, like our investigator, Im satisfied this amount fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mrs L 
would have been caused. Its in line with awards our service has made in similar 
circumstances and its what I would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I wont be 
requiring Lloyds to increase the compensation its already offered. If Mrs L would now like to 
accept the £75 Lloyds offered her then she should contact it directly.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to show that 
Lloyds acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman