DRN-3114771
The complaint
 Mr L has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging him 
excessive amounts for his overdrafts when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
 Mr L complained to Santander that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his 
accounts ending 1582 and 3864 when he was in financial difficulty. He said the extra costs 
made his overdrafts more difficult to repay. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as 
Mr L was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr L was experiencing financial difficulty by 24 February 2019 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander disagreed, it says all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts. So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on both Mr Ls 
accounts from 24 February 2019. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr L was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr L hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time on account 
ending 3864. The monthly arranged and unarranged fees applied by Santander were taking 
Mr L beyond his overdraft limit.  Santanders own literature suggests that overdrafts are for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Although account ending 1582 had a modest overdraft of £50 Ive considered both accounts 
as a whole.
So I think that Mr Ls overdraft usage should have prompted Santander to have realised that 
Mr L wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Santander didnt react to Mr Ls overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mr L ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr L fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ls current overdraft balance on accounts ending 1582 and 3864 
so that all interest, fees and charges applied to them from 24 February 2019 are 
removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdrafts once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr L to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ls 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdrafts from 24 February 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr L along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman