DRN-2162891
The complaint
Mr G complained that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a new credit 
card by National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) several years ago.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this case in August 2020, comprehensively setting out 
why I thought the complaint about mis-selling shouldnt be upheld. And I asked both parties 
to provide any further submissions or information about the complaint to me within one 
month. 
My provisional decision should therefore be read in conjunction with this decision, which is 
now final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again carefully, it seems neither party has sent in any new 
information or arguments about the mis-sale, so theres no reason for me to change the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
Im not upholding the mis-sale complaint for the reason previously mentioned, in detail.
However, Mr G has asked me to clarify about the commission element NatWest got from 
selling him the PPI cover. I had previously seen that NatWest had already accepted that he 
should be due some money back for the commission which was over the 50% threshold the 
Financial Conduct Authority has since deemed unfair. 
Our adjudicator has re-contacted NatWest and it has confirmed it hasnt yet paid out this 
amount even though it accepts the money is due. NatWest says Mr G hasnt accepted the 
offer yet, presumably because he wants a final answer about the whole complaint.
So, now that we have final decision NatWest needs to pay this commission element back to 
Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons I have previously outlined I dont uphold Mr Gs mis-sale complaint. And 
dont require National Westminster Bank PLC to pay any compensation in this respect. 
However, National Westminster Bank PLC must pay commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium, with interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman