DRN-2252678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National Westminster Bank Plc made errors in relation to their 
buy-to-let mortgage that meant they were unable to obtain a fixed interest rate deal towards 
the end of their mortgage term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest in November 2008. The term of 
the mortgage was 12 years. The interest rate was initially fixed, with that original interest rate 
deal due to expire on 31 December 2010. After that the rate reverted to a variable rate 
(NatWests buy-to-let variable rate).
In January 2014 Mr and Mrs D switched the mortgage to another fixed interest rate deal. 
This was due to expire on 31 July 2016. At the end of the fixed rate period, the account 
again reverted to a variable rate (which was again NatWests buy-to-let variable rate). The 
overall term of the mortgage was unaffected.
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs D again switched their mortgage to a fixed interest rate deal. 
This deal was due to expire on 31 January 2019. After that the mortgage would revert once 
more to NatWests buy-to-let variable rate. And again, taking out this interest rate deal did 
not affect the overall term of the mortgage.
NatWest says it wrote to Mr and Mrs D in October 2018 to remind them that their fixed 
interest rate was due to expire on 31 January 2019 and the account would move to a 
variable rate. The letter explained, as there would be less than two years left on the term of 
their mortgage when the rate expired, NatWest couldnt offer any alternative fixed rates.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs D requested a five-year extension to their mortgage term and 
a new two-year fixed interest rate. NatWest declined the term extension as Mr and Mrs D did 
not meet their lending criteria. And as a result, it could still not offer a fixed interest rate due 
to the remaining term of the mortgage being too short.
The mortgage reverted to NatWests buy-to-let variable rate at the end of January 2019 and 
remained on that rate until Mr and Mrs D re-mortgaged to another lender in July 2019.
Mr and Mrs D complained to NatWest. They said that the rate NatWest gave them in 
November 2016 should not have run until January 2019 and should instead have ended in 
November 2018. And if it had this wouldve allowed them to take another fixed rate deal in 
November 2018, which wouldve run to the end of their mortgage term. They said that 
NatWest had extended the fixed rate deal to January 2019 dishonestly to prevent them 
taking further fixed rate deals.
NatWest said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had provided Mr and Mrs D 
with clear information about their mortgage and the interest rate deals that theyd applied for 
over the years. And it said all of the interest rate deals had been applied correctly  after Mr 
and Mrs D had requested them.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs D asked our service to look into their complaint. 
They also raised issues with how NatWest had responded to the complaint, including that it 
had initially declined to include in its response confirmation that it was in fact its final 
response. And when it had then done so, it had not changed the date on the letter.
One of our investigators looked into matters. She didnt think the fixed rate deal agreed in 
2016 had been extended. She found it was always due to run until January 2019 when 
agreed and she thought NatWest had provided clear information about that. She thought 
NatWest had acted fairly when considering Mr and Mrs Ds request for a term extension and 
further fixed rate deal, but ultimately these had been outside of its lending criteria. And in 
terms of how the complaint had been handled, she noted it wasnt a requirement that the 
response provided contain the phrase final response. So overall, she didnt think NatWest 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators opinions and asked for their complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have said that they think the end date of the fixed rate they took out in 2016 
was moved without their knowledge so that it expired in January 2019, rather than 
November 2018. Theyve mentioned taking out two-year fixed rates on a rolling basis, with 
the intention that they would coincide with the end of the twelve-year mortgage term.
The evidence Ive seen doesnt show that Mr and Mrs D took fixed rate deals on a rolling 
two-year basis as theyve put it. The mortgage originally had a fixed interest rate deal for a 
period of two years, which expired at the end of December 2010. But they dont appear to 
have taken another fixed rate deal until 2014. This expired in July 2016, but a further deal 
wasnt taken until November 2016. So, I dont think it was the case that a new fixed rate 
deal, running for exactly two years, had been taken sequentially throughout the term of this 
mortgage as theyve said. 
And interest rate deals tend not to run for exactly two years at a time anyway. It is more 
common that fixed rate deals run until a set end date  which is the same for all customers 
that apply for those deals within a set number of weeks. So, for example someone applying 
for a new rate in the first week of the month would have the same end date as someone 
applying at the end of that month. This is common practice by mortgage lenders. Indeed, the 
original interest rate Mr and Mr D took on this mortgage was a two-year fixed, taken in 
November 2008. But the actual expiry date of that deal, as shown in the mortgage offer, was 
31 December 2010  which wasnt exactly two years later. And I dont think NatWest has 
done anything wrong in operating its interest rate products in this way.
Mr and Mrs D took out a fixed interest rate product in November 2016. Ive seen a copy of 
offer document in relation to this new deal. This says that the interest rate deal being taken 
out would run until 31 January 2019. It also sets out that the mortgage was due to end in 
November 2020. I think the information provided about this is clear. I also note that the 
document explains that NatWest had not provided any advice in relation to the new rate.
Mr and Mrs D have said that they have not seen this document before and that the version 
provided is unsigned. The document explains that the new deal could be accepted verbally  
which I think reasonably explains why the copy Ive seen is not signed. And overall, I think it 
is more likely than not that they were provided with this document at the time and agreed to the terms. I say this because, if they had not done so, the mortgage wouldve continued on 
the higher variable rate that was already in place. So, there was no benefit to NatWest to 
make this change, without Mr and Mrs Ds agreement.
So, taking all of the information available into account, I dont think that NatWest has 
changed the end date of the interest rate deal on Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage, taken in 
November 2016, unfairly. The end date of the deal was listed in the offer document, which I 
think is clear and Im satisfied, on balance, Mr and Mrs D saw. And the account appears to 
have been correctly administered in line with that offer. So, I dont think any error was made 
by NatWest in the fixed interest rate running until January 2019.
Ive seen evidence that, in anticipation of this interest rate deal ending, Mr and Mrs D applied 
for a five-year term extension and a new fixed interest rate deal. NatWest has provided 
evidence to show that the request for a term extension was considered and indeed that a 
request was made internally for an exception to be made to its usual policies. But ultimately 
it was declined because Mr and Mrs D did not meet their lending criteria at the time. A 
business lending criteria is a matter of its own commercial judgement and is not something I 
can interfere with or require it to change. And based on what Ive seen I think NatWest acted 
fairly in considering the application but was ultimately entitled to decline it.
As this application was declined, and the remaining term of the mortgage was under two 
years, NatWest explained that it couldnt then agree a further fixed rate, as this was outside 
of its lending policy. Again, this policy is a matter of NatWests commercial judgement. And I 
dont think it has acted unreasonably in applying this policy  particularly given that it has 
provided clear information throughout the term of the mortgage about its end date.
So overall, I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong in terms of how it handled Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage account.
Mr and Mrs D have said they are also unhappy with how their complaint was handled. 
Theyve mentioned the written response from NatWest not confirming this to be its final 
response. The complaint handling rules that businesses, and indeed our service, are 
required to follow are set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. These 
set out the timescales in which a business should respond to a complaint and the steps to 
follow. One of these is that a business should provide a final response, informing customers 
that they can contact our service if they remain unhappy. But it isnt a requirement within the 
rules for that correspondence to contain the words final response. So, I dont think this 
being omitted from the letter originally sent to Mr and Mrs D means that the complaint was 
handled incorrectly, particularly as the letter did explain they could contact our service.
I can see NatWest later provided a further copy of that letter containing the phrase final 
response at Mr and Mrs Ds request. But the date of that follow up letter was not amended. 
This is unfortunate. But this hasnt prevented Mr and Mrs D bringing the complaint to our 
service or impacted our ability to consider it. And I havent seen anything else that suggests 
NatWest acted unfairly in how it handled their concerns in general. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman