DRN-3641915
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their 
travel insurance claim. They were also unhappy with the delays caused in handling the 
claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr M and Miss M took out a standard single trip travel insurance policy on 1 October 2021 
which provided cover for them both and their two young children. Great Lakes was the 
underwriter on the policy. 
Mr M and Miss M travelled to their destination on 8 October 2021 and returned on 12 
October 2021. On the same day they arrived at the destination airport, they lost a childs 
backpack in between leaving the airport, getting into a taxi and reaching their hotel. The 
backpack contained a large sum of cash, various personal items and possessions. Mr M and 
Miss M waited to see if the backpack was returned or found. They said they went to the 
airport and also the taxi rank to check. They said they found difficulty in communicating with 
the taxi rank and the airport as they didnt understand English. 
On 10 October 2021, they went to the local police and reported the backpack and the items 
lost. They received a written report from the police which was in Spanish. Mr M said they 
even contacted the airport on their return to the UK to see if the bag had been found.
Upon their return to the UK, Mr M and Miss M submitted a claim with Great Lakes for all the 
items that were lost in the backpack. They made a claim for around £4,200. Great Lakes 
declined the claim. It said there were discrepancies between the police report and the events 
described by Mr M and Miss M. It said the claim was declined because the money wasnt 
carried on their person and the bag was left unattended when it was lost/stolen. Great Lakes 
also acknowledged that delays were caused in handling the claim. But it said as there were 
discrepancies in the events described, so it took longer to make a decision on the outcome 
of the claim.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr M and Miss M referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. She thought, based on the 
evidence available, Great Lakes hadnt declined their claim unfairly as the events described 
were unclear and it wasnt certain how exactly the bag went missing. The terms and 
conditions on the policy for baggage cover required Mr M and Miss M to take suitable 
precautions and to secure the safety of it. Also, in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of their policy, the money needed to have been on their person. Overall, our investigator said 
it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Great Lakes to decline the claim. 
And, in terms of the delays in the claims process, our investigator said there wasnt evidence 
to suggest Great Lakes purposefully caused delays in processing the claim or caused any 
unnecessary delays. 
Mr M and Miss M disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Mr M and Miss M have said the following:
Its not possible that they havent met the criteria for their claim for lost/stolen 
baggage.
The bag was on their person then taken off to load everything into the taxi. When 
they arrived at the hotel, the bag wasnt there. They went to the police and the airport 
and followed the correct protocol for the claim to be made.
There was a language barrier between the Spanish police officer and Miss M and 
because they had issues with communication, this should be taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr M and Miss Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim to 
decide whether Great Lakes treated them fairly in declining their claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr M and Miss Ms travel insurance 
policy as this forms the basis of their contract with Great Lakes. 
On page 29, it says:
Section E  Baggage and Optional Gadget Cover
What is covered:
1) Lost/stolen or damaged Baggage: We will pay You up to the amount shown in
the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level as shown on Your Policy Certificate),
If, in the course of a Trip, Your Baggage is damaged, stolen, destroyed or lost
(and not recovered)
...
Special conditions relating to claims:

3. You must take suitable precautions to secure the safety of Your Baggage, and
must not leave it unsecured or Unattended or beyond Your reach at any time in a
place to which the public have access.
As the claim was also for money that was lost/stolen, Ive looked at Section F  Personal 
Money and Passport. On page 30, this says:
What is covered:
1) If during a Trip, the Money You are carrying on Your person or You have left in
a locked safety deposit box is lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed, then subject tothe following conditions and exclusions, We will cover You up to an overall
maximum shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level as shown on
Your Policy Certificate).
Based on the above sections in the terms and conditions, there is scope for cover on Mr M 
and Miss Ms policy. 
So, Ive gone on to look at whether those terms and conditions have been applied fairly by 
Great Lakes leading to the claim being excluded. 
I can see Mr M and Miss M reported the lost/stolen bag to the local police within 48 hours 
and also obtained a police report. They provided receipts and proof of purchase for almost 
all the items they say they lost or were stolen, including the bag itself.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided to me which includes the police report, the 
initial claim submission, what Mr M has said and what Miss M has said. 
Having done so, the events that led to the bag going missing do show discrepancies and are 
conflicting. The issue is that its not clear how the bag went missing. And the terms are clear 
on the requirements that needed to have been met and what would be covered as a result. 
Theres a requirement on policyholders to ensure they take suitable precautions to secure 
the safety of the bag. That means, there is an onus on Mr M and Miss M to ensure that they 
do not leave the bag unsecured or unattended. And, in terms of their claim for the money 
they say was lost, this would have needed to be carried on their person. 
As mentioned above, there are differing versions of events on how the bag went missing, 
discrepancies on the items being claimed for over time and the items that went missing 
which were contained in the bag. And, looking at all the items being claimed for, its difficult 
to see how they all fitted into the small childrens backpack. Theres also a difference in the 
amount of money being claimed for from the initial claim submission.
Miss M said in the police report that she placed the backpack on her daughter (who was six 
years old) because she was excited to carry it. And she also goes on to explain the last time 
she remembered seeing the bag was when her daughter carried it while she was shopping 
at a vending machine. And further into the report, Miss M said that she didnt remember if 
the backpack entered the taxi or not and she didnt know what could have happened. Miss M 
also explained in the police report that there was a wallet worth £300 and cash of £2,460, 
her driving licence and her credit card, Mr Ms wallet, £600 cash, his driving licence, and 
credit card. The police report also noted that there were additional items missing as toys and 
assorted clothes. There was no further mention of the driving licences or credit cards, but 
Miss M did confirm to Great Lakes later on, that these were in the bag. During the clam 
process, I can see other items were added such as two pairs of shoes and sunglasses. 
There was a telephone call between Mr M and Great Lakes. Ive listened to the call. In this, 
Mr M said the bag was at the airport and then in the taxi, but he wasnt clear where it went 
missing  just that it went missing. And he later explains the bag was in the taxi. And he said 
the money was left in an envelope in a pocket in the bag. There was no further reference to 
losing their credit card or driving licence except on the police report. Mr M explained that 
while they lost the money, they used their card to pay for meals and taxis for the rest of the 
time they were away. 
While I appreciate, its difficult to recall what happened exactly, I can only look at all the 
evidence thats been made available. With that in mind, Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt 
declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. It simply isnt clear how the bag went missing. For cover to be available and for a claim to be paid, Id have to be satisfied that Mr M and 
Miss M took suitable precautions to ensure the bag wasnt left unsecured or unattended. In 
the circumstances of what happened, Im not persuaded they took suitable precautions so I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to 
accept the claim. 
And in regard to the money they are claiming for, Im not satisfied that they had this on their 
person. So again, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly 
ask Great Lakes to accept this part of the claim either.
Ive noted Mr M and Miss Ms comments and carefully considered these also. 
They say there was a language barrier when they reported the missing bag to the police. 
While they had a translator, the person had broken English. Ive looked at the report. Its 
been translated into English and theres nothing in the report that suggests to me that 
Miss Ms version of events has been incorrectly written down or due to an issue with 
understanding her. Miss M herself has confirmed later to Great Lakes that both their wallets, 
their driving licences and credit cards as well as additions which included missing toys and 
assorted clothing were all in the bag. The police report is detailed enough and was 
completed very soon after the incident. Miss M also said the translator was concerned the 
taxi company may not understand them when they went to ask them about the missing bag, 
so she called the taxi company on their behalf in case of the language barrier. It seems like 
the translator was trying to assist them and not prevent them from potentially making an 
insurance claim or incorrectly writing down Miss Ms version of events. Im satisfied the 
police report consisted of contemporaneous notes of the events that happened at the time. 
Ive thought about the issue of the language barrier, but Ive also considered that it wouldnt 
have been unusual for police reports to be written up and translators to be used in such 
circumstances. I see no reason to disregard the report but to take it as it as evidence as part 
of the claim Mr M and Miss M are making. Miss M has confirmed that many parts of the 
report are correct so theres no reason to think the remaining parts are not.
Mr M and Miss M have said that regardless of how the bag went missing, they have a claim 
under their travel insurance policy for the missing items as theyve done what was required 
of them. That is, they reported the missing bag to the police within 48 hours and have 
receipts and invoices for the missing items. Im afraid however thats not how insurance 
policies work. There is a responsibility on the policyholders to ensure the safe keeping of 
their items and valuables and to take suitable precautions with them when travelling. Theres 
also a duty for them to take reasonable care of their items and belongings and I dont think 
Mr M and Miss M have been able to evidence this in the circumstances here.
And, in terms of the delays in the claims process, Ive also carefully considered this. 
However, I cant see any evidence which suggests that Great Lakes deliberately caused 
delays in the way the claim has been handled.  It has accepted that delays were caused but 
this was because it was ensuring it looked at the claim fairly and had all the evidence to 
make a decision. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think the claim has been declined unfairly or 
unreasonably by Great Lakes. It follows that I dont require Great Lakes to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman