DRN-4164789
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the level of service received from Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited following a claim for a leaking underground pipe under a buildings insurance policy.
Reference to Gresham include their agents. 
What happened
Details of the claim are known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here. In this decision, Ive 
mainly focused on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2022, Gresham appointed contractors to resolve a leaking underground pipe at Mrs Ls 
property. A leak was found on the public highway that needed to be resolve first, then 
Gresham would return to carry out further repairs within the boundary of Mrs Ls property. 
That happened, but despite further visits where Gresham say the leak was fixed, Mrs L 
reported the leak had gotten worse, and Gresham failed to carry out adequate repairs. 
Mrs L says the leak she reported wasnt the leak Gresham fixed  there were two leaks. 
Gresham had told Mrs L after a visit in September 2022 that further leaks were likely the 
result of wear and tear, so that wouldnt be covered. They concluded previous repairs 
completed were adequate. Mrs L then had to employ her own contractor who completed 
repairs at a cost to her. This was reimbursed by the local water authority. 
Mrs L thinks Gresham should reimburse the £200 excess she paid towards the claim. I dont 
think thats fair. The policy sets out a policyholder is required to pay an excess amount 
towards each claim. And even though Mrs L is dissatisfied with the way in which Gresham 
conducted the claim, Im satisfied repairs were carried out under the policy. 
Both leaks required repairing ultimately based on the information available to me. Its not 
entirely clear whether they were related to one another  Gresham didnt consider they were. 
Therefore, if things had gone the way they should have  and Gresham agreed to repair the 
second leak too  its likely Mrs L would have been required to pay a second excess. But 
that wasnt the case here, and Mrs L hasnt suffered a financial loss by arranging her own 
contractor repairs because these costs were reimbursed to her. 
Mrs L says some damage was caused by Gresham in the process of repairs to slabs, a 
glass pane, and a piece of Perspex, amongst other things. Concrete lumps also remained on 
the slabs which couldnt be removed after hardening. Gresham denied their contractors 
caused any damage and say this was all pre-existing. Mrs L provided some photos of 
damage Ive considered. 
While the photos show areas Mrs L is concerned with, these dont show the conditions of 
these areas prior to Greshams contractors attending and starting works. Nor do they 
persuade me to agree Gresham should be held responsible for causing damage to slabs 
and other areas Mrs L is claiming for. 
Mrs L told us she thinks £500 compensation is fair and reasonable given the level of service 
provided to her by Gresham. Our investigator recommended they paid Mrs L £100 given she 
thought they ought to have dealt with the second leak issue  rather than considering it as 
wear and tear without any real basis. All things considered  Im satisfied £100 
compensation is fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. I say this because overall I think 
Gresham could have handled matters better, and with a higher level of customer service.  
Therefore, it follows, Ill be directing Gresham to pay Mrs L £100 compensation. 
I acknowledge a further complaint point Mrs L raised with our Service concerning the length 
of time taken by Gresham to share the claim value information with her. Mrs L will need to 
approach Gresham regarding this matter in the first instance for them to have the opportunity 
to respond to it.  
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs L. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to informally resolve her dispute with Gresham  can do for her. 
Putting things right
Gresham Insurance Company Limited must pay Mrs L £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require 
Gresham Insurance Company Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman