DRN-2804060
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) havent implemented 
instructions given to them by the Financial Ombudsman Service following a prior complaint.
What happened
Mr T has a previous complaint against NatWest about defaulted accounts which was 
investigated by this service. The complaint was upheld in Mr Ts favour and Nationwide were 
given instructions to remove the defaults from Mr Ts credit file and to reopen the accounts 
and arrange suitable repayment plans with Mr T.
However, Mr T wasnt able to arrange a repayment plan with NatWest. And when Mr T 
checked his credit file, he noticed that the defaults hadnt been removed by NatWest as this 
service had instructed that they must. So, Mr T raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr Ts complaint. They explained that the defaults had been removed in 
line with this services instructions, but that Mr T hadnt subsequently made any payments to 
the accounts such that they had defaulted again. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they accepted that the defaults had 
been removed and that the accounts had since defaulted again, so they also didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that NatWest did comply with all of the instructions given by this 
service following the previous complaint, including removing the defaults from Mr Ts 
accounts.
My fellow ombudsman, in their decision letter for the previous complaint, specifically 
explained that if Mr T wasnt able to arrive at a repayment plan with NatWest such that he 
could afford to make repayments on the accounts, that NatWest could follow their standard 
collections and recoveries procedures, including defaulting Mr Ts accounts once again.
Its clear that this is whats happened in this instance. Following the resolution of the 
previous complaint Mr T undertook an income and expenditure assessment with NatWest 
which confirmed that his expenditure was greater than his income and which meant that he 
didnt have any disposable income with which to make repayments against these accounts.
This meant that Mr Ts account re-entered NatWests collections and recoveries process, 
and ultimately defaulted again in March 2020. However, in order to be fair to Mr T, NatWest 
took the decision to backdate the defaults to the original default date of October 2018, so 
that the six-year period for which the defaults would be visible on his credit file ended sooner 
than if theyd recorded the defaults as having taken place in March 2020.
Its understandable then that Mr T, having checked his credit file and seen the defaults 
recorded as having taken place in October 2018, might have believed that NatWest hadnt 
ever removed these defaults from his credit file. However, as explained above, this was not 
the case.
So, its difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and its 
apparent that they did follow the instructions given to them by this service following the prior 
complaint. Unfortunately, Mr T wasnt in the financial position to be able to take advantage of 
the opportunity to make payment arrangements on his account such that the accounts 
wouldnt enter the collections and recoveries process once again, and this resulted in Mr Ts 
accounts defaulting for a second time. And its difficult to consider these later defaults as 
anything other than legitimate.
Mr T has also complained that NatWest updated his address on their systems without his 
permission. But NatWest have explained that this was as a result of returned mail being 
received from the address they previously held on file, which caused them to instruct a 
tracing company to find an address for Mr T. Furthermore, Mr T has acknowledged receipt of 
letters sent to the address that the tracing agent gave to NatWest, and so its difficult for me 
to consider that NatWest have acted unreasonably in this regard.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this time. I hope that 
Mr T can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman