DRN-2867515
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against her without due cause. She feels it should be removed. 
What happened
In May 2019, Clydesdale received an application purportedly from Miss M. They completed 
their usual searches and discovered this was one of eight applications which they say were 
made by Miss M to Clydesdale between September 2015 and May 2019. In each of these 
applications, Miss M said she lived at an address, which Ill refer to as address A. 
Clydesdale said there were inconsistencies and inaccuracies in these applications  
including her name and date of birth. Most notably, they said that she had failed to include 
an address which was linked to adverse credit in her name, which Ill refer to as address B. 
Clydesdale felt that this information had been deliberately omitted in order so Miss M was 
not disadvantaged by it when applying for credit with them. So, they registered a Cifas 
marker against Miss M on the National Fraud Database. Specifically, they recorded a marker 
for application fraud. 
When Miss M came to our service, she explained that she had: 
only ever made one application to Clydesdale in 2017;
made a mistake about the date she moved into her address in this application, but 
had not intended to put an incorrect date in maliciously; 
been suffering with severe mental ill-health, had attempted suicide and was heavily 
medicated at the time of the 2017 application; 
been waiting for a support worker to assist with financial matters, which she never 
got;
recently gone through a relationship breakdown at the time of the 2017 application; 
a former partner who had taken out loans in her name without her knowledge to fund 
his gambling which she had discovered around the time of the 2017 application; and 
lost her home and job due to the marker. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and didnt recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld. She said this because she thought that Clydesdale had met the evidential 
requirements to refer Miss M to Cifas. She said this because she felt that it was most likely 
Miss M had made the numerous applications to Clydesdale and agreed that the 
inconsistencies and inaccuracies contained within these meant that Clydesdale had acted 
fairly in referring Miss M to Cifas for application fraud. As Miss M didnt accept this, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am reaching the same conclusion as our investigator did, and for broadly 
the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The marker that Clydesdale applied is for application fraud. For Clydesdale to record this it is 
expected to demonstrate that it has clear, relevant and rigorous evidence to show that during 
the application process one or more material falsehoods were submitted by Miss M, for the 
purpose of obtaining a benefit. They dont have to show that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed, say, beyond reasonable doubt. But they must demonstrate that there are 
sufficient grounds to believe a financial crime was committed or attempted  mere suspicion 
or concern is not enough. 
I need to start by considering how many applications were likely completed by Miss M. 
Clydesdale have provided evidence of the eight applications which they say Miss M made. In 
their evidence, they have demonstrated that Miss Ms phone number was used in all the 
applications, and that her email address was also used in the most recent application (2019) 
which was when they loaded the Cifas marker. Its not clear from their evidence that her 
email was used in the previous applications  but Miss M did explain that shed changed her 
contact details when she had broken up with her ex-partner in 2017 so Im not clear whether 
she used her current email address before then anyway. But the email address used in the 
2019 application certainly matches one Miss M has used to correspond with our service on. 
Miss M has said this wasnt her mobile number throughout the entire period of the alleged 
applications, and that she had changed it. However, the number which was used in all of the 
applications matches the one she has told us is her current number. This is not to say she 
couldnt have had another number  but its clear she has retained the original number. 
When considering this, along with the other evidence including Miss Ms testimony, on 
balance I think it is most likely that Miss M did make the applications. I say this because: 
When I asked her about the applications, Miss M insisted that she had only made 
one in 2017. I asked her whether she knew who else could have made these 
applications in her name. She explained that she was not saying that her ex-partner 
had made the applications  nor did she provide any explanation for how someone 
known to her could have made these applications. 
I asked Miss M if her ex-partner could have made them  as she had explained that 
he had taken out loans in her name previously without her permission. She explained 
that she was not suggesting it was her ex-partner, and that she had only mentioned 
this to explain the difficult time she was going through in 2017 when she made that 
application. 
Nonetheless, Ive considered whether someone known to her, or an unknown third 
party, could have completed these applications without Miss M knowing. Having 
done so, I dont think this is the most likely explanation here. I say this because it 
seems unlikely that an unknown third party  or indeed someone known to Miss M  
would list her genuine mobile phone number on the applications and her genuine 
email address on the 2019 application. This seems like it would provide an 
unnecessary risk to an unknown third party who was trying to make applications on 
her behalf. Clydesdale would have likely sent correspondence or got in touch over 
the phone number or email address provided  and this could have meant Miss M 
would have been quickly tipped off if someone had managed to obtain credit in her 
name. 
A genuine address of Miss Ms, address A, was used throughout the applications  
so it is unclear how an unknown third party could have benefitted if Miss M had been 
accepted for an account as any card would have been sent to her address. As I have found that I think it is most likely that Miss M made these applications, I need to 
consider whether the inaccuracies and inconsistencies amount to material falsehoods which 
she completed in order to hide her history or poor credit and obtain further credit; or whether 
they were more likely to have been innocent mistakes. 
Ive seen evidence that shows information relating to debts and utility bills in Miss Ms name 
at address B. Ive also seen that she was registered on the electoral roll at this address. This 
covered the period of 2013-2015. So I think it is fair for Clydesdale to suggest she did 
previously live at this address, and that she omitted to declare this on the applications she 
made to them. 
When Miss M likely made the 2019 application, she said she had lived at address C since 
2015  which contradicted with her previous applications made between 2015 and the 2019 
application which listed her address as address A. This prompted them to do further checks, 
which highlighted that she had failed to disclose address B on her applications. These 
checks showed there was adverse information linked to address B in Miss Ms name within 
the five years leading up to the applications. Clydesdale said that as Miss M had omitted to 
tell them about address B, they had concluded that she had intentionally omitted this 
information in an attempt to prevent them from discovering the adverse information which 
could impact her application. They said that whilst the applications also had inconsistencies 
regarding her name and date of birth, the failure to disclose address B was the primary 
reason for referring Miss M to the Cifas. And based on the evidence Ive seen I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to do so. 
Miss M admits that she input an incorrect date relating to when she moved into address A on 
the 2017 application. But she explained that this was a simple error, and that it is unfair for 
her to be referred to Cifas for a simple mistake. She has explained she made this error due 
to the very difficult circumstances she found herself in at the time. I was sorry to read of 
everything that Miss M has been going through, and understand she must have had an 
incredibly difficult time. Ive thought about this very carefully, but I am not persuaded that this 
was a case of a simple mistake  particularly as I have found it was most likely that she 
made all of the applications to Clydesdale. It seems she was likely a resident at address B 
until shortly before the first application due to various debts and utility bills registered there, 
but she failed to disclose this address on her applications. I dont think it is plausible that she 
made a mistake on her applications. Even if I were considering the 2017 application alone, I 
would find it noteworthy that the mistake about when she moved into her address meant she 
had not disclosed an address with adverse credit  so given that I think it is most likely she 
made all eight applications I think it seems implausible that this was an error each time. 
Ultimately, Miss M is responsible for ensuring that she provides correct information on such 
applications. I know she had been expecting a support worker to help her with financial 
matters, that never materialised. But if she felt unable to complete the applications due to the 
difficult circumstances she found herself in, Id have expected her to have asked someone 
for help, or spoken to Clydesdale for help with any applications. So I think Clydesdale have 
met the evidential burden to refer Miss M to Cifas. I am sorry to read about the difficulties 
that being referred to Cifas is causing Miss M, but this isnt enough to require Clydesdale to 
remove the Cifas marker. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman