DRN-1436605
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about unfair account charges on their Barclays Bank UK PLC 
account.
What happened
Mrs J says Barclays has applied unfair charges to the account since 2010 that have caused 
her financial difficulties. She says she would like them refunded and interest added to that 
refund. Mrs J says the charges made her financial position more difficult at was already a 
difficult time for her.
Barclays says the charges have been applied correctly in line with account terms and 
conditions. It says there have been no charges since November 2015 and the charges Mrs J 
complains about, were all unpaid transaction fees caused by returned direct debits. Barclays 
says it doesn't give us permission to look at charges more than six years ago and says it 
dealt with a similar complaint in 2013 and 2015.
Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. 
The investigator didn't think we could look at the charges from over six years ago, which Mr 
and Mrs J agree with. And didn't think there was evidence the charges were applied 
inappropriately or by mistake. The investigator thought Barclays did try and help Mr and Mrs 
J in 2015.
Mr and Mrs J don't accept that view and say the charges are unfair. Mrs J says she was 
unable to work for a year at the time of the charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Barclays account terms and conditions which I think Mr and Mrs J would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. And I'm satisfied that Barclays is entitled to 
charge a fee for an unpaid transaction of £8. I can see that is what has happened here up to 
about November 2015. So I don't think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by making 
the charges in circumstances where there were unpaid direct debits. 
I appreciate Mrs J says the charges were unfair. But following a Supreme Court case in 
2009 it was decided that charges couldn't be challenged on the basis they were too high and 
so unfair. So I can't fairly look at the amount of the charge and decide if it was too high.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. And I'm satisfied Barclays has acted in such a way here. I can see that it 
gave Mr and Mrs J details of organisations that could assist them and has in the past 
refunded charges as a gesture of goodwill. I'm also satisfied that Barclays fairly explained to Mr and Mrs J how it could avoid such charges in the future and that advice appears to have 
been successful.
The investigator has explained that we can only look at the last six years of charges and I 
can see that Mr and Mrs J accept that view. I also make clear that we also can't look at the 
charges that Barclays has previously investigated. In any event I think the charges amount 
to about £200 over about a two year period and were all caused by failed direct debit 
payments. I have explained that I don't think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
making the charges and so it follows I can't order it to refund those charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman