DRN-2384562
The complaint
Mr W complains that Zenith Insurance plc didnt pay enough for his flatbed pickup when he
claimed on his motor trade insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws pickup was stolen so he claimed on his policy. Zenith reviewed the claim and offered
Mr W £1,780, less his excess. Mr W didnt think this was enough and complained. He
provided Zenith adverts for vehicles similar to his which were advertised for around £5,000.
Zenith reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the adverts Mr W provided showed
the retail price, however as Mr W had a trade policy it would only pay him the trade value.
Zenith also said due to the age of Mr Ws pickup only one trade guide could value it. Mr W
didnt agree and brought his complaint here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found
another trade guide which provided a trade value of £2,402 along with adverts showing trade
prices ranging from £1,975-£2,450. Because of this she recommended Zenith increase its
valuation to £2,200.
Mr W didnt agree, he said this was still too low. Zenith also didnt agree, it said the adverts
were from trade sellers and not trade prices. However, Zenith admitted its engineer made a
mistake and said the trade value of Mr Ws pickup is £1,910.40. It said this was because
there were no trade values on the trade guide it had used to value Mr Ws pickup, instead it
took the average of two figures and added VAT, as Mr W isnt VAT registered.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 November 2020 where I said:
Mr Ws policy says in the event his pickup is stolen then Zenith will pay him the trade market
value. It defines trade market value as: The typical cost of replacing your vehicle (in its pre-
incident state) with one of the same or similar make, model, year, mileage and condition
within the motor trade at a price that allows for future resale at a profit, regardless of whether
that is your intention. We use Glasss Guide to set the trade value of the vehicle.
Our service doesnt value vehicles. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is
fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use
relevant trade guides. I find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of
sales prices. Im also satisfied that in this case the trade guides are the fairest way to value
Mr Ws pickup.
Zenith said it could only get the value of Mr Ws pickup from one guide, and that guide didnt
give trade prices. Ive therefore looked at whether Zeniths value is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Ive looked at the three main trade guides and the trade values theyve given are £1,310,
£1,500 and £2,149. As Im able to find Mr Ws pickup on all three trade guides, and they all
give a trade value, Im surprised Zenith said this wasnt possible. Ive therefore looked at
these values to see if Zeniths offer is fair and reasonable.
As the third guide isnt in line with the others it wouldnt be fair to include it, so Ive
discounted it when looking at the value of Mr Ws pickup. The remaining two values also
dont include VAT, so if you add VAT to both of these the highest valuation is £1,800. This is
lower than Zenith has offered. So, I while Im not persuaded by how Zenith got to its
valuation, Im satisfied its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with
the policy terms, because its in line with the valuations given by the trade guides.
Ive also considered the adverts Mr W has provided, but Im not persuaded by them. This is
because theyre retail adverts, and this is a trade policy. So, it wouldnt be fair and
reasonable to use them when valuing his pickup.
Neither Mr W nor Zenith responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr W nor Zenith responded with any further comments, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman