DRN-3478121
The complaint
Miss K has complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have 
dealt with her claim for damage caused by a sewage leak within her home. Miss K is 
represented in her complaint by her daughter, Ms K.
What happened
There have been several businesses involved in Miss Ks claim who have acted on behalf of 
Lloyds. So, in this decision, any reference to Lloyds includes that of any business acting on 
Lloyds behalf.
In October 2020, Miss Ks home was damaged by a sewage leak caused by a blocked 
manhole under her house.  After receiving the claim, Lloyds requested an email with pictures 
of the damage, which Miss Ks son provided on 23 November 2020. Following a number of 
missed calls by both parties, Lloyds contractors finally inspected the property on 
24 December 2020. Lloyds say the repair works were substantively completed in November 
2021.
Ms K says that Lloyds poor handing of the claim, including not progressing it promptly, left 
them in dire conditions for months. She said they had to live in a house that was unsanitary. 
Miss K made two separate complaints to Lloyds about the way the claim was handled. The 
first complaint was addressed in a final response letter dated 12 February 2021. An apology 
was given for some of the delays but Lloyds also noted that some of the delays were due to 
lack of response from Miss K or her representatives. That response appears to have been 
accepted as the complaint wasnt brought to our service. 
However, Ms K felt that unreasonable delays continued to occur, and complained again to 
Lloyds, on behalf of her mother. At the end of April 2021, Lloyds upheld the second 
complaint and paid £250 compensation. Ms K didnt agree the compensation was adequate 
so brought that complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that £250 was sufficient to 
compensate Miss K for any distress or inconvenience caused by Lloyds delays in 
progressing the claim. She also explained that if Miss K wanted our service to consider 
further delays which occurred after the date of the second final response letter, she would 
first need to raise those concerns with Lloyds before referring them to our service.
Ms K didnt accept our investigators view. She said it couldnt be considered fair 
compensation as at that time the work hadnt been finished so the job was still incomplete. 
Ms K requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds case notes indicate that after the first complaint had been resolved, Ms K next 
contacted them on 22 March 2021. At that time, Ms K informed Lloyds that they were still 
waiting for action, and said she felt that nothing had changed since the earlier complaint had 
been resolved. Ms K wasnt happy with Lloyds payment of £250 to resolve that second 
complaint and referred it to our service. 
When considering the complaint, our investigator was of the view that the £250 was 
sufficient compensation for delays in progressing the claim during the six-month period up to 
May 2021. However, as the first period of delay (up to 12 February 2021) was dealt with by 
an apology from Lloyds, in their first final response letter, our investigator ought only to have 
considered the period following that final response, (although that wouldnt have impacted 
the overall outcome she reached). The complaint brought to this service followed the issuing 
of the second final response letter, which covered the period from 13 February 2021 to 
30 April 2021. 
Ms K has helpfully provided a detailed account of how the claim progressed during that 
period which I have thought about carefully. I can see that Ms K felt frustrated at having to 
continually contact the contractors to see when they were going to carry out the next steps. 
And I agree that Lloyds could at times have communicated more proactively with Ms K. 
However, I dont think there were any particularly long delays during that period which would 
have impacted on the overall progress of the claim. Within the relevant period, there seems 
to have been activity related to the claim in most, if not all, of the weeks, although that wasnt 
always promptly communicated by Lloyds. While I accept the claim could have been 
progressed more efficiently at times, and communication about progress could have been 
better, I think Lloyds payment of £250 was sufficient to compensate Miss K for any distress 
and inconvenience that caused her.
Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds payment of £250 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont be asking them to 
do anything further to resolve Miss Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman