DRN-3590255
The complaint
Mr S complains that a claim under his legal expenses insurance with Fairmead Insurance 
Limited was declined.
All references to Fairmead shall include its agents.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his legal expenses insurance. Fairmead sent the claim to its panel 
solicitor (L) for a prospects assessment. L reviewed the evidence that was provided to 
support the claim and issued their legal opinion on 19 October 2020 and confirmed to Mr S 
that his case was not strong enough to meet the reasonable prospects of success test. Mr S 
challenged the legal opinion and L reviewed the claim again on 2 December 2020 but 
maintained their position. Mr S remained unhappy and raised a complaint directly with L. It 
offered him some compensation for delays but didnt agree with all his complaint. It referred 
him to the Legal Ombudsman.
On 30 May 2021 Fairmead received an email from Mr S raising a complaint regarding L's 
assessment. In particular he complained about Ls opinion, he wants Fairmead to pay for a 
second opinion, and Ls delays. He was also unhappy that L had failed to provide 
information he requested and wanted Fairmead to provide it. This information wasnt about 
his claim but about Fairmead and Ls relationship. Fairmead didnt agree with his complaint.
As a resolution, Mr S wants the claim costs covered, he wants the costs of the second legal 
opinion covered, a higher compensation value from L, and lastly for Fairmead to provide 
information he requested under the Freedom of Information Act.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Fairmead had 
unfairly declined the claim because it had relied on Ls opinion. He did note that Mr S could 
get a second opinion from a barrister or a solicitor. He said we couldnt look at a complaint 
about L because their work didnt fall under our jurisdiction. He said Mr S needs to approach 
the Information Commissioners Office regarding the issues relating to the Freedom of 
Information Act request.
Mr S disagreed. He pointed out that the legal opinion was provided by a paralegal. He says 
that there was an unacceptable delay in the handling of his case. It was received by 
Fairmead on 1 July 2020. Fairmead agreed to take his case forward on 12 August 2020 but 
its final response letter was not written until 29 July 2021. He accepts the bulk of the delay 
was caused by L but says Fairmead must be held accountable and responsible for any such 
agents appointed by it. He is also disappointed that the information he requested under the 
Freedom of Information Act has been ignored. He thinks this is a matter of public interest 
and he would expect the Financial Ombudsman to take this matter further in the interest of 
consumers.
The investigator issued a second view. In it he said whilst Mr S was right to state that the 
opinion was issued by a paralegal and our process is that we would normally only accept 
legal opinions from solicitors or barristers but in this case the paralegal's advice was 
approved by the principal associate in charge of the Property Team at L and another very 
experienced solicitor with 16 years post-qualification experience. This means that it was not 
only the paralegal but also the two experienced legal professionals that reviewed the legal 
merits of Mr Ss claim, and they also confirmed that his claim didn't meet the prospect of 
success criteria that his legal expenses policy requires in order for the claim to progress 
further.
The investigator didnt think that Fairmead was responsible for any unreasonable delays. He 
said he was unable to hold it responsible for any delays by L.
He also reiterated that Mr S needed to approach the Information Commissioners Office 
regarding the issues relating to the Freedom of Information Act request as it is not for this 
service to comment whether this was handled fairly or not.
Finally, he explained that Mr S could obtain a second legal opinion himself at his cost. 
Mr S feels that the basis, upon which Fairmead made its decision, is not credible. He says 
that following the legal opinion by the paralegal he insisted a solicitor give a second opinion. 
The solicitor endorsed the paralegals opinion but  Mr S says  he admitted that he had no 
expertise in the field. Mr S says he also mentioned that other colleagues (presumably with 
necessary expertise in the field) had also agreed with the paralegals advice. However, Mr S 
says there was no expressed confirmation of this in writing by those concerned individuals 
themselves. Mr S questions how Fairmead can accept opinions of more than one person in 
the same law firm as being a second opinion
Mr S doesnt think it is right that Fairmead is not held responsible for the delays. He says 
that in their final response of 25 March.2021 supplemented by further correspondence dated 
10 May 2021, L suggested referring the matter of his demand for a second opinion to 
Fairmead and referring the case to Legal Ombudsman if he was unhappy with the decision. 
Fairmead took a further two months to reply to his letter of 30 May 2021, only replying on 
29 July 2021. This delay, he says, resulted in him missing the deadline of six months for 
referring the case to the Legal Ombudsman. And he has just heard that the Legal 
Ombudsman will not investigate his complaint against L because of this delay, a delay he 
says that was caused due to the late reply from Fairmead and was not due to any fault on 
his part.
Mr S questions the intention behind the refusal by Fairmead and L to provide any information 
whatsoever that would uncover the outcome of claims lodged with Fairmead and 
subsequently referred to L. He also questions the investigators decision not to investigate 
the outcome of claims even though he thinks this is undoubtedly a matter of a great public 
interest to the thousands of clients who purchase the add on legal expenses cover policy 
from Fairmead which in turn refers all cases to L and yet refuses to provide figures on the 
outcome of cases. Finally, he questions why the investigator leaves the onus on him for 
obtaining the above information from the Information Commissioners Office concerning the 
outcome of claims lodged with Fairmead and dealt with by L. He feels that their relationship 
is rather cosy and should be investigated.
My provisionally decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
As the investigator explained this service doesnt have jurisdiction to look at a complaint 
about L. Mr S regards L as Fairmeads agent. I dont agree. L is an independent law firm and 
subject to an independent regulator and complaints about it can be referred to a different ombudsman. Nothing in this decision shall therefore be a judgment on the acts or omissions 
of L.
Mr Ss policy provides: We will pay costs as long as the administrator considers that your 
claim has prospects of success
Prospects of success is defined as: In the administrators reasonable opinion it is more likely 
than not that you will recover damages (or other legal remedy) or make a successful 
defence.
I have read the letters from L dated 19 October 2020 and 2 December 2020. Taken together 
I think it wasnt unreasonable of Fairmead to rely on the advice set out in them. Although 
they were written by a paralegal, Fairmead was told they were considered and approved by 
a senior associate. There is nothing in these letters which would cause a lay person to spot 
that they were obviously wrong or mistaken. I am satisfied that in these circumstances it was 
reasonable for Fairmead  which is not a legal expert - to rely on the legal opinion. I 
therefore dont think it was unreasonable for it to decline the claim.
Mr S did, however, say in his letter to Fairmead of 30 May 2021 that the solicitor who 
investigated his complaint about L on Ls behalf had said this matter is outside the area of 
his expertise. Ive looked at the emails from L. L told Mr S that the paralegals advice was 
approved by the principal associate in charge of the property team and a solicitor with 
sixteen years post qualification experience. The person who looked at Mr Ss complaint 
wasnt an expert in the relevant law, but I dont think he had to be. He was looking at the 
process and was taking reassurance from the fact that two senior lawyers had approved the 
advice. Mr S has said that the two lawyers who approved the advice havent done so 
expressly in writing. This may be correct, but I dont think it is unreasonable for Fairmead to 
rely on another lawyer saying in writing that this had happened. I wouldnt expect Fairmead 
to have asked for more information in these circumstances.
Mr S wants an independent opinion. I wouldnt expect Fairmead to pay for such an opinion in 
these circumstances. If Mr S were to obtain an opinion and it said his case did have 
reasonable prospects of success, then I would expect Fairmead to consider it carefully and 
reconsider opening the claim.
Mr S wants me to look at the delays hes experienced. I dont think I can hold Fairmead 
responsible for any of these. It referred his complaint to L within a reasonable time. It 
received a complaint from Mr S on 30 May 2021 and issued a final response on 29 July 
2021. We do expect insurers to support a customer if they are experiencing delays with their 
solicitor. But in this case, I have seen no evidence that Mr S notified Fairmead of any 
concerns about delays until 30 May 2021. We expect businesses to respond to complaints 
within eight weeks. Fairmead issued its final response letter on 29 July 2021 which is only 
just over eight weeks. I cant hold Fairmead responsible for Mr S bringing his complaint to 
the Legal Ombudsman too late. The deadline for bringing that complaint was in September 
2021 so Fairmeads final response letter was issued prior to that and in any event Mr S didnt 
need Fairmeads final response letter before he brought a complaint to the Legal 
Ombudsman.
I can understand why Mr S wants this service to investigate the relationship between 
Fairmead and L which he feels is too cosy. We are here, however, to look at individual 
complaints. We are not a regulator. If Mr S thinks the relationship between Fairmead and L 
needs to be investigated he should contact the relevant regulators.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 provides public access to information held by public 
authorities. Fairmead does not meet the test for being a public authority. The information requested is not something I would expect an insurer to reveal to its customer. I therefore do 
not find that it has done anything wrong in failing to provide information requested under the 
Act.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision. Mr S didnt accept it.
Mr S says that whilst he appreciates that matters relating to L and the Legal Ombudsman 
are outside the remit of this decision, they form the very basis and background of this 
complaint and must not be ignored. He says both Fairmead and L played significant 
contributory roles that resulted in him missing the last date for lodging complaint against L to 
the Legal Ombudsman.
He thinks Fairmead should be responsible for the delays and failings of L, a firm it appointed 
without giving him any choice. He says his contract is with Fairmead not L.
He is unhappy that his complaint about L was rejected by the Legal Ombudsman for being 
made out of time when L and Fairmead took so long to respond to his complaint.
He thinks the relationship between Fairmead, and L needs to be investigated. He also thinks 
that simply because the businesses under investigation will be paying for the ombudsmans 
services, they cannot and must not be allowed to get away with their failures, undue delays 
and misleading advice at the expense of interest of the individuals who have turned to the 
ombudsman as the last resort for justice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision this service doesnt have jurisdiction to look at a 
complaint about L. Nor can I comment on a decision of the Legal Ombudsman. 
We are here to look at individual complaints. We look at the complaint and reach what we 
think to be a fair and reasonable decision in all the circumstances. We are not influenced by 
who pays are fees. 
There is nothing in the documents I have seen relating to this case which gives me cause for 
concern about the relationship between Fairmead and L. L is an independent law firm and 
subject to an independent regulator and ombudsman scheme. I cannot hold Fairmead 
responsible for any delays caused by L.
We do expect insurers to support consumers if the appointed law firms arent responding 
within a reasonable time. Once Mr S did share his concerns with Fairmead, I think it 
responded in a reasonable timeframe. Its response to his complaint wasnt needed before 
Mr S could go to the Legal Ombudsman and was received before the deadline. I dont think 
Fairmead can be held responsible for Mr Ss claim being brought out of time to the Legal 
Ombudsman.
Mr S still has the option to obtain a counsels opinion. Fairmead has said that: If the opinion 
from Counsel is positive then the cost of this would be reimbursed to the consumer. So, for the reasons set out above I do not think it would be fair to uphold this complaint about 
Fairmead.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman