DRN-1651419
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in 2000. Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-
sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs M complained that she could not remember speaking to anyone about PPI. No-one 
discussed the PPI cost and benefits, or the terms and conditions with her. She said she 
could rely on her partner and family for help, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs M disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear on the credit card application form that PPI was an 
optional product and so Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI. I saw on her application 
form that she had chosen to have PPI but declined other offers. So I think she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs M, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, she was eligible to buy PPI, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive already decided she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she said about relying on her 
partner and family for help if she couldnt make her credit card repayments. I understand the 
point she is making, but there was no guarantee that she could still rely on this help at some 
unknown point in the future. So these points dont change my decision.
Due to the current circumstances and postal restrictions in our office, I have sent this 
decision by email to Mrs M and not by letter as requested. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman