DRN-1588625
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. Mr R completed an 
application form for his credit card and the PPI policy was added at the same time. Barclays 
says this was a branch sale and from the application form Ive seen, I think this was the 
case.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R didn't accept the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Rs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Theres a PPI section on the credit card application form which Mr R completed and signed. I 
can see that Mr R has ticked a Yes box in this section to confirm he wanted to take out this 
cover. Theres an equally prominent No box he could have ticked if he hadnt wanted it. 
Mr R says he was told he would have a better chance of getting his card application 
accepted if he took the PPI. Its possible that the member of branch staff he spoke to did 
wrongly mislead him in this way. But Mr Rs memory of the circumstances of this sale 
doesnt appear to be that strong, which is understandable given how long ago it happened. 
So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what happened, based only on 
what Mr R thinks he remembers now. On balance, I think its more likely that Mr R actively 
decided to take the PPI knowing he could choose not to. But I can understand why he may 
not recall this now.
As a branch sale, I think the PPI was recommended to Mr R. This means that Barclays 
needed to ensure the policy was suitable for him. I cant now know what Barclays did to 
ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr R. But from what I know of his circumstances 
at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr R appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 Mr R says he would have been eligible for sick pay and had some savings he could 
fall back on in need.  But Mr R chose to take the PPI, so he seems to have valued 
the protection it gave him if things went wrong. The policy would have paid out for up 
to twelve months if Mr R was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment, and in addition to any other means he had of making his repayments 
at the time. It would also have given him some life cover. So I still think he would 
have thought the extra security the policy gave him was worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr R. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. 
 
Barclays also needed to ensure that Mr R received enough information about the PPI policy 
for him to decide if it met his needs. From what Ive seen, I think the information it gave him 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr R, I dont think better information would have changed his mind 
about taking it.
So I dont think Mr R has lost out by anything Barclays may have done wrong when it sold 
him this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said in response to our adjudicators view, but this 
hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Barclays Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman