DRN-3440138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about their home insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)
Limited for declining a claim they made after they found their roof was leaking.
The claim and complaint have mostly been dealt with by Mr B. So my background and 
findings below will mostly only refer to Mr B.
What happened
In early December 2020, when Mr B went into the loft of the home for decorations, he found 
several leaks in the roof. He called Admirals home emergency team who attended and 
looked in the loft. They reported that storm damage had occurred, requiring a full 
assessment and permanent roof repair  a temporary repair wasnt possible.
Mr B called Admirals buildings and contents claim team. He said the roof might be suffering 
wear and tear and he didnt know when it had been damaged  only that he had found the 
leaks in early December. He was advised to get a report on the damage and to decide if he 
wanted to claim, because damage caused by wear and tear wouldnt be covered  only that 
caused by a one-off storm. 
Mr B obtained a quote which referred to storm damage. It set out costs for, essentially, 
re-roofing the home, the total price being £6,484 (no VAT was detailed). He made a claim.
Admiral sent out an assessor to look at the roof. The assessor reported on the roof 
externally. The report said, amongst other things, that if there had been storm conditions, 
they had merely highlighted, rather than caused, issues with the roof, with no obvious storm 
damage being present. The claim was declined and Mr B, upon gaining sight of the 
assessors report, said it was full of mistakes. He annotated photos taken by the assessor 
which he believed showed storm damage. And he noted that the home emergency team had 
already determined that the roof had been storm damaged. He said insulation had been 
removed from the loft and not replaced.
Admiral wrote to Mr B. It accepted there were some errors in its assessors report, but didnt 
think they affected its overall validity. And it noted that no storm conditions had been present 
around the time Mr B had found the leaks. Regarding the report made by the home 
emergency team, Admiral said that had been created for the purpose of the home 
emergency cover, not to assess a claim under the buildings and contents sections of the 
policy. Admiral said the assessor, based on the report, hadnt gone into the loft, only the 
home emergency team had. It said a separate complaint about the home emergency team 
would have to be made.
Mr B complained to us and our Investigator noted excessive windspeeds occurring in early 
November 2020. So our Investigator initially asked Admiral to review the claim based on 
weather data over a longer period than that Admiral had previously considered. Admiral did 
so but still felt no storm conditions had occurred, and maintained that Mr Bs roof hadnt 
been damaged by a one-off storm event. Mr B obtained a report, the author of which 
described themselves as a consultant with 50 years of experience working in the roofing 
industry. That report compared the assessors and home emergency teams reports. The 
author said the assessors report was flawed not least because they only viewed the roof 
from the ground. He said one cant reasonably assume that tiles or nails will become 
dislodged by anything other than storm conditions. And that to use the phrase wear and 
tear is another misconstruction of the actual truth regarding how cement and tiles work, 
going on to give a detailed explanation of that. He noted that prior to December 2020, there 
had been two storms in the area of the country where Mr Bs home is located and said, in his 
professional opinion, this was the cause of the roof leaking.
Our Investigator reviewed matters. He felt Admiral could reasonably rely on the weather data 
it had found to say there hadnt been a storm. He wasnt persuaded the assessors method 
of inspection meant the report generated couldnt reasonably be relied upon. And he said the 
report provided by Mr B couldnt be considered to give a valid view on the roof damage 
because the roof hadnt been inspected by the reports author. Overall he was persuaded 
that Admiral had fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Regarding the insulation issue he 
said the assessor didnt seem to have gone into the loft and the home emergency teams 
liability for this was yet to be considered. The complaint was not upheld.
Mr B said he was disappointed with the outcome. He said he thought our Investigator must 
have been intimidated by Admiral. Mr B stated that the view of our Investigator lacked 
impartiality and contained untruths, misrepresentations and assumptions. He sent an 
annotated copy of the view with his comments in reply against each paragraph. His 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
Having considered everything, I wasnt minded to uphold it. But my reasons differed to those 
set out by our Investigator. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
A lot has happened during the course of this claim and complaint, many issues and 
concerns have been raised and I know that Mr B disagrees with the majority of what our 
Investigator said. But Ill explain at the outset here that my findings supersede those of our 
Investigator. And the question really at the heart of everything is was Admirals decline of 
Mr and Mrs Bs storm claim for damage caused necessitating the re-roofing of their home, 
fair and reasonable. So my focus will be on answering that question. Consequently, I wont 
detail every single point made by the parties. But I can assure both I have read and 
understood everything. 
our approach to storm complaints
There has been much discussion about whether a storm occurred around the time that Mr B 
found the leaks in the loft, and what the policy requires in that respect. But in determining 
complaints about declined storm claims this service finds it important to ask three questions. 
One is whether or not there was a storm. But we also want to know if the damage claimed 
for is typical of that usually caused by a storm and if a storm was most likely the dominant 
cause of the damage which is the subject of the claim. If the answer to any of those 
questions is no, then the insurers decline of the claim will often be found to be fair and 
reasonable. So, here, unless, I find that the answer to both of the second two questions is 
yes, Im not going to consider the issue of whether or not there was a storm, and what the 
policy requires in that respect, or look at the rights or wrongs of the comments previously 
made by the parties in these respects.  
typical and dominant damage 
In short, I think the answer to both of these questions is no  this is not damage typically 
caused by a storm and a storm was most likely not the dominant cause of this damage. But, in this case, theyre closely related topics. So here, in my findings below, Ill explain my view 
as whole in relation to these issues.
Mr B annotated the photos taken by the assessor to highlight the damage on the roof. That 
is largely missing mortar from ridges tiles. But also some gaps at the corners of overlapping 
tiles, and a couple of tiles with their corners broken off. And the damage isnt restricted to 
one particular area of the roof. Damage like this is, in my view, most commonly caused by 
wear and tear overtime.
Mr B has been critical of Admiral because its policy doesnt define wear and tear. But it 
doesnt need to. An insurance policy cant reasonably define every word used. Rather the 
insurer will give definitions for words and phrases with specific meaning for the policy. Any 
other words used are taken to have their normal every day meaning. Wear and tear is a 
process that many objects suffer from during their normal use. Essentially using any object 
will expose it to stresses which cause it to wear over time. And, whilst the author of Mr Bs 
report was clearly attempting to say that wear and tear does not occur to roofing materials  
he described exactly that process. He said:
In an ideal world the roof may withstand several of these natural phenomenons [storm, gale 
or hurricane], but during any one of these occurrences the cement can be damaged and 
when a slight crack appears caused by wind and rain can start to weaken an area and 
eventually this will start to move the tile and in doing so will start to lift the tile and eventually 
with all this movement will dislodge the cement The storm winds and rain will be then be 
blown under the tile and damages will materialise [sic].
Over time a roof is exposed to the elements. As such, most roofs constructed in this country 
are designed and built to generally withstand the type of weather conditions this country is 
usually subject to. But that doesnt mean that in withstanding those conditions, roofs wont 
suffer any damage. Rather, as explained by the author of Mr Bs report, the roofing materials 
will be affected by the prevailing weather conditions, over time cracks will be caused, until 
the point the materials can no longer hold together and/or withstand the more extreme 
conditions presented during a storm. That doesnt mean that when failure occurs during a 
storm, that the storm caused or was the dominant cause of the damage. In that event it 
means that the storm merely highlighted the wear and tear damage that was already there.  
Admirals assessor found the roof wasnt suffering from any storm damage. I know Mr B has 
concerns about this report. And it clearly could have been completed to a more professional 
standard and ideally should have been free from mistakes such as the age of the house. 
I can understand why Mr B, apart from disagreeing with it in respect of the storm damage, 
found it frustrating. But I dont think those errors, or the way in which the assessor looked at 
the roof, mean Admiral shouldnt reasonably have relied upon his findings. Most insurers 
when assessing roof claims do so from the ground using cameras. In assessing the roof they 
are assessing it against the claim made, they are not completing a full inspection in line with 
any building regulations or guidance. And where a roof is leaking and the insurer is deciding 
whether that is the result of storm damage, taking relatively high-resolution photos from the 
ground is usually sufficient to determine that. Im mindful that Mr B hasnt found other 
damage present that the assessor missed and/or couldnt be seen on the photos he took. 
The photos show damage which, as Ive said is typical of that caused by wear and tear and 
not storm. And the assessor in his report says there is no obvious damage to the roof to 
attribute to storm damage. On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable, based on 
that view, and even given the errors within the report, for Mr Bs claim to be declined. With 
regret for the disappointment I know this will case Mr B, Im not minded to make it accept the 
claim and pay for the house to be re-roofed.home emergency 
Mr B may wonder why the home emergency teams view on storm damage can be 
discounted by Admiral. But, as Admiral explained, that team only viewed the roof from the 
inside. They attended the home after dark and the roof externally couldnt be seen. The 
home emergency cover on the policy, in order to respond to leaking roofs, does require that 
those leaks were caused by storm or bad weather. So I dont think it was fair for Admiral to 
discount the home emergency teams view because they were only assessing a home 
emergency claim and not a storm claim under the buildings and contents damage part of 
the cover. I think the home emergency teams view that the roof had been damaged by 
storm does have to be given some credence. But, in doing so, I note the writer gives no 
reason to support their view that storm damage has occurred. And, as noted, the external 
part of the roof was not assessed. So I dont find his view on storm damage having occurred 
is persuasive. Overall, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to discount this view. Even if it 
did so, at least in part, for the wrong reasons. 
insulation
Mr B said insulation is missing. Admiral says the assessor didnt enter the property, his 
report evidences he only looked at the roof from the outside. It also says that the home 
emergency team were inside  but that team hasnt looked into this issue yet as Mr B 
wouldnt speak to it.
I can understand why Admiral would want to speak to Mr B to investigate this part of his 
complaint. But his not corresponding further with it doesnt reasonably preclude it from 
considering this matter. Admiral is responsible for the home emergency team, as well as its 
assessor, and was made aware of the issue of missing insulation when Mr B complained to 
it. So it should have answered the issue as a whole, but it chose not to. As such it can now 
be considered as a whole by us, and Ive done so. 
Having done so, Ive found that I cant reasonably conclude that Admiral did anything wrong 
in this respect. In short, nothing Ive seen makes me think either of Admirals operatives 
removed insulation from Mr Bs roof/loft. 
The available evidence suggests that the assessor did not go into the loft at Mr and Mrs Bs 
home  his report only refers to the roof externally and none of the photos show the inside of 
the roof. And Mr B hasnt shown photos of the assessor in the loft, or of before and after 
style photos of missing insulation. There is also no comment within Admirals activity file 
either which might lead me to think the assessor did go into the loft. I note Mr B says his 
neighbour can affirm that the assessor went into the home, and some photos of the roof 
were taken from the rear, which Mr B says can only be accessed through the house. But 
even accepting both of those points as fact, neither show the assessor went into the loft. On 
balance then, I dont think its likely the assessor went into the loft and removed insulation to 
assess the inside of the roof. 
The home emergency team only looked in the loft. But its report doesnt suggest, either in 
words or by photos, that they took down insulation. And when Mr B called Admiral to make 
the claim, he also did not say, at that time, that the home emergency team had taken down 
and not replaced insulation. Although he did indicate he had been back in the loft since their 
visit and Id have expected him, had the insulation been missing at that time, to have noticed 
that and drawn it to Admirals attention.
I think Mr B obviously believes an operative of Admirals removed insulation. Whilst I dont 
doubt his belief, that alone is not enough for me think that is most likely what happened. Not 
in the absence of any other evidence that even points to that as a possibility.Admiral didnt respond. Mr B said he was disgusted with my decision, he felt I hadnt 
reviewed the full history of events. Mr B said I had accepted certain comments of Admiral 
without knowing the relevant law. He said it was particularly disappointing as I was making a 
decision about health and safety issues and I should only have done so having contacted an 
appropriate expert/expert body. Mr B further said he wanted to know if Admirals assessor 
was appropriately qualified and to what standard  he will only be satisfied that Admirals 
assessor was able to make the assessment he did if he is shown that persons qualification 
certificates. Mr B provided an annotated copy of my provisional decision, setting out 
responses against most paragraphs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs general comments
I can assure Mr B that, in assessing his complaint, I carefully considered all of the available 
evidence and took on board both his views and those expressed by Admiral. 
My findings set out detail about what Ive accepted and why. Im not persuaded that anything 
Ive said is in direct contradiction to any relevant law. But, in any event, whilst I have regard 
to the law, it is my job to assess the complaint in order to come to a fair and reasonable 
decision. Which is what I have done. 
My decision is not about health and safety  it is about the claim made and Admirals decline 
of it. I can assure Mr B that if I had felt it was necessary to approach an independent body or 
expert for advice then I would have done  I dont think that was necessary here. In short, an 
independent roofing body or expert could provide detail, if I needed it, about the correct 
method for completing a full roof inspection, in line with industry rules and guidance. But my 
comments regarding Admirals assessment of the roof are about whether doing so from the 
ground was a reasonable way for Admiral to gather data in order to make a fair decision on 
this storm claim.
I can assure Mr B that I did ask Admiral about its assessors experience and qualifications. 
And I did take the answer it gave to me into account when making my provisional decision. 
In essence, Im not persuaded that Admirals assessor was any more suitably qualified to 
determine the cause of damage than Mr Bs own expert was. And Mr B will note that the 
majority of my findings were based on evidence from his own expert. Had the evidence from 
Mr Bs expert been in his favour, then the outcome of this complaint may well have been 
different. I know Mr B wants to see, not just the details of those qualification but the actual 
certificates owned/gained by the individual in question, so he can be satisfied by the findings 
of the assessor. But that type of personal detail isnt something this service would share with 
a complainant. It is something we would treat as confidential. In any event, with this decision 
the matter has moved on  Mr B asked this service to determine his complaint about 
Admirals decline of the roof (which was largely based on its assessors findings) and Ive 
done that. Ive found that, based on all of the evidence available, including that submitted by 
Mr B, Admirals decline was fair and reasonable.
annotations
Mr B made a number of comments against my background section of the provisional 
decision. In summary he thinks Ive accepted things that Admiral said without question, 
misrepresented and/or misunderstood what really happened and failed to correctly detail exactly what did happen. Whilst I understand Mr Bs frustration with some of the things Ive 
said in the background of my provisional decision, and Ive considered his concerns 
carefully, Im satisfied by the content I used, and Ive re-used it again here. 
It may help if I explain that the background is a summary of what happened that takes into 
account the views and statements of both parties, but which has also been created by me 
having considered all of the available evidence. For example, when I said:
He was advised to get a report on the damage and to decide if he wanted to claim, because 
damage caused by wear and tear wouldnt be covered  only that caused by a one-off 
storm.
I did so having listened to the phone call. I accept that Mr B remembers things slightly 
differently  I was advised to obtain a quote for a new roof as Admiral was so busy and it 
would be quicker to obtain one on my own. But Im satisfied that my summary is accurate. 
And by way of another example; when I noted Admiral said there was no storm, I was merely 
recounting that Admiral had said just that. I wasnt saying whether it was right or wrong in 
that view. So hopefully Mr B can now understand that the background sets the scene for the 
findings section of my decision where I look more closely at the arguments put forwards by 
both parties, ultimately making a decision on the complaint at hand.
Into my findings; Mr B said I clearly was not being impartial and I had obviously not 
understood the complaint as I had referred to the re-roofing of his home. He said he had 
never asked for that, only that his home was made weather tight again as it had been when 
he took out the policy. I know Mr B wants his home weather tight again  but the claim made 
to Admiral was based on the cost to re-roof his home. I know Mr B believes that is what he 
was told to do, but that is really not relevant. The situation at hand, regardless of how Mr B 
and Admiral came to be there, is that Mr B has submitted an estimate for re-roofing his 
home, which he has asked Admiral to pay as a claim on his policy, and which Admiral has 
refused to do. So I have to decide whether that was fair and reasonable or not.
Mr B said he thinks I was wrong to say there was no storm. But I did not say whether there 
was a storm or not. In fact I specifically explained that I was not going to answer the first of 
our usual three storms questions  was there a storm  not unless I found the answer to 
the other two questions was yes. And I found the answer to the other two questions was 
no, explaining in detail why that was.
Mr B said that all terms must be defined and I must be inexperienced to think tiles can be 
damaged by wear and tear. I can assure Mr B that I am experienced in assessing storm 
claim complaints and that not every term used in an insurance policy has to be defined. That 
said if Admiral wishes to rely on any exclusion to cover (such as that for wear and tear) it has 
to justify doing so. And that is the issue at the heart of this complaint  was Admiral justified 
in declining Mr Bs claim.
I see that Mr B believes that only items with moving parts are subject to wear and tear. But 
he is simply wrong in this respect  any item or material that has any external force exerted 
upon it bears that strain and, overtime, is worn by it. How it is worn and to what degree, as 
well as how long it will take for that item to degrade will depend upon a variety of factors. But 
just because an item is stationary does not mean it wont wear.  
Mr B said that insurers only check roofs from the ground in order to save money. He 
maintained that a full roof inspection requires the assessor to climb onto the roof and it is 
only with this type of assessment that a definite conclusion about the cause of damage can 
be made. I think it is quite likely that insurers work in this way to reduce costs. There is nothing wrong in that, as long as in so doing a fair and reasonable decision is made about 
the claim. And a fair and reasonable decision does not have to be based on definite facts. 
Rather an insurer only has to be satisfied and justify its actions on the basis of the balance of 
probabilities. That is what is most likely to have happened or to have caused the damage in 
question.
I know Mr B feels that the errors in Admirals report, in a court of law, would make that report 
invalid. He may be right. But this service is an alternative to the courts. In my view, on this 
occasion, the report is not made invalid or without worth because of the mistakes in it. 
Although they clearly should have been avoided and Admiral/its agent should have taken 
better care when compiling it to ensure a professional and correct report was created.
Mr B said that, for the final time, he wanted to explain that the home emergency team did not 
take the insulation down, Admirals assessor did. And he said he is tired of my making out he 
and his wife are liars. I know Mr Bs argument was that the assessor took down the 
insulation. But Admiral denied that and said it could only have been the home emergency 
team that did so. But then no full answer or assessment of that possibility took place. As 
I said, Admiral was wrong for not doing that, it should always have dealt with this as one 
issue. But because it hadnt done so by the time the complaint came to me, and in order to 
fully answer this issue, I had to consider the possibility proposed by Admiral that the home 
emergency team were the only ones who could possibly have removed insulation. 
I also understand that Mr B thinks my use of the phrase removed insulation is inaccurate. 
He says that the insulation was not removed, merely pulled away so the roof could be seen. 
Whichever description is used though, the difficulty for Mr B is that the available evidence 
does not support his testimony. I know that, to Mr B, this feels like I am calling him a liar. 
I can assure him that is not the case. But it is my job to assess the available evidence in 
order to come to a conclusion about what most likely happened. Mr Bs testimony is part of 
that evidence and Ive given it consideration. But I explained provisionally why his word 
alone on this is not enough for me to think Admiral is reasonably responsible for having 
moved insulation which it must now fairly return to the position it was in before.
in summary
I understand Mr B is frustrated and upset by my provisional decision. I can assure him I have 
considered everything he has said and all the evidence provided by both sides. Ive 
responded above to the key issues he has set out in reply. Having done so, I remain of the 
view stated provisionally. As such, my provisional findings, along with my findings set out in 
response to Mr Bs reply, are now those of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman