DRN-2283047
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that (the company now known as) Fairmead Insurance Limited has 
declined her home insurance claim for fire damage and voided her policy back to its start 
date.
 
What happened
In October 2019, Ms B suffered a fire at her property, caused by a gas explosion in the 
attached neighbours property. She wasnt there at the time and heard about it through 
neighbours. She reported a claim to Fairmead. After reviewing the claim, Fairmead became 
concerned that the property wasnt regularly occupied and that Ms B lived elsewhere. It 
appointed a firm of special investigators to interview Ms B and to review the situation. After 
the interview that firm reported back to Fairmead that Ms B had disclosed that she hadnt 
really lived at the property since at least 2017. This was when she had bought another 
property, some 140 miles away. They reported that she generally lived at that property and 
was in employment in the local area. The risk address wasnt furnished and Ms B visited 
from time to time. She slept on a folded up duvet in the floor when she stayed there. But she 
disclosed that she had been driven out by the behaviour of the next door neighbour.
Ms B had taken out the policy with Fairmead in February 2018. At the time she disclosed 
that the property was her main residence, regularly occupied and that it was only unoccupied 
for periods of 1-30 days. She said she stayed there roughly once a week, but wasnt aware 
that she needed to tell the insurers of this fact. She still regarded the property as her home, 
and her main residence.
Fairmead advised that it considered the property to be unoccupied and not lived in within the 
terms of the policy. As it wouldnt have offered a policy to Ms B had it known of the 
circumstances of her occupation of the property it voided the policy back to its start date 
which meant it is treated as if it never existed. It refunded the premiums to Ms B.
Ms B referred her complaints to this service. She was particularly concerned about the way 
she was treated by Fairmeads investigator and was upset that she was being accused of 
fraud and dishonesty.
Our investigator thought that Fairmead had acted reasonably. This was on the basis that 
Ms B had said the property was her main residence and that it was regularly occupied when 
she took out and renewed the policy.
Ms B didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
voidance of the policy
Fairmead has voided Ms Bs policy back to the date it started, in February 2018. The effect 
of this is to treat the policy as if it never existed, and any claims under it cant be made. This 
means that Ms Bs claim for fire damage wont be paid. It also means that, if asked, she 
must disclose that policy voidance in any future application for insurance.
Fairmead is only entitled to do that if it can show that the provisions in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act, 2012 (CIDRA) apply. That act says that, 
when a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy, they must take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. If they do make a misrepresentation, then if the insurer 
wouldnt have agreed to issue (or renew) the policy but for that misrepresentation then it is 
entitled to void the policy as has happened here.
Its difficult for me to see exactly what the nature of Ms Bs occupation of the property was. 
On the one hand she says she regarded it as her home (at least up until 2017) but on the 
other hand it seems she bought it (in about 2005) because it was in an area where relatives 
lived, and she had let the property out to tenants from time to time. But I think its clear that 
from 2017, because of the neighbours conduct Ms B wasnt living there, especially as she 
bought a new property 140 miles way and had employment there. Also the property wasnt 
furnished apart from a couple of items. There was no bed. Ms B said she stayed there 
roughly once a week.
When Ms B purchased the policy in 2018 she was sent a statement of fact which said: This 
confirms the information you provided to us which we use to determine whether to offer you 
a policy and your premium. It set out a list of questions and answers, among which were the 
following:
Question asked:               Your answer
Is the property insured (including its outbuildings):
your main residence, second home, holiday home or an investment property? Main     
                                                                                                                            residence
normally occupied at night or during the day (e.g. if you work on a night shift)? Regularly  
                                                                                                                             occupied
How many days in a row is the property likely to be left unoccupied? 1-30 days in a row
I dont think Ms B has shown that the property was her main residence, nor that the property 
was regularly occupied. And the property was essentially unfurnished. I appreciate that she 
regarded it as her main residence but I dont think it was. The ability to leave the property 
unoccupied for up to 30 days is a common provision in such policies to allow for holidays, it 
doesnt mean the property can be left unoccupied for multiple periods.
I believe Ms B says she didnt receive the policy documents or the statement of fact, but it 
was clearly addressed to the property she was insuring, and it was up to her to ensure she 
got the policy documents. The same statement was sent to her on the renewal of the policy 
in February 2019, with a warning that she check the information and ensure it was correct.
My conclusion is that by describing her occupation of the property in the terms Ive set out 
above, Ms B did make a misrepresentation. Fairmead has advised it wouldnt have offered a 
policy had it known the true nature of the occupation of the property. And as the question 
specifically referenced whether it was a main residence or a second home I think it was 
reasonable of it to base the policy on the answer to that question.
Under CIDRA, if the consumer makes a qualifying misrepresentation (which Ms B has in my 
view done here), then if it wouldnt have offered a policy but for that misrepresentation, the 
insurer is entitled to void the policy. Fairmead has done that here. I think that the misrepresentation wasnt deliberate, rather it was careless, so in those circumstances 
CIDRA says the insurer should refund the premiums, as Fairmead has done here.
I realise this will cause some upset to Ms B but the effect of this is that the policy is deemed 
not to exist so Fairmead doesnt have to consider her claim.
investigation
Im sorry that Ms B felt she was badly treated and accused of fraud. Unfortunately where 
there are queries about the nature of the claim, insurers do refer claims to a special 
investigator who is asked to consider if there was fraud involved. This does require robust 
questioning which I appreciate can be upsetting. But ultimately I cant criticise Fairmead for 
the way it handled her claim  Ive noted that no finding of fraud was made against Ms B.
   
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman