DRN-3214831
The complaint
Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs M took out a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage in February 2005. She also took 
additional cover along with a further advance in September 2006. 
Mrs M paid a monthly amount of £25 for the original policy. It provided a monthly benefit of 
£371.81 if Mrs M was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant. There was also an 
additional benefit of £3 for every £1,000 of the original mortgage amount that would be paid 
on top of the monthly benefit amount. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months 
per claim. The top-up cost £5 per month and provided an additional benefit of £140.78 per 
month. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax says it made it clear to Mrs M that the PPI was optional and got her consent before it 
added PPI to her account. But Mrs M says she was told she couldnt have the mortgage 
without it. Mrs M says she remembers the business telling her she had to have PPI because 
she was applying for the mortgage on her own and this is why she thinks it was mis-sold to 
her. 
It might help if I explain that the business would have been entitled to make PPI a 
requirement if they wanted to  it is up to the lender to decide under what terms theyre 
prepared to offer funds to a customer. And if the customer is unhappy with those terms, then 
they are free to seek their loan elsewhere. It would have been a concern if Mrs M was led to 
believe she had to have it if it wasnt a requirement though, so Ive thought about everything 
Mrs M has said carefully. 
Having done so, I think its more likely than not Mrs M knew she didnt have to have PPI. I 
say this because Halifax has provided copies of paperwork relating to Mrs Ms mortgage and 
further advance. Mrs M completed separate applications for the PPI and signed the forms on 
both occasions. The further advance offer listed the PPI under a separate section with the 
heading optional insurance. This is identical to ones Ive seen many times before and so I 
think its more likely than not the original policy was also presented this way. So, I think 
Mrs M was aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at 
the time. 
Mrs M says she was given advice and Halifax agrees. That means as well as giving Mrs M 
enough information about the cover, Halifax also had to check it was suitable for her. And 
based on what Ive seen, I think it was.
Mrs M was eligible for the cover and she doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for her to claim on the PPI, such as having a pre-
existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. 
Mrs M says she was entitled to employee benefits if she was too ill to work or lost her job 
and that her family could have helped her if necessary. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but I dont think this means that the PPI wasnt 
right for her. It would have paid out in addition to her employee benefits and she could have 
made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. While her family may have offered to 
help, circumstances could change which means his help could not always be relied on. So, I 
think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs M if she fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs M at the time it was 
taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking everything 
into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mrs M.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs M all of the other information she needed. But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put her off taking PPI.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mrs Ms home. And 
the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think 
the PPI could have been useful to Mrs M and I dont think she lost out because of anything 
Halifax did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman