DRN-2910269
The complaint
Ms H complains that, for six years, British Gas Insurance Limited carried out sub-standard
annual services on her boiler under her home care insurance policy, which eventually
resulted in her boiler being condemned. 
What happened
Ms H first took out a home care policy with British Gas in 2013 on a tenanted property she
owned. The policy covered the boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair
basis. It included an annual service. 
After the first service, Ms H got a letter from British Gas enclosing a copy of her landlords
gas safety record. The letter said everything was fine and there was nothing she needed to
do. On the gas safety record itself, in a section about any defects found during the service,
British Gas engineer noted there was corrosion inside the boiler case from a previous water
leak. In the section of the record about remedial action, he said this should be monitored on
inspections.
In 2014, after the annual service, Ms H got another letter from British Gas enclosing her
landlords gas safety record. The letter said everything was fine and there was nothing she
needed to do. On the gas safety record, there were no notes by British Gas in the section
about any defects found during the service.
In 2015, Ms H got much the same letter as in previous years saying everything was fine and
there was nothing she needed to do. The landlords gas safety record did, however, have
some notes. The engineer highlighted very serious corosion [sic] to case and gas. And in
the section about remedial action taken, he said Have cleanad [sic] and protect [sic].
Around a week after the 2015 gas safety record was sent to Ms H, she got another letter
from British Gas saying it wanted to do some work at the property. It asked her to call to
make an appointment. Ms H says she contacted British Gas but nothing happened. British
Gas has very recently told us the work was declined.
In 2016, 2017 and 2018 British Gas sent Ms H her landlords gas safety records with a
covering letter saying everything was fine and there was nothing she needed to do. And the
gas safety records for these years didnt note any defects found in the services that had
been carried out.
But when the next service was carried out at the end of October 2019, British Gas engineer
noted in the landlords gas safety record there was a rusted gas pipe inside the boiler. He
said the boiler was at risk. In the remedial action section of the record, he said he turned the
boiler off.
In early November 2019, two engineers visited Ms Hs property on separate occasions. A
customer checklist Ms H was given for the second visit notes boiler chassis too corroded to
fit parts. It also refers to a quote to be given to Ms H for a new boiler. And another checklist
Ms H was given for a visit from another engineer at the end of November says corrosion
needs replacing.
Ms H complained to British Gas saying over a six year period it hadnt maintained her boiler
correctly and shouldve repaired the fault before it became irreparable. British Gas didnt
uphold Ms Hs complaint. It said its engineers had completed all necessary checks during
their visits and followed the appropriate process. So Ms H brought her complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Ms Hs complaint didnt uphold it. He noted Ms Hs policy
said pre-existing faults werent covered. He also noted that, if Ms H had been advised of a
potential problem and hadnt got it fixed, this also wouldnt be covered. As corrosion was
present when Ms H took the policy out, his view was that this wasnt covered. So he thought
British Gas had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms in servicing
Ms Hs boiler.
In my provisional decision of 1 June 2021, I explained that I didnt intend to uphold Ms Hs 
complaint. I said British Gas had recently given us some new information about the 
complaint that we hadnt commented on yet. And I said some of my reasons for not 
upholding it differed from our investigators. Because Ms H and British Gas needed to have 
the chance to comment on all of this, I issued a provisional, rather than a final, decision.
Ms H has given me her comments on my decision and doesnt agree with much of what I 
said in it. British Gas hasnt responded to it. So Ms Hs complaint has now come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Hs complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
I should say, though, that this is a difficult case to decide. In part this is because some of
what I think are key facts arent, as yet, clear to me. Ill explain my reasoning so far.
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms Hs policy. I think the relevant terms here
are:
Ms Hs boiler isnt covered for any faults that existed when her policy was first taken
out with British Gas.
Ms Hs boiler isnt covered for faults British Gas told her about before that she hasnt
fixed.
Ms Hs policy says a repair is one that fixes her boiler following an individual fault or
breakdown. It doesnt cover repairs that are purely cosmetic (the examples the policy
gives are mould, dents or scratches) that dont stop the main function of Ms Hs boiler
from working or make it unsafe.
An annual service is a check done by British Gas to ensure Ms Hs gas boiler is
working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.
As part of the annual service, British Gass engineer will fill in a checklist telling Ms H
exactly whats been looked at. And if British Gas finds a problem that needs to be
fixed, it will tell Ms H about it.
British Gas says its records are clear that when it inspected the boiler in 2013, corrosion was
noted and advised accordingly. It says while the pre-existing corrosion was present as a
result of a previous water leak, the boiler was safe at that point to take onto contract.British Gas says its records have since noted on several occasions that the corrosion would
need to be addressed and a new boiler would be required  but that the boiler was still
working and safe to use. It says it has been very clear with Ms H since the start of the
policy and the fact that no action has been taken on the advice we have given regarding the
corrosion, has now resulted in the current situation. British Gas says its position is
supported by its policy terms and conditions.
Ms H says British Gas failed to fix a fault with her boiler that was identified on the
first inspection. She says later inspections were below any acceptable standard, putting the
safety of her tenants at risk. Ms H says she trusted British Gas to service her boiler and
carry out any repairs necessary or bring them to her attention. She says this didnt happen.
She holds British Gas responsible for her boiler being condemned.
I think Ms H or British Gas are both clear and dont dispute that the corrosion to the boiler
casing found in 2013 was pre-existing. It seems it was probably caused by the water leak
Ms H had had repaired before the boiler came on cover with British Gas.
In 2015 things are less clear. And this, to me, is a crucial point in the timeline of Ms Hs
complaint. Its then that British Gas notes for the first time  in its internal records and in
Ms Hs gas safety record  serious corrosion to the gas supply pipe. And its shortly after this
that British Gas writes to Ms H asking her to make an appointment to get some work done.
When I first looked at Ms Hs case file, I didnt know  and I still dont  what this work was
for. Given the timing, though, its probably a reasonable assumption it was to do with the
corrosion to the gas pipe. I also didnt know how British Gas had viewed the corrosion found
in 2015. Did it think it was linked to the 2013 corrosion (which would be excluded from cover
as a pre-existing fault)? Or was it a new fault (which would in all probability be covered under
the policy)? Crucially, also, I didnt know why the work didnt go ahead.
So we asked both Ms H and British Gas for some more information on these things.
Not surprisingly after so long, Ms H cant remember much. She says she either called British
Gas on 3 December 2015 or thats when the appointment was scheduled for. But she also
says its possible British Gas contacted her tenants directly. She says she has no record of
what the work was for and cant access her 2015 diary to see if an appointment was made.
She says she doesnt know why the work didnt go ahead. But she says its very unlikely or
impossible she wouldve declined any work recommended by British Gas and covered by
her policy.
Like Ms H, British Gas cant say with any certainty what the work was for. But it does say:
I can see from our file a quote was provided for upgrade work to the system which was
later declined. I can only assume this was in relation to this however I dont have any
specifics due to the time which has passed.
British Gas says the work was declined. This is something Ms H says she wouldnt have
done. If British Gas has information to back up its statement that the work was declined, Id
be grateful if it could be sent to me as soon as possible.
In relation to whether the 2013 and 2015 corrosion were linked to the same event, a British
Gas field manager has given comments based on a review of Ms Hs service history and her
claim, as follows:
It is my opinion the likelihood of it [the 2015 corrosion] being linked to the earlier corrosion is
very high. Corrosion does not happen immediately and continues long after the initial root
cause of the leak has been removed. There probably is some evidence somewhere thatshows different metals corrode at different rates and become apparent at different times but
would still be attributed to the same leak event. I also would base this opinion on that there
was not any subsequent reports by the customer of any leaks following our initial
identification of the corrosion almost 2 years earlier.
And in response to a question we asked British Gas about what action it told Ms H to take
relating to the 2015 corrosion, it says:
We believe it is our responsibility to make the customer aware of the condition of their boiler
to allow them to make an informed decision on what action to take. We do not believe it is
our responsibility to influence this decision as it is not work that would be covered under the
terms of their policy.
As Ive already said, I think I can fairly and reasonably assume the work recommended by
British Gas in 2015 was connected to the boiler corrosion  but Ms H or British Gas should
let me know if they have information to the contrary. On this assumption, and bearing in
mind I still dont know why the work British Gas recommended in 2015 didnt go ahead, Ive
reached some provisional conclusions on this complaint.
I think it was fair and reasonable of British Gas to rely on its engineers findings that the
corrosion to the casing of Ms Hs boiler found in 2013 was caused by a previous water leak.
And so I think it was also fair and reasonable of British Gas not to repair that corrosion,
because Ms Hs home emergency insurance policy excluded cover for existing faults.
And, even if the 2013 corrosion wasnt a pre-existing fault, Ms Hs policy only covered her
boiler for repairs following an individual fault or breakdown. It didnt include repairs that were
purely cosmetic that didnt stop the main function of the boiler working or make it unsafe.
Ms H says British Gas didnt make it clear to her that the corrosion was pre-existing or that
she needed to do anything about it. From the paperwork Ive seen so far, although corrosion
was noted, I agree. But I dont think that, in 2013, Ms H wouldve done anything differently 
like getting the casing replaced (if she could) or otherwise getting the corrosion repaired  if
she had been told clearly by British Gas it wasnt covered. Thats because Ms H herself
describes the corrosion at the time as minimal. And British Gas says it didnt affect the
working or safety of the boiler. (As an aside, I also think its likely this is why British Gas told
Ms H there was nothing she needed to do when it sent her the gas safety record.) So Im
satisfied any failing by British Gas in 2013 didnt prejudice Ms Hs position.
The evidence I have that the 2013 and 2015 corrosion are linked to Ms Hs previous water
leak isnt as strong as it could be. British Gas has been clear its field manager has only been
able to view its records of Ms Hs service history along with the details of her claim. He or
she cant, for instance, examine the boiler itself. But a British Gas field manager is likely to
have some expertise in giving a view on a matter such as this. Of course, that view isnt an
independent one  he or she works for British Gas. But as things stand at the moment, its
the only expert view I have. And, on balance  and this is finely balanced  Im persuaded by
the field managers view of the very high likelihood the corrosion to the gas pipe found in
2015 was caused by the same water leak that caused corrosion to the casing found in 2013.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I think it was fair and reasonable of British Gas to treat
the corrosion to the gas pipe it found in 2015 as a pre-existing fault, which Ms Hs policy
didnt cover her for. This means Ms H wouldve had to pay herself for any work that needed
to be done to repair it.
And, even if Im wrong in saying this, I should also say I dont have any information to show
that, if British Gas had dealt with the pipe corrosion in 2015, Ms Hs boiler wouldve lasted
longer than it did.As Ive said before, I dont know why the work British Gas recommended in 2015 didnt take
place. But what I do know is I dont have any information, so far, to show me this was a
failing on British Gas part. (I should also say the only evidence I have at the moment that
there was potentially a failing on Ms Hs part is British Gas as yet unsupported statement
that the work was declined.)
With no evidence that British Gas did anything wrong in how it dealt with the 2015 corrosion,
I dont think  based on what Ive seen so far  I can fairly and reasonably say it needs to do
anything to put things right for Ms H.
My findings so far are based on the limited information I have about events in 2015. Im
conscious that, in focussing on this period  as I think I must  I havent said anything about
what happened subsequently. As things stand, I dont know why, for the following three
years, British Gas didnt say anything about corrosion in its internal records or Ms Hs gas
safety records. But since I cant say British Gas was at fault for the work in 2015 not going
ahead, I dont think, based on the evidence I have, that Ive reason to conclude British Gas
was at fault for subsequent events relating to the boiler.
Ms H has marked my provisional decision with extensive comments and many questions. 
Her main point is she thinks its quite clearly evident British Gas didnt deal with the 2015 
corrosion and shouldve dealt with it in the following years to prevent the breakdown of the 
boiler.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think events following the boiler service in 2015 are 
crucial to Ms Hs complaint. If the corrosion had been dealt with then, I think its unlikely     
Ms H wouldve had the problems she had later.
The only documentary evidence I have following the boiler service in 2015 is the letter Ms H 
got from British Gas on 28 November 2015 saying it needed to do some work and asking  
Ms H to let it know when was convenient. 
That work (which, as Ive said in my provisional decision, I think its reasonable to assume 
was connected to the corrosion) never went ahead. I dont know why that is. Ms H says she 
phoned British Gas in early December, which she says was very likely to make an 
appointment to get the work done. British Gas says Ms H declined the work. Neither Ms H 
nor British Gas has given me any other information to back up what they say.
To uphold Ms Hs complaint, Id need to think  from the facts and information I have  that it 
was more likely than not British Gas did something wrong and was at fault for the work not 
going ahead. For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (which now 
forms part of this final decision), I dont have enough information about what did or didnt 
happen for me to think that would be a fair and reasonable conclusion. From what Ive seen, 
the fault for the work not going ahead could lie with British Gas. But it could equally lie with 
Ms H. 
I understand Ms Hs frustration with this complaint. Shes spent a lot of time on it and, 
despite her efforts, still has many unanswered questions. Im sorry I havent been able to 
answer Ms Hs questions  but I can only decide a complaint based on the information Im 
given about it and what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
And as I said in my provisional decision, since I cant say British Gas was at fault for the 
work not going ahead in 2015, I cant say British Gas was at fault for subsequent problems 
with the boiler. Thats because, if the boiler had been fixed in 2015, I dont think its likely   
Ms H wouldve had those problems.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman