DRN-2021881
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Al Rayan Bank PLC handled an application for a savings 
account and how it dealt with his complaint about it.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr M completed a customer fact-find at the bank, as he was considering 
opening an account. He didn't do so at that  time, but did try to open an account online in 
January 2020. However, it seems that, because of an earlier IT problem, the bank's systems 
treated Mr M as an existing customer. That meant he had to call the bank to complete the 
application. 
When he did call the bank, Mr M was asked some security questions. One of these 
concerned the notice period on the account. Mr M was unable to answer that question and 
so was unable to continue with the application by telephone. 
He complained to the bank, calling several times to try to resolve the issue. He had some 
difficulty contacting a manager or arranging a call back. The bank offered him £20 in 
recognition of that. 
Mr M referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Having initially understood that the IT problem meant that Mr M's personal details 
had been retained by the bank; it explained that wasn't the case; there was no information 
that could be accessed by staff. The investigator was also able to listen to a recording of the 
call in which Mr M had been unable to answer a security question. The investigator was 
satisfied that the question related to the account Mr M had been trying to open at the time, 
not to accounts he may have been interested in back in 2017. 
Having initially suggested an increase in compensation, therefore, the investigator didn't 
consider that the bank had done anything wrong - although he noted that it had offered a 
further £20 in respect of its handling of Mr M's complaint. Mr M didn't accept the 
investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M's concerns here are about the way it handled both his application and his complaint. 
But I can't make an award in respect of complaint handling alone, although I can make an 
award in recognition of the distress Mr M has suffered and any inconvenience he's been put 
to if I determine the underlying complaint about the financial service in his favour.
Mr M's complaint about the financial service here is about the application to open the 
savings account. His complaint about that is that his call was ended when he couldn't 
answer a security question. He says he can't be expected to recall an earlier enquiry he made. I have however listened to his call with the bank. It's clear that the question is about 
the application he tried to make online the previous day; it didn't concern any historic 
application or personal data. 
The information the bank had about Mr M was quite limited, since he was only a prospective 
customer. And, as he says, the level of security provided by a question about an account 
that wasn't open would have been limited. I believe however that the bank was entitled to 
take the view that asking about the account Mr M was applying for might help to identify him. 
Since he wasn't able to answer that question, it wasn't unreasonable to ask Mr M to pursue 
the application by other means - specifically, by attending the branch. 
For these reasons, I don't believe I can fairly determine Mr M's complaint about the account 
application in his favour. It follows then that I cannot make an award in respect of the bank's 
handling of his complaint about it. I shall therefore simply leave it to Mr M to decide if he 
wants to accept the bank's offer of compensation - assuming it's still open for acceptance.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Al Rayan Bank PLC to do anything further to resolve 
Mr M's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman