DRN-3707752
The complaint
Ms H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited refuses to increase the limit of indemnity 
available under her legal expenses insurance policy as she believes its actions contributed 
to the indemnity being exhausted. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms H complains about the actions of the claims handing agents, Aviva 
are the underwriters of the legal expenses insurance policy, and it has accepted that it is 
accountable for the actions of its agents. So where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents 
and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2014, Ms H made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue action against 
her freeholder and neighbour. The claim has been ongoing for several years and, whilst the 
dispute remains unresolved, the £50,000 limit of indemnity under her policy has been used 
up in legal costs. 
Ms H believes significant sums of money have been spent under the policy on unnecessary 
action which has contributed to the indemnity being exhausted. And shes unhappy Aviva 
has refused to provide any further funding under the policy to conclude her claim.
Aviva says it has authorised the legal costs required by the solicitors in the course of the 
claim, and it put Ms H on notice when the costs approached the policys limit. It says overall 
costs of the claim have increased due to the unreasonable behaviour of the defendant.
Ms H raised a complaint which she brought to our service, but our Investigator didnt uphold 
it. He was satisfied Aviva had relied on the legal recommendations of the solicitor when 
making decisions on funding, and he didnt think it had done anything wrong or unfair by 
applying the policys limits on cover. 
As Ms H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Ms H that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint 
points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything shes told 
us. Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail she would like, in order to reach what 
I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
The terms and conditions of Ms Hs legal expenses insurance policy say:
We will insure you for any costs and expenses incurred in respect of legal 
proceedingsprovided thatthe maximum amount we will pay for costs and 
expenses in respect of any or all claims arising from one cause is the amount shown 
in your schedule.
The policy schedule says the limit of indemnity is £50,000. 
As such, Im satisfied this is the maximum amount Aviva is liable for under the policy terms 
for this claim.
Ms H says costs have been incurred unnecessarily and have increased due to Avivas 
conduct. But Aviva  and its agents  isnt responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the legal 
claim and its time isnt billed under the policy. 
As it is not legally trained, Aviva relies on the advice of the acting solicitor as to how the 
claim should be handled and what action should be taken  and it will authorise the funding 
accordingly. I wouldnt expect Aviva to question or refuse the solicitors requests for funding 
unless the advice is so obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to notice. 
Ms H has given examples of unnecessary action take on her case, including obtaining a 
default costs certificate and preserving the order of costs when the costs order wasnt going 
to be enforced. But this is a question of how the legal claim itself was run and, as Ive 
explained above, that would be down to the solicitors  not Aviva. If the legal advice was that 
a default costs certificate should be obtained, for example, then its reasonable that Aviva 
authorised the legal costs to do so. 
I understand Ms H is unhappy that the order for the costs incurred under the policy is not 
being pursued. But Aviva has explained that there is no indemnity left for enforcement 
action. Its confirmed that it wont seek costs from her personally, and I think thats fair. 
Whilst I sympathise with Ms Hs position, Ive considered her testimony that Avivas actions 
have increased the costs but this isnt backed up by other evidence and I dont find it 
persuasive  its clear that many of the points shes raised are based around how her legal 
claim was conducted, which is down to the legal representation she had at the time. 
Complaints about the advice or actions of a solicitor falls outside the role of our service. 
Ms H may decide to raise a complaint to the solicitors directly, which she can escalate to the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman