DRN-1288656
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his business account and required him to 
repay the overdraft including bank charges and interest.
What happened
Mr F had a business current account with an overdraft facility. In December 2018 HSBC 
wrote to him as part of a safeguard exercise to help prevent fraud and financial crime.  And it 
required him to provide information about his business. It says he did not do so, and it gave 
him notice that his account would be closed in June 2019. There was an existing overdrawn 
balance and it told him he would need to repay this. He says he had a payment plan and 
wanted charges and interest to be refunded for the past three years and including those that 
were applied after the date his account should have been closed. HSBC said it had no 
record of any arrangement to waive charges, but it offered to pay him £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr F did not accept this and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do anything more. He said that:
- Apart from a period in 2016 when Mr F had told HSBC about an injury affecting his 
work there was no record of any arrangement for this business account. Mr F had 
been paying off four other debts from this account under payment plans at a rate of 
£25 per month.
- HSBC had shown it had contacted Mr F about the safeguard exercise in December 
2018 and January 2019. It had not received a response. It wrote to him on 28 March 
2019 stating that his account would be closed on 6 June 2019. And that any 
outstanding overdraft borrowing would need to be repaid.
- HSBC had separately sent Mr F letters about his overdraft borrowing in December 
2018 and February 2019 saying that it expected to receive regular payments into the 
account. And asking Mr F if he would like to discuss this and that if no payments are 
made a final demand could be made.
- HSBC was entitled to decide to close the account and expect Mr F to repay his 
outstanding borrowing including interest and charges.
Mr F did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the overdraft 
balance includes interest and charges and that these shouldnt have been applied. He did 
not think HSBC should be able to charge interest on interest. He believed the current 
balance on his account to be in the order of £1,800 including ongoing charges. He said that 
when his other accounts were closed, he had no way of paying anything and thats why 
payments went through the business account. Whether his accounts are closed or not hes 
entitled to have his charges looked at. He wants his other four accounts investigated too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that our investigator has contacted Mr F about the other four accounts. HSBC has 
said that these are not part of his business account connection. And our investigator told    
Mr F that we can look into a complaint about these but will be investigating that separately. 
The evidence is that despite any payment arrangements on those other accounts Mr F 
continued to run a business current account. As our investigators mentioned there was a 
time in 2016 when Mr F asked for specific assistance. But after that the account was running 
on commercial terms. For example, Ive seen a copy of an overdraft renewal letter dated 2 
November 2018 confirming the overdraft continued for a further year and with no reference 
to any payment plan.
Ive looked at the bank statements for the business current account. There do appear to 
have been business credits and payments made. Charges and interest have been shown 
and HSBC says Mr F would have received pre notification of these. HSBC has at times 
expressed concern at the lack of credits expecting the account balance to fluctuate. Thats 
been something separate to the reasons why the account was closed.
Mr F hasnt made any substantive comments about his engagement with the safeguard 
exercise. I think HSBC could reasonably expect him to provide this information it requested 
to help ensure it meet its legal and regulatory requirements. He had been told that if he didnt 
his account would be closed. He was sent a notice of closure dated 28 March 2019. And that 
notice explained that hed need to repay his overdraft when the account was closed.
He wasnt in a position to repay and as a result the account was restricted but could not be 
fully closed. Charges and interest continued to accrue which he was unhappy about. In 
September 2019 after HSBC had responded to his complaint it sent him a demand for 
payment and told him where he could get free advice about his debt.
Im afraid that HSBC was entitled to decide no longer to operate an account for Mr F and 
had given him the required notice under its terms and conditions. His overdraft facility was 
available with the account and was repayable on demand and was withdrawn. I dont have 
evidence of any agreement about waiving any charges or interest on this account. Or of any 
agreement about repayment. So, the charges and interest were applied in line with the 
agreed tariff and I dont think an error has been made in the balance demanded from Mr F. 
HSBC told me on 29 June 2020 that the overdrawn balance was £1,582.59.
I am not going to be asking HSBC to do more than pay the amount it offered of £200 and it 
will be a matter for Mr F to contact it about repayment of this outstanding borrowing.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc need 
do no more than it has offered to and which is to pay Mr F £200.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman