DRN-2277976
The complaint
Ms A complains that esure Insurance Limited havent paid enough for her car, when it was
deemed a total loss after she claimed on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms As car was stolen and recovered a month later. When esure inspected the car, they said 
it
wasnt economical to repair. Because of this esure offered Ms A the market value of her car 
at the time it was stolen. esure also said the mileage Ms A said she travelled each year in 
her car was lower than shed actually done. Because of this esure said Ms A hadnt paid 
enough for her policy and settled her claim proportionately.
Ms A wasnt happy and complained. She said she had been honest about the number of
miles she did each year. She said because of a change in her personal circumstance the
year before shed done more miles that year than she thought she would when she took that
policy out.
esure reviewed Ms As complaint and didnt uphold it. They said Ms As car was new when
she bought it and it had been insured with esure for the last two years. They said each year
shed declared her mileage to be about 4,000-5,000 each year. At the time her car was
deemed a total loss it was around three years old and the cars mileage was around 27,000
miles. Because of this esure didnt think Ms A had given accurate information when the
policy started. Ms A disagreed and brought her complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 September 2020 where I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
esure think Ms A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she
gave her estimated annual mileage. This is because she quoted her annual mileage as
around 4,000-5,000 mile per year. esure have also referred to Ms As mileage on her service
in October 2018 as being 11,884 and then in October 2019 as being 24,976 miles. Ive
looked at the renewal documentation sent to Ms A for her 2019-2020 policy and the policy
schedule says Estimated annual mileage 4001 - 5000 miles. At the top of document, it also
asks Ms A to check the information is correct and let them know if it isnt.
Ms A says her mileage is only higher than she estimated as in the policy year 2018-2019 her
personal circumstance changed, and she suffered a family bereavement which meant she
did higher mileage in the policy year 2018-2019. She also said as it was a month until the
car was recovered the thieves must have done around 3,000 miles in her car in that month.
I can see from the engineers report that Ms As car was registered new in September 2017
and her policy renewed in March of each year. Her car was deemed a total loss in February
2020 and had covered 27,826 miles. When taking into account the two services and the age
and mileage of Ms As car I think its more likely on the balance of probabilities [that she] 
would always be doing more mileage than she estimated when the policy started and 
therefore should have quoted a higher figure. Because of this Im satisfied she 
misrepresented the annual mileage.
esure have shown that if Ms A had quoted the higher mileage, she would have paid a higher
premium. esure says this means Ms A has paid 79.66% of what she should have. This
means Im satisfied Ms As misrepresentation is a qualifying one. esure gave a market value
of £10,055 and has paid 79.66% of this minus any policy excess. When looking at the trade
guides Im satisfied £10,055 was a fair market value for Ms As car.
Under CIDRA the remedies available to esure depend on whether the misrepresentation
was deliberate or reckless or careless. esure havent said what they think the
misrepresentation is, but have dealt it Ms As claim and settled it proportionately. This is a
remedy if the misrepresentation was careless and Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in
this case.
Im satisfied Ms A made a qualifying misrepresentation and esure have dealt with it in line
with the remedies under CIDRA. Im therefore not likely to interfere with esures decision to
settle the claim proportionately.
esure didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms A responded and didnt accept it. She 
said the complaint spans three policies, as she bought the car brand new in September 
2017. Ms A said she did high mileage in the policy year 2018-2019 and not the in 2019-2020 
policy, which was the one covering her car at the time of the theft. She provided pictures of 
the mileage on her new car which she said show shes done less than 2,000 miles in six 
months. Ms A also provided details of the car she owned in 2014 and said these support that 
she normally only does low mileage. 
I asked our investigator to respond to Ms A and ask how many miles she did in the previous 
policy year, and for evidence of the additional mileage she did. I suggested Ms A provides 
fuel receipts or bank statements to show the additional fuel costs which would support doing 
more mileage during that time. 
Ms A responded to say she wasnt able to provide statement from as far back as the policy 
year 2018-2019, as she regularly changes banks. But Ms A did provide statements from 
March 2019 to November 2019, which showed her fuel purchases for the policy year her car 
was stolen in. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has made a number of detailed points in response to my provisional decision. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this 
complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than 
commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms A. Rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
From reviewing the additional evidence Ms A has provided its not persuaded me to depart 
from my provisional findings. And Ill explain why. 
For the fuel purchases for the policy year 2019-2020, Ms A explained these costs also 
involve buying groceries, carware and gifts. This evidence is also for the policy year 2019-
2020 which is after the date the policy started. When considering the complaint, I need to 
consider whether Ms A took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when the 
policy started. So, while she may have done lower mileage in the 2019-2020 policy year, Im 
not persuaded that shows she normally did lower mileage previously. 
Ms A has also provided details of the car she owned from 2014-2017 along with the mileage 
when she bought and sold the car. Ms A said this shows she did on average 5,578 miles per 
year and supports she does low mileage. I agree it supports shes done low mileage during 
that time. The range Ms A said she normally does when her 2019-2020 policy was taken out 
is 4,001-5,000 miles. So, from looking at the mileage done in her previous car, while it shows 
she did low mileage during that time, it was still over 10% higher than the maximum she said 
she expected to do in her 2019-2020 policy. So Im not persuaded this shows she didnt 
make a misrepresentation when taking out her 2019-2020 policy. 
As Ms A hasnt been able to show its most likely shes did the additional mileage in her car 
during the 2018-2019 policy year, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman