DRN-3499558
The complaint
Mr B complains the information Experian Limited hold about him on his credit file is outdated 
and incorrect. 
What happened
Mr B says the information Experian hold about him on his credit file is outdated and that 
when he complained about this, they said they needed more information to look into things 
which was inconvenient. 
Mr B also says Experian offer products and services with higher interest rates - so he feels 
they benefit from relying on outdated information. Mr B doesnt feel what Experian are doing 
is legal. Mr B says hed like Experian to hold up to date information about him and feels hes 
been impacted by this as hes not been offered financial products at a reduced interest rate.
Experian say Mr B complained to them about his credit file showing the following:
Two loans instead of one  so they asked Mr B to provide information about the 
exact account he believed was showing incorrectly and said that theyd raise this with 
the lender on Mr Bs behalf. However, as Mr B was unable to provide this information 
to Experian, they were unable to raise a query with the lender. 
One credit card instead of two credit cards - Experian asked for when Mr B opened 
his credit card accounts because if it had been opened more than six weeks prior, 
theyd raise this query with the lender of the accounts. 
Another account was showing as having an outstanding balance, when he believed it 
to be at a zero balance - Experian explained this information comes from the lender 
and that if Mr B had paid off his credit card that day, it wouldnt show until the lender 
told Experian about it. 
Overall, Experian say they couldnt amend Mr Bs credit file about these accounts without 
receiving consent from the lenders.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. In summary, he said Experian rely on 
information provided to them by Mr Bs lenders about his accounts. And that sometimes, 
there may be a delay before information is received and therefore updated on Mr Bs credit 
file. Our Investigator also said there was no obligation on Mr B to have the fee-paying 
services Experian provide in order to get a copy of his credit file. And that Experian arent in 
control of the data that is sent to them nor how quickly it reaches them. So, he didnt think 
Experian treated Mr B unfairly.
Mr B disagreed. He said if he agreed to their subscription service then they would display 
more up to date information on his credit file. But that if he doesnt pay for this service, hes 
being punished by having outdated information appear on his credit file. Mr B provided us 
with a screenshot showing that Experian were offering him the opportunity to sign up to a 
service they provide  called CreditExpert which allows customers to understand and 
improve their score in order to help them get the right deals. Theres a monthly subscription 
fee for this service. Mr B said this suggested that if he paid for Experians service, his credit 
score would be more accurate. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has told us part of his complaint is about how Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) often hold outdated information which affects credit opportunities. Mr B also feels 
CRAs benefit from asking customers to pay for a premium service in order to get real time 
and updated information on their credit file. I can appreciate Mr Bs concerns, but Im only 
looking into the circumstances of this complaint and whether Experian have treated Mr B 
fairly. Im not going to comment on other CRAs as they dont form part of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that they hold outdated information about him on his credit 
file which is having an impact on him.
Experian are correct in saying that they rely on the information thats provided to them by 
third-party companies to ensure their reports are accurate. And that they rely on the third-
party companies to provide them with this information in a timely manner. In essence, 
Experian stores data about financial accounts held by Mr B which is provided to them by 
lenders and other account providers  Experian dont own the data themselves.
I note Experian have referred to several accounts that Mr B told them were outdated or 
incorrect. And they offered Mr B the option of checking his credit file so he could provide 
them with further detail about these accounts. I dont think Experians request was 
unreasonable and as theyve explained, information comes from third parties in a monthly 
update, so their reports may not provide real time information  on balance, its likely this is 
may be the reason why information may be outdated. However, our Investigator asked Mr B 
if hed checked his credit file to see if it was accurate and up to date, but Mr B didnt respond 
to this point. So, without this, Ive got no reason to believe Experian have done anything 
wrong in terms of the information theyve displayed on Mr Bs credit file.
Nonetheless, as I say, if Mr B feels incorrect information is being displayed on his credit file, 
then its likely this will need to be raised with the third-party companies  and I note Experian 
asked Mr B for more information in order for them to do this on his behalf. While I 
acknowledge Mr B feels Experians request for him to provide more information is 
inconvenient, I think its Experians attempt to try and help Mr B put right what he feels is 
incorrect on his credit file.
Mr B also says hed get more of an accurate credit score if he paid for Experians 
CreditExpert service. But he doesnt feel he should have to pay in order to get this. I can 
appreciate Mr Bs concerns; however, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that signing 
up to this service would provide Mr B with a more accurate credit score. In addition to the 
features provided with a free account with Experian, this service provides customers with the 
ability to improve their score with a prediction of how it could go up over time and allows 
them to understand their credit report and score in more detail. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that this service provides more of an accurate credit score, or more up to date 
information, than Experians free credit report.
Lastly, I note Mr B has raised concerns that the outdated information held on his credit report 
is affecting him getting financial products, from other third parties, at a reduced interest rate. 
Its important for me to point out that before a third-party makes a lending decision, there are 
many things theyll consider. And they may use their own lending criteria in order to determine this. While a third-party may search a customers credit report to understand how 
well theyve managed credit in the past, they dont solely rely on this information before 
making their decision. Additionally, while I can appreciate Mr Bs concerns and frustration, 
Mr B hasnt provided any evidence to suggest hes not been able to take out the financial 
products he wants as a direct and sole result of information on his credit file. 
Overall, I dont find Experian have treated Mr B unfairly for all of these reasons.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman