DRN-4171630
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D had a powerful and valuable vehicle with a cherished number plate.
Mr D took out an esure policy for that vehicle for the year from February 2022. He paid about 
£580.00.
In early April 2022, Mr D contacted esure to tell it of a change of registration number. 
Unfortunately, esure changed its records to cover a different vehicle. esure refunded about 
£209.00 to Mr D.
In mid- December 2022, Mr D contacted esure to tell it of a further change of registration 
number of his vehicle. But esure said the policy didnt cover his vehicle. On the same day, 
esure changed its records to cover Mr Ds vehicle (until February 2023). Mr D paid an 
additional premium of about £37.00.
Mr D complained to esure that - from April to December 2022 - it hadnt been covering his 
vehicle.
By a form of final response dated late December 2022, esure apologised and said it was 
refunding the additional premium of about £37.00.
By a final response dated early February 2023, esure said that it had waived the admin fee 
of £26.00 and refunded the additional premium of about £37.00. It didnt offer any further 
remedy.
Mr D brought his complaint to us in late April 2023. He asked for a refund of the premium for 
the period April to December 2022, interest and compensation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
esure wouldve covered any claims on Mr Ds vehicle. The investigator said that esures 
error had caused Mr D minimal distress and inconvenience. He recommended that esure 
should pay Mr D £75.00 compensation for that.
esure accepted the investigators opinion.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He does not see any explanation from esure as to how the error occurred.
esure stated that he would not have been on cover for the correct vehicle, nor would 
any claim have been upheld for the correct vehicle. 
That information gave rise to the need for his complaint.
Later esure changed its position.
The matter has gone on for quite some months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at the impact on the 
complainant. Such impact may include financial loss or non-financial loss such as distress 
and inconvenience. We assess compensation by reference to the actual impact on the 
complainant. 
We dont assess compensation by reference to what the impact mightve been. We dont 
assess compensation at a level intended to punish or deter unfair acts or omissions.
The December 2022 final response from esure included the following explanation:
You asked on a webform to change the registration number of your car. I was 
disappointed to note that our agent also updated the vehicle model please be 
assured feedback will be given to the agent involved
So theres no doubt that esure made an error. That shouldnt have happened. 
However, Mr D didnt suffer any distress and inconvenience until he found out about the 
error.
I accept Mr Ds statement that during a telephone conversation in December 2022, esure 
told him that it wouldnt have covered any claims involving his vehicle for the period April to 
December 2022. So I can see why Mr D thought esure should refund part of the premium.
Fortunately, there was no claim on the policy between April and December 2022. But I dont 
doubt that the error caused Mr D some degree of concern at what mightve happened if 
there had been a claim.
Im satisfied that esure put the error right as soon as it came to light. But it also gave 
inappropriate information about whether it wouldve covered a claim.
I accept esures later statement that it wouldve covered any claim. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct esure to make any further refund.
Putting things right
Ive weighed up the impact on Mr D. I keep in mind that  of the original payment of about 
£580.00  esure refunded about £209.00 to Mr D.
Overall, I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay Mr D 
£75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr D £75.00 for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman