DRN-3408544
Complaint
Mr W complains that he lost the money he invested into a three year bond issued by Basset 
& Gold Plc (B&G plc). He says he thinks the bond was mis-sold to him, and would like to 
be compensated for his loss. 
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr W invested in a Basset & Gold Plc Fixed Monthly Income Bond (3 years). Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, 
the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated - bassetgold.co.uk. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the 
bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. BG Ltds online application process took steps to meet the obligations created by 
these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out, and 
consider, the rules in my findings. 
Neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
own right at the time of Mr Ws investment. But both were appointed representatives of 
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium), which was an FCA authorised business.        
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 
28 February 2018. As such, Gallium is responsible for a complaint about either business 
which is about the acts and omissions which took place during this time, for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility. 
I have seen copies of the appointed representative agreements between Gallium and     
B&G Plc and BG Ltd  both of which are dated 17 February 2017. I will set out below why I 
think Mr Ws complaint is about something for which Gallium accepted responsibility. 
Gallium also played a role in relation to the bond in its own right  it was responsible for 
approving BG Ltds marketing and promotional material relating to the bond. Gallium has 
confirmed that the promotional material included the Invitation Document (which was the 
formal financial promotion document for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000), bassetgold.co.uk, and online advertising material (such as Google 
and Facebook adverts) issued by BG Ltd.
Mr Ws investment in the bond
Mr W visited bassetgold.co.uk in early August 2017. He began but did not complete (or was 
unable to complete) an application on the website. This prompted BG Ltd to call Mr W on 11 
August 2017 to ask him if he was looking to make an application for our savings bonds. BG 
Ltd asked Mr W what bond he was looking to invest in and he confirmed it was the monthly 
income one. Mr W said to BG Ltd that he had intended to apply, and thought he had done 
so. BG Ltd offered to send him a link to allow him to complete an application. It also 
undertook to follow up with Mr W once he had completed the application.  
Mr W submitted an application through the website on 12 August 2017 (assumedly following 
the link BG Ltd had sent to him). Mr W and BG Ltd then spoke on the phone again on 14 
August 2017. At the outset of this call BG Ltd confirmed receipt of Mr Ws application and 
said they are going to give him instructions on how to transfer the investment sum to it. Mr W 
then asked some questions about the investment, which BG Ltd answered. 
We have been provided with recordings of these calls. I have listened to these, and consider 
them in more detail in my findings. 
The bond Mr W invested in offered an interest rate of 6.22% per year, payable monthly, with 
the invested capital to be returned after 3 years. Mr W decided to invest £15,000. 
Mr W says he wanted an investment that would provide a good interest return without any 
risk to his capital. And he understood the bond met these criteria. He says the money he 
invested came from deposit accounts, and his only previous experience of saving was 
through the use of such accounts. Mr W also says he was not told how the funds he invested 
would be used and it didnt occur to him there was any risk  he thought his capital was 
secure, and took comfort from BG Ltd being regulated.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. That email included the 
following: 
To date the vast majority of lending has been to an FCA regulated lender that currently 
holds approximately 36,000 consumer loans. We are happy with the way that investment is 
performing, and the underlying spread of loans across tens of thousands of borrowers 
provides strong levels of predictability and resilience.
As Basset & Gold Plc is currently predominantly invested in a single lender, it is our 
responsibility to ensure that you are aware of the associated risk, known as Concentration 
Risk. It might help to explain this risk if you think of the goose that laid the golden egg. It 
was a great asset, but it only took one goose to die for the asset to dry up. Basset & Golds 
investment team has performed due diligence on more than 40 opportunities over the past 
year. Its investment philosophy has been to accept the risk of holding one good asset, rather 
than diluting quality in order to improve diversification. We hope that this will translate into 
improved diversification over time, but as an investor you should be aware that Basset & 
Gold will only proceed with an investment when they are happy with it, even if that prolongs 
the Concentration Risk.
This refers to the fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to 
one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle 
Buck went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr W has not had his invested capital returned to him (although he 
did receive the interest payments on the bond up until B&G Plc went into administration). 
The online application process
I have seen an archive of the website bassetgold.co.uk from around the time Mr W made his 
investment. This shows consumers such as Mr W would have arrived at the home page of 
bassetgold.co.uk, which carried the title Basset & Gold   Your investment Goals, Achieved! 
and were invited to click a LEARN MORE button beneath each of three different bond 
products, one of which was the Fixed Monthly Income Bond (3 years) Mr W invested in.  After clicking on the button below Fixed Monthly Income Bond (3 years) Mr W would have 
been presented with the following: 
What are the Basset & Gold Fixed Monthly Income Bonds?
Basset & Gold was setup by a team of seasoned professionals with decades of experience 
in finance, in order to provide financing for online andpeer to peer lending platforms and 
loans. We look to provide every day investors with the opportunity to take advantage of an 
offer that has security levels previously available only to institutional and ultra-high net 
worth investors, and gain attractive returns from as little as £1,000 by purchasing the 
Basset & Gold bonds.
How are the funds used?
Basset & Gold is seeking funding in order to expand its business and lending capabilities. 
These include investing in, and providing facilities for online lending and peer-to-peer 
platforms and loans. Basset & Gold aims to get institutional returns and gain access to 
opportunities that are not readily available to everyday investors.
At a glance:
The Basset & Gold Bonds are designed to be a straightforward investment. Bondholders 
receive a predetermined fixed interest rate, which is paid every month, six months or at 
maturity, depending on the option chosen. At maturity, the full amount of your investment will 
be repaid. All interest is paid net of basic tax calculated at 20%, except in the case of tax-
free investors. The Basset & Gold Bond is non-transferable and cannot be sold or
traded. Bondholders may submit a request to Basset & Gold that their bond be terminated 
early. All requests are subject to liquidity and are considered at the discretion of the 
companys management.
Minimum investment is £1,000 and thereafter in multiples of £10.
Bonds are available to UK-based individuals, companies, charities and trusts
The Basset & Gold Fixed Monthly Income Bond may be placed in a Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP) subject to the investment policy and procedures of the relevant 
SIPP trustee.
Before you subscribe to one of the Basset & Gold Bonds, you should make sure that you 
fully understand the risks which are set out in the Invitation Document and you should 
determine whether the investment is suitable for you on the basis of all the information 
contained therein. In the event that the company becomes insolvent, you may lose some or 
all of your investment. If you are in any doubt about the contents of the Invitation Document,
this website, or the action you should take, you are strongly recommended to consult a 
professional financial advisor.
Frequently Asked Questions
Who is Basset & Gold?
Basset & Gold is a UK registered Public Limited Company (Registration number 05433451) 
that specialises in financing online and peer-to-peer lending. Our registered address is 6 
Percy Street, London W1T 1DQ. For more details, click [link]Are the Basset & Gold Fixed Income Bonds authorised and regulated by the FCA?
The Basset & Gold Fixed Income Bond program is approved as a financial promotion for UK 
publication by Gallium Fund Solutions Limited who are authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to conduct investment business (FRN: 431709).
What are the Basset & Gold Fixed Income Bonds?
The Basset & Gold Fixed Income Bonds are a straightforward investment. Bondholders lend 
the company money in return for a fixed rate of interest paid every month, in the case of 3 
Year Bonds and 5 Year Bonds, and every six months in the case of 30 Day Easy Access 
Bonds. For more information on the investment options available to you, click [link].
Who do we lend to?
The B&G Guaranteed Income Bond seeks to maximise capital by initially focusing on short-
term lenders who provide high returns, and later expanding to various verticals including 
invoice finance, small- to medium-sized enterprise lending, and both long- and short-term 
consumer lending.
What is a SIPP?
SIPP stands for Self Invested Personal Pensions and Basset & Gold Guaranteed Income 
Bonds are suitable for these. However, this does depend on the SIPPs trustee investment 
policy and you should consult your SIPP provider for further details.
I want to invest, can you help me understand the risks?
All investments carry some degree of risk. But we believe that our institutional level of 
protection, combined with our system of ring fencing your capital, affords you a level of 
protection which rivals that of any bank or building society. For more information, please 
review the Risk Factors section in the Invitation Document available through the application 
section.
How do I invest?
Applying is simple and should not take more than a few minutes. You should start off by 
registering online and follow the instructions to apply. Once completed you can purchase 
your bonds by bank transfer, debit card (if available to you) or cheque. We do not accept 
subscription in cash.
Are there any limits on who can purchase the bonds?
The bonds are available to any individual who is over 18 and resides in the UK (excluding 
the Channel Islands). We also accept trusts or companies that are residents in the UK and 
are not prevented by law against obtaining or holding the Basset & Gold Guaranteed Income 
Bonds. For more information, click here.
On this page consumers are invited to press a INVEST NOW! button, which begins the 
application process. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show that 
consumers such as Mr W first arrived at a page titled APPLY NOW TO BECOME AN 
INVESTOR which asks the consumer to provide some basic details. The next page is titled 
PLEASE SELECT THE MOST ACCURATE INVESTOR PROFILE FROM THE LIST BELOW and asks the consumer to select from EVERYDAY INVESTOR, SELF 
CERTIFIED SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR or ADVISED INVESTOR. 
Mr W selected EVERYDAY INVESTOR, which was described as follows: 
What Is An Everyday Investor?
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make more than 
10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property excluding
your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. illiquid). This is why 
the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors'.
Having selected this profile, Mr W was then asked to make a statement, confirmation and 
declaration as follows: 
Everyday Investor Statement
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to non-
readily realisable securities and investments as a restricted investor.
I declare that I qualify as a restricted investor because both of the following apply:
In the preceding twelve months, I have not invested more than 10% of my net assets in non-
readily realisable securities.
I undertake that in the following twelve months, I will not invest more than 10% of my net 
assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan secured 
on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance;
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the termination 
of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my dependents are), or 
may be, entitled.
Investment Duration
I confirm that I am aware that the minimum duration of the current bonds on offer are as 
follows:
Cash Bond: 30 business days.
3 Year Monthly Income Bond: 3 years.
5 Year Monthly Income Bond: 5 years.
Compounding High-Yield Bond: 5 years.
Pensioner Bonds: 1 year extendable up to 5 years.
DeclarationI accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in 
advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with 
this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or liquidating
assets to invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing via a SIPP/SSAS 
created specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable Security. I will retain
access to sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am aware the Bond is intended to 
be an income producing product and not a product that provides capital growth.
I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of this 
declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation.
Mr G was required to click Next to make the required statement, confirmation and 
declaration. Having done this, he would then have arrived at a page titled JUST A FEW 
MORE QUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) which included the following multiple choice 
questions and answers, and a concluding confirmation: 
These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for you. 
Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET & 
GOLD BONDS?
The bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds
Yes I can transfer them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET AND GOLD BONDS?
is the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back at the end).
is dependent on movements in the financial bond and equity markets.
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
No, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested.
Yes, my capital is secure and I have no risk of losing.
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD 
SHARES?
Yes
No
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN 
INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
That you should invest all of your money into a single bond.That you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as other less risky 
investments.
I confirm that I have read, understood and agree to Basset Gold Ltds terms and conditions 
of service and confirm that I would like to become a client of Basset Gold Ltd and receive 
financial promotions from time to time.
If any question was answered incorrectly the website displayed the following message (at 
the point of the particular question being answered incorrectly):
You have selected an incorrect answer. If this was an error please correct your answer, 
however please consider that if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it 
might not be suitable for you.
Mr W completed the full process, so clearly answered the questions correctly  but it is not 
known if he answered any questions incorrectly initially and changed his answers, having 
seen this message. 
Answering the questions correctly allowed the consumer to move the to the final stages, 
which involved selecting an ISA or bond, selecting which of the three products detailed on 
the website they wanted to invest in, and how much they wanted to invest. After completing 
these final stages consumers were able to click on a box to open the Invitation Document for 
the bond. However, it was not mandatory to do this  consumers were able to proceed 
without opening the Invitation Document. Mr W has told us he has no recollection of seeing 
the Invitation Document. 
Galliums response to Mr Ws complaint 
In its response to Mr Ws complaint Gallium said it didnt agree it needed to compensate him 
for the money hed lost. It said, in short, that it wasnt the issuer of the bonds  instead it had 
approved the marketing material  so it could not be responsible for how the invested money 
had been used outside the period for which it was responsible. It referred Mr W to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Mr W asked the FSCS for help, but as he had invested his money during the period when 
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium, it would not consider a 
claim and suggested Mr W go back to Gallium or refer a complaint to us.  
After Mr W referred his complaint to us, Gallium sent us submissions and also provided us 
with a copy of what it described as its position statement, which set out general information 
on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds. I have considered these when 
reaching my provisional decision. 
Our investigators view 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary: 
The investment Mr W made was in a mini-bond, which is a non-readily realisable 
security. As such it could only be promoted to retail clients if certain conditions are 
met. These conditions were set out in the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook at 
COBS 4.7.7 and the rules about appropriateness were set out in COBS 10. 
The point of the online application as well as gathering basic contact information was 
to ascertain what type of investor Mr W was and whether he had relevant knowledge and experience applicable to the investment he was applying for.
But the questions that Mr W had to answer in order for BG Ltd to assess if the 
investment was appropriate for Mr W were basic and not specifically related to the 
investment Mr W was applying for. As such he was not persuaded that Mr Ws 
answers wouldve allowed BG Ltd to determine if the investment was appropriate for 
Mr W.
He also thought it fair to say that if the questions in the online application had asked 
even some basic information about Mr Ws previous investment experience BG Ltd 
wouldve known that Mr W might not have met the requirements of the FCA rules. 
During the 14 August 2017 call, Mr W asked questions about how any Bank of 
England base rate changes would affect the interest rate of his investment. As one of 
the questions Mr W had to answer was about the bond interest rate this shouldve 
made BG Ltd aware that the investment might not have been appropriate for Mr W 
and he had not answered its questions accurately.
Also during the call Mr W was told inaccurately that his capital would be completely 
secure, the bond was asset backed and that BG Ltd/B&G Plc were regulated 
businesses. The information provided to Mr W during the call conflicted with the 
information Mr W wouldve needed to provide to correctly answer the questions 
asked in the online application.
The investment was a higher risk one. But during the call Mr W was told that his 
capital was completely secure. As Mr W was looking for a low risk investment that 
would provide security for his capital, he thought it reasonable to conclude that being 
told the capital was completely secure by BG Ltd would have had an impact on Mr 
Ws decision to invest.
Risk warnings were given during the online application but they were contained 
within the small print below the next button which Mr W needed to press to proceed 
with the application. As such he could not be sure Mr W would have seen this 
warning. Even if the warning had been given sufficient prominence, he could not 
reasonably conclude that Mr W would have known this was a higher risk investment 
from the warning alone. It doesnt say the investment is higher risk and as Mr W 
wasnt an experienced investor, it was fair to say that he would put more weight on 
what he was told during the call with BG Ltd.
If a fair and reasonable appropriateness assessment had been carried out in line with 
the applicable rules, BG Ltd should have concluded that the investment wasnt 
appropriate for Mr W. 
If this had been the case the rules required BG Ltd to warn Mr W that the investment 
wasnt appropriate for him. In this case he did not think Mr W would have wanted to 
proceed with the investment. Mr W wanted a safe, capital secure investment. This 
was not what Mr W was investing in and had this been made clear it was more likely 
than not that Mr W wouldve looked to invest his monies differently.
The investigator also said he did not think the Invitation Document was clear, fair and not 
misleading, as required by the FCAs rules. 
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:Mr W hadnt detailed why he thought the bond had been mis-sold  though it 
appreciated our inquisitorial remit, it felt we had gone significantly beyond the scope 
of the complaint made. It thought the case ought to have been dismissed as Mr W 
had not established a proper basis for a complaint. 
It is important to recognise when appropriateness testing or suitability testing is 
required. As businesses structure their approach based on this, any incorrect 
application can wholly undermine their business model. There is significant cost to 
designing and implementing the approach. Our investigator had not applied the 
requirements correctly.
COBS 10.2.6G allowed BG Ltd to have relied on knowledge when assessing whether 
Mr W understood the risks in relation to the product.
COBS 10.2.2R says it may be appropriate to ask about similar investment 
experience but there is no requirement to do that in each case. And the regulator 
provided guidance to the crowdfunding industry allowing firms to satisfy themselves 
of what information was pertinent to their investment process  this meant the 
regulator did not insist on questions about education or prior investment experience 
had to be included. This was confirmed in the regulators 2014 policy statement (PS 
14/4) too. 
The bonds were not complex products  it involved lending money to B&G Plc, at a 
fixed rate of return which was contingent on B&G Plc generating sufficient revenue 
from its lending activities to meet its obligations to investors.
The FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around appropriateness since 
Mr W made his investment, and the regulatory environment has changed. At the time 
of the investment, however, the FCA had publicly articulated different expectations. 
We must apply regulatory expectations as they existed at the relevant time and not 
seek to apply the different standards that exist today in a retrospective manner. 
In 2014 there had been discussions between the FCA and crowdfunding industry as 
to what the FCA expected businesses to do to ensure investments were appropriate 
for investors. The guidance took the form of two question and answer sessions with 
the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UK Crowdfunding Association (UKCFA). 
These sessions addressed, in particular, the question of whether investor experience 
and education needed to form part of an appropriateness assessment. Gallium had 
regard to this guidance when considering BG Ltds appropriateness testing. 
Its understands that guidance provided by the FCA in those industry meetings 
clarified that firms were able to satisfy themselves of what information was pertinent 
to their investment process. Importantly, in appropriate circumstances, the FCA 
would not insist on an appropriateness test containing questions about education or 
prior investment experience.
BG Ltds appropriateness test (this refers to the JUST A FEW MORE QUESTIONS 
(REQUIRED BY LAW) set out above) was adequate  information was obtained 
about an investors knowledge and experience of the key characteristics of the 
bonds.
Mr W confirmed he had invested in similar products within the last 30 months, that he 
was familiar with the type of investment, and he had accepted other confirmations 
along the lines that bond might expose him to significant risk of losing all his money. 
Mr W also confirmed he had read and understood the Invitation Document, inclusive of the risk warnings on pages 27  31 of that document. 
If Mr W got any of the appropriateness questions wrong, he would have been 
presented with a warning. If he then changed an answer to the correct one, he would 
have been considered as correcting his knowledge. 
BG Ltd was entitled to rely on the answers Mr W gave. It would not be fair or 
reasonable to expect Mr W to have given misleading answers. Had he done so, there 
is no basis to suppose he would have given accurate information had further 
questions been asked. 
Ultimately, BG Ltd was entitled to conclude Mr W had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the same or similar products to understand the risks involved such that 
the investment was appropriate for him. The investigator had disregarded the 
confirmations and appropriateness test responses given  and had reached a wholly 
irrational and unsupported conclusion.
The available evidence demonstrated that being notified of any lack of diversification 
of B&G Plcs lending activities would not have deterred Mr W from investing, as it did 
not cause him to disinvest when he became aware of it following the January 2019 
update email. 
In any event, it demonstrates that Mr W became aware of the concentration risk in 
2019, had the option to seek to exit his investment in the bonds, and chose not to do 
so. His loss is not therefore caused by having failed to understand the level of 
concentration risk posed by the bonds at the time of purchase; it is caused by his 
decision not to exit his investment when that risk was made clear to him in 2019.
Mr W made his application, gave confirmations, and completed the appropriateness 
test prior to his conversation with BG Ltd on 14 August 2017  so any 
representations made then could not be said to have influenced his decision to apply 
for the bonds.
Though our investigator said Mr W wanted a safe, secure, low risk investment, the 
redress proposed said he didnt want to risk any of his capital. This is inconsistent 
with the warnings Mr W saw when applying for the bond  every page of the process 
contained a risk warning, he accepted that he may be exposed to a significant risk of 
losing all his money, the appropriateness test confirmed understanding that capital 
was at risk and the invitation document outlined the risks. So it cannot now be 
suggested Mr W didnt want to risk any of his money.
The 6.22% interest rate evidences Mr W knew the investment was not risk free  the 
Bank of England Base Rate was only 0.25% so its not realistic to suggest he did not 
appreciate or accept the risk. Our investigator had misunderstood the risk-reward 
nature of securities markets and if every investor who had acknowledged their capital 
was at risk were to become entitled to capital protection this would bring about the 
end of retail participation in investment markets.
Gallium also said it did not agree with the investigators finding the Invitation Document did 
not meet the regulatory standard of clear, fair and not misleading. 
After receiving this response our investigator shared some evidence with Gallium. This 
included two recordings of the calls I refer to above  those that took place on 11 and 14 
August 2017. Having reviewed these Gallium was not minded to change its position. So     
Mr Ws complaint was passed to me to consider.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2022 and upheld the complaint. As I set out my 
findings again below, I wont repeat them here. 
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. Gallium said it did not accept the majority of my 
findings but, based on my findings under the heading  Mr Ws calls with BG Ltd, it was 
prepared to accept that representatives of BG Ltd communicated with Mr W during those 
calls in a manner that was not clear, fair, and not misleading. It said that, as a matter of law, 
it was questionable whether a call which takes place after an investment has been made can 
be relied upon in reaching a conclusion as to what the investor understood about the 
investment at the point it was entered into, but it had decided to take a pragmatic view, and 
was prepared to pay compensation as set out in my provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive first reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this 
complaint is one I can look at. And I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional 
findings on this. So Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Gallium nor Mr W provided any substantive comments on my provisional findings. 
So I see no reason to depart from those findings. As I have not been persuaded to depart 
from my findings, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, and I have 
repeated my provisional findings below.
Is the complaint one I can look at?
There are a number of jurisdiction tests that must be met in relation to all complaints referred 
to us. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made by an eligible 
complainant, be about the acts or omissions of a regulated business, be about a regulated 
activity carried on from an establishment in the United Kingdom, and be brought within the 
time limits set out in the rules. 
In this case there is no question Mr W is an eligible complainant, that what he complains 
about was an activity carried on from an establishment in the United Kingdom, and that his 
complaint was brought within the time limits set out in the rules. There no dispute, as such, 
about whether Mr Ws complaint is about a regulated activity  but Gallium does dispute 
what acts we should be considering under this complaint. And, as BG Ltd and B&G Plc were 
appointed representatives of Gallium, I need to be satisfied the complaint is about acts or 
omissions for which Gallium accepted responsibility and the complaint is therefore about 
acts or omissions of Gallium. So I have considered these points. 
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them. 
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility). This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA): 
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same 
extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative 
in carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So to answer these points I need to: 
Identify the specific acts the complaint relates to.
Consider whether those acts are regulated activities or ancillary to regulated 
activities.
Consider whether Gallium was responsible for those activities by reason of s39 
FSMA (i.e. whether the complaint is therefore about acts or omissions of Gallium).  
What are the specific acts the complaint relates to?
As mentioned, there is some dispute from Gallium about what we should be looking at when 
considering Mr Ws complaint. Gallium says our investigator made findings on matters 
significantly beyond the scope of the complaint Mr W has made. It also said complainants 
must establish a proper basis for a complaint about Gallium to be upheld and Mr [Ws] 
complaint did not do that. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum.  A complaint 
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. As 
recognised by the High Court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 
2142, our service deals with complaints, not causes of action. Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial, 
not adversarial. 
Mr W is clearly not financially sophisticated and his complaint is vaguely put  he simply 
says he thinks the bond was mis-sold to him. But Mr W is referring to the sale of the bond 
when making his complaint and, by describing the sale as a mis-sale, he is clearly saying 
he thinks the bond was unsuitable or inappropriate for him  or was misrepresented to him in 
some way. And its clear from the available evidence Mr W does not understand the 
investment he made. In these circumstances, I think it is appropriate to consider all the acts 
or omissions which relate to the sale of the bond. That will include:
The advertising/marketing of the bond  both on the bassetgold.co.uk website and 
the wider internet. 
The online application process. 
Any other interactions Mr W had with BG Ltd or B&G Plc relating to the bond.
In this case I think that means the focus is therefore on the acts or omissions of BG Ltd, as it 
was BG Ltd which was responsible for the advertising/marketing of the bond and the online 
application process. And it was BG Ltd who Mr W spoke to before and after submitting his 
application. 
Are the acts the complaint relates to regulated activities or ancillary to regulated 
activities?
The bond was a security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mr W 
made his investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in 
investments. This regulated activity was defined in Article 25 as: 
25. Arranging deals in investments
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a)  a security
 is a specified kind of activity.
(2)  Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling within paragraph (1)(a)  
(whether as principal or agent) is also a specified kind of activity.
Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it 
off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 
25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I 
am satisfied the online application process and the conversations Mr W had with BG Ltd 
before and after making his application both fall within the scope of Article 25(1). These all 
involved making arrangements for Mr W to invest in the bond, and had the direct effect of 
bringing about the transaction. I am further satisfied the advertising/marketing of the bond 
was ancillary to these acts. 
So I am satisfied Mr Ws complaint is about regulated activities. 
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint relates to? 
As mentioned, I think the acts Mr Ws complaint relates to were all carried out by BG Ltd. So 
I have looked at the agreement between Gallium and BG Ltd to see if they are acts Gallium 
accepted responsibility for. 
The appointed representative agreement (which I note mistakenly refers to Basset & Gold 
Ltd, rather than Basset Gold Ltd) at Section 3, The Appointment said at (i):
The Company (i.e. Gallium) hereby appoints the AR (i.e. BG Ltd) as an agent of the 
Company for the purpose only of carrying on the Business including introducing applications 
by associates of the AR for new contracts, for submission to Exempt Investors specifically by 
the AR and approved by the Company
And at (iii) in the same section, the agreement said: 
The Company hereby grants the AR the right under its authorisation with the FCA to give 
advice (only in accordance with the rules of the FCA and the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000) in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing in investment products for 
present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to display, advertise, promote, 
demonstrate and offer for sale at or from premises subject to the terms contained hereunder 
for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same and in relation thereto use the 
Company's as well as its own trade name. The Company hereby accepts responsibility, to 
the same extent as if it had expressly permitted it, for anything the AR does or omits to do in 
the carrying on the business for which the Company has accepted liability.
Where Business was defined as:.. the promoting activities in respect of potential or existing collective investment schemes, 
or corporate bonds where the Company has approved the financial promotion.
And where Exempt Investors was defined as:
persons to whom promotions may lawfully be made, such persons being exempt 
under FSMA 2000 (The Financial Promotions Order 2005, for example: Article 48 
Certified high net worth individuals
Article 50 Sophisticated Investors
Article 50A Self Certified Sophisticated Investors
Article 51 Association of high net worth or sophisticated Investors
And for corporate bonds only:
Persons who confirm that they will receive regulated investment advice from an FCA 
authorised person
Persons who certify that they will not invest more than 10% of their net investable 
financial assets.
So, in relation to corporate bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting 
activitieswhere the Company has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed 
BG Ltd the right under its authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with 
advising, arranging, or dealing in investment products for present and prospective clients 
and in connection therewith to display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of 
promoting the sale of the same. 
In this case, Gallium had approved the financial promotion of the bond Mr W invested in and, 
as part of the application process (at the EVERYDAY INVESTOR stage), Mr W had been 
asked to declare he would not invest more than 10% of his net assets in non-readily 
realisable securities. And the acts the complaint is about were all done in connection with 
arranging Mr Ws investment in the bond. So I am satisfied the acts the complaint is about 
are acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and 
can be considered in a complaint against it. 
As I am satisfied Mr Ws complaint is one I can look at I will now consider all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Gallium met its regulatory obligations when BG Ltd, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts 
the complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here. The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here: 
COBS 4.2.1R: 
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not 
misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below 
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time. 
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a direct-
offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for communication 
to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial promotion is 
one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in relation to 
the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on appropriateness (see COBS 
10) or equivalent requirements for any application or order that the person is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, is in response to the direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 4.7.10R
A certified restricted investor is an individual who has signed, within the period of twelve 
months ending with the day on which the communication is made, a statement in the following terms:
RESTRICTED INVESTOR STATEMENT
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to 
non-readily realisable securities as a restricted investor. I declare that I qualify as a 
restricted investor because:
(a) in the twelve months preceding the date below, I have not invested more than 
10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities; and
(b) I undertake that in the twelve months following the date below, I will not invest 
more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan 
secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance; or
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the 
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my 
dependants are), or may be entitled; or
(d) any withdrawals from my pension savings (except where the withdrawals are 
used directly for income in retirement).
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. I am aware that it 
is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising on 
non-readily realisable securities.
Signature:
Date:
COBS 10  Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial 
promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order 
to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded;
COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone 
is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service. Where 
reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3 Warning the client
COBS 10.3.1R
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must 
warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R
(1)  If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge and 
experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the firm to 
determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 10.3.3G 
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by 
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
I note Gallium has also referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA.I have had regard to 
the policy statement, and to Galliums recollections of the two question and answer sessions. 
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, my provisional conclusion is as follows:The advertising or marketing of the bond by BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, was not 
consistent with Galliums regulatory obligations. It was not clear, fair and not 
misleading. By advertising or marketing the bond in the way it did, BG Ltd did not act 
in a way that was in Mr Ws best interests, or treat him fairly. Had BG Ltds 
advertising or marketing been clear, fair and not misleading Mr W would likely have 
concluded the bond was not the sort of investment for him. 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, led Mr W into certifying himself as belonging in a 
category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and asking for this certification in the context 
of the misleading information about the bond it had given. This was not treating Mr W 
fairly or acting in best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr W, 
it is unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted investor. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr W. In the circumstances Mr W would 
either not have proceeded to invest in the bond or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG 
Ltd should have concluded it should not allow Mr W to invest. 
Mr W was given further information which was not fair, clear and not misleading 
during the calls he had with BG Ltd on 11 and 14 August. Had BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at this time Mr 
W would likely have realised the investment was not appropriate for him and BG Ltd 
should, in any event, have drawn that conclusion given the clear lack of 
understanding Mr W showed during these calls. 
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my provisional decision is that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. 
BG Ltds advertising /marketing
Mr W has told us he first came across B&G Plcs bond when searching online for accounts 
with good interest rates. Gallium has told us BG Ltd created online advertising material  
such as Google and Facebook adverts  which it approved. It has not provided copies of this 
advertising material. And I have only seen one example of the advertising material BG Ltd 
used at the time, which is a Google advert which carries the tagline Pensioner Bonds Are 
Back  Achieve Your Retirement Goals. This referred to a return of 4.24% per year, paid 
monthly and included four links, one of which was to Monthly Income Bonds, which 
directed to bassetgold.co.uk. However, as Mr W cannot remember what he saw I cannot be 
sure it was the advertisement which led him to the website. But what is clear is that he did 
search on the internet and was led to the website  and so I have focussed here on what   
Mr W would have seen on the website at the time. 
I have set out in the background the initial pages of the website which would have been seen 
by Mr W. In my view, much of the material on the website at the time was not consistent with 
Galliums regulatory obligation to communicate in a way which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. In my view, it was not fair or reasonable for BG Ltd (representing Gallium) to 
communicate in relation to the bond in the way it did on the website and, by doing this, it did 
not pay due regard to the interests of Mr W and treat him fairly.
Before setting out my findings in more detail I want to first comment on a point made by 
Gallium in its response to the investigators view. It says the bond Mr W invested in was a 
straightforward product, as it simply involved lending money to B&G Plc, at a fixed rate of 
return which was contingent on B&G Plc generating sufficient revenue from its lending activities to meet its obligations to investors. In my view this significantly understates the 
complexity of the product B&G Plc was offering. 
Risk factors associated with the bond included the track record of B&G Plc, the detail of its 
due diligence on the businesses it would be lending to, the criteria B&G Plc applied to its 
lending and the conditions on which the loan was made. The credit history of the business 
the loan was made to would also need to be considered, its capacity to repay, and its capital 
position. Furthermore, as the business B&G Plc was lending to was itself lending, the 
lending criteria it applied, the default rate and the success of its past lending would need to 
be considered. All of these points (and this is not an exhaustive list) would need to be 
considered in order to understand the investment. 
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  credit 
reference agencies  carry out credit analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond 
and express a view (a rating), and investment mangers often carry out further credit 
analysis before deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers 
understanding of the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a 
recognised exchange, and so could not be readily sold (in fact it seems to have been a 
condition of the investment that it could not be transferred). And, as Gallium has pointed out, 
the Invitation Document which set out the details of the bond was over 40 pages long. I have 
read the document and it contains a lot of complex technical information which may not be 
readily understood by the average investor.   
So I do not accept the bond could be reasonably described as a straightforward product. It 
was complex, risky and specialist. In my view this is why the bond fell into a category of 
investment which the FCA puts restrictions on the promotion of (something I consider in 
more detail below). 
Returning now to the website, I note it initially described the bond as a straightforward 
product with 100% of principal returned on exit and explains that B&G Plc look to provide 
every day investors with the opportunity to take advantage of an offer that has security 
levels previously available only to institutional and ultra-high net worth investors, and 
gain attractive returns. (emphasis copied from the website). 
In the At a glance section the website says the bonds are designed to be a straightforward 
investment. Bondholders receive a predetermined fixed interest rate, which is paid every 
month, six months or at maturity, depending on the option chosen. 
The question and answer section again describes the bond as a straightforward investment 
and says B&G Plcs institutional level of protection, combined with our system of ring 
fencing your capital, affords you a level of protection which rivals that of any bank or 
building society. 
In my view describing the bonds as straightforward was misleading. It was not fair and 
reasonable to describe the bonds in such a way. It was also misleading  and unfair  to 
describe, in bold, the bond as having security levels previously available only to institutional 
and ultra-high net worth investors, which ringfenced capital, institutional level of protection 
, and as an investment which offered a level of protection which rivals that of any bank or 
building society. There is no apparent basis for these statements, which appear to be 
completely at odds with the true nature of the bond. 
I acknowledge there was a risk warning that In the event that the company becomes 
insolvent, you may lose some or all of your investment and potential investors were told 
you should make sure that you fully understand the risks which are set out in the Invitation Document.. But these warnings do nothing to correct the misleading and unfair statements 
made otherwise. They also do not carry the same prominence as those statements, and are 
undermined by them. I also note, at this point, Mr W was not able to access the Invitation 
Document  and so was reliant on the selected, misleading, information BG Ltd provided. 
The website gives further misleading  and unclear  information, in relation to the regulatory 
status of the bonds. As set out in the background, in response to the question Are the 
Basset & Gold Fixed Income Bonds authorised and regulated by the FCA?, the website 
says: 
The Basset & Gold Fixed Income Bond program is approved as a financial promotion for UK 
publication by Gallium Fund Solutions Limited who are authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to conduct investment business (FRN: 431709).
However, the answer to the question is no. The bond was not authorised or regulated. It 
was correct to say Gallium, the approver of the promotion of the bond, was FCA regulated. 
But that was not the question asked. At the very least, to meet regulatory standards, the 
reference to Galliums regulatory status is not the only thing that should have been said in 
response to the question, as it puts undue emphasis on the approval of the promotion being 
done by an FCA regulated firm (and also refers to the approval as of the program, 
suggesting a more extensive role for Gallium). The response should say the bond itself does 
not come with any regulatory protection and explain there is no safety net in the event of the 
failure of the bond.
Overall, this had the effect of the bond appearing to be being something it was not - suitable 
for an average retail investor seeking a straightforward fixed interest product. I think the 
website led Mr W into believing he was investing something akin to a savings bond  not a 
complex, risky and specialist product. This was not treating Mr W fairly, or acting in his best 
interests. 
Mr W was looking for investment that would provide a good interest return without any risk to 
his capital. I think it is likely that if these first sections of the website had been clear, fair and 
not misleading Mr W would have concluded the bond was not the sort of investment for him 
and not proceeded beyond this point. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold         
Mr Ws complaint on this basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to 
consider the other acts carried out by BG Ltd in relation to the sale of the bond. 
The online application process
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the B&G Plc 
bond. As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. The online application took steps toward meeting the 
regulatory obligations which applied here. I have set out above the rules detailing each of 
these sets of obligations. I will consider the steps taken by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, in 
relation to each in turn. 
Certification
The first condition, set by COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mr W, to be certified 
as being in one of four categories of investor. In this case, Mr W was certified as a restricted 
investor. Although when completing its process for this BG Ltd did not use this term  it 
instead used the term everyday investor. 4.7.10R sets out how a retail client can be certified to be a restricted investor. The 
statement, confirmation and declaration Mr W was asked to make included some of the 
wording set out in 4.7.10R  but not all of it. And additions had been made. The title of the 
statement also departed from the wording set out in 4.7.10R  it was described as a 
Everyday Investor Statement. So the certification was not completed in a way which was 
compliant with the rules. 
I have considered the changes to the wording set out in 4.7.10R and also the overall context 
to Mr W making the statement, confirmation and declaration  including the basis on which 
Mr W was brought to the point of making them, which I have set out in the previous section 
of this decision. 
As set out in the background above, Mr W was offered the option of three investor profiles, 
after he had completed the first stages of his application. The options, other than everyday 
investor were self certified sophisticated investor or advised investor. 
In my view, the change of the term restricted investor to everyday investor had the effect 
of making the restricted investor category appear to be one into which retail investors like  
Mr W would naturally fall.  
Restricted is, by its common and ordinary meaning, something which is limited in amount 
or range. Synonyms include words like limited, constricted and controlled. Everyday is, by 
its common and ordinary meaning, something which ordinary, typical or usual. So the 
change of the term was likely to alter how it was perceived. The What Is An Everyday 
Investor? question and answer (Anyone can become an Everyday Investor) also has this 
effect. 
In my view this put undue emphasis on the everyday investor option, and led consumers 
like Mr W to selecting this option when they may not have done so otherwise. I do not think it 
was fair or reasonable for BG Ltd to act in this way. It was not treating Mr W fairly or acting in 
best interests. BG Ltd ought to have known that changing the term created a risk of 
consumers perceiving a restricted investor to be something different to what it was, and 
certifying themselves incorrectly as a result, and risked consumers skipping through this as a 
formality.
When our investigator asked Mr W which of the categories he thought he would fall into he 
immediately said everyday investor  he didnt pause to think, ask for a definition, or 
question it, just said he was everyday. I think this illustrates the point well  an everyday 
investor is an option Mr W immediately understood or could resonate with. In my view Mr W 
was attracted to this profile based on his understanding and perception of the word 
everyday.
As set out in the previous section Mr W had, by this point, already been misled as to the 
nature of the bonds. So he arrived at the point of being asked if he was an everyday 
investor having been told the bonds were straightforward, with high levels of security and 
protection. This is likely to have been at the forefront of his mind, and to have given him 
confidence to select the everyday option. 
Mr W did not qualify as a restricted investor. Mr W had around £65,000 in savings at the time 
of investment, which was split with around £40,000 on deposit and £25,000 in a fixed rate 
cash ISA. His £15,000 investment therefore represented 23% of his net assets. He was also 
not aware of the bonds had risk associated with them and had not made investments in 
similar products in the last 30 months. And so he should not have made the statement, 
confirmation and declaration. However, I think it unlikely Mr W knowingly gave a false statement. I think it instead likely 
that he did not consider the detail of what he was being asked to agree to as he understood 
it to be everyday i.e. ordinary, typical or usual, and was encouraged by the misleading 
assurances as to straightforwardness, security and protection which he had seen on the 
website before reaching this stage. These assurances are likely to have been at the forefront 
of his mind and he may well have viewed the statement, confirmation and declaration as a 
formality and not therefore have considered the detail. 
I also think it is unlikely Mr W would have made the statement at all, had he not been misled 
as to the nature of the bonds, had the correct restricted investor term being used and had 
the website not presented the restricted investor category was one into which he would 
naturally fall. I also think it unlikely he would have described himself as a self certified 
sophisticated investor or advised investor as it would have been clear from the 
descriptions of those categories that he did not fit into them. 
So I am satisfied if BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet Galliums regulatory obligations Mr W would not have got beyond this stage. And I 
think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ws complaint on this basis alone. I have 
however, for completeness, gone on to consider the other acts carried out by BG Ltd in 
relation to the sale of the bond.
Appropriateness 
The second condition, set by COBS 4.7.7R, required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on 
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section 
above. 
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, to ask 
Mr W to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience  and for this 
information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required 
that information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mr W did have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the 
rule). 
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, when 
considering what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the 
type of product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
In my view BG Ltd failed to ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mr Ws 
knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R. 
BG Ltd did not refer to an appropriateness test on the website  it instead referred to just a 
few more questions (required by law). As set out above, under this, it asked five questions 
which tested knowledge. These questions asked whether Mr W knew if the bonds were 
transferable, if the return was fixed, if their capital was secure, if the bonds could be 
converted to shares and the meaning of diversification. Nothing was asked about Mr Ws experience. And if Mr W got a question wrong, he would be told his answer was wrong and 
prompted to reconsider it. 
Even if Mr W did know the correct answer to all five questions without prompting (which 
seems very unlikely, as his interactions with us show he has very limited knowledge, and no 
experience) this only showed he understood the bonds were not transferrable, the return 
was fixed, capital was at risk, whether the bonds could be converted into shares and was 
able to select a correct answer from two options as to what the definition of diversification 
was. 
This falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mr W had the knowledge to 
understand the risk associated with the bonds  particularly in circumstances were the 
multiple-choice options were limited to two and Mr W was allowed repeated efforts to get 
them right. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for 
example, a question of whether Mr W simply understood money could be lost  but whether 
he was able to understand how likely that might be and what factors might lead to it 
happening. 
BG Ltd did ask Mr W to declare, at the previous stage I am familiar with this type of 
investment. and I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months. So it 
might argue it did have some information about Mr Ws experience, and additional 
information about his knowledge. However, even accounting for the declaration, an 
appropriate level of information was not asked for. I also think the declaration could not 
reasonably be relied on when, at the point of giving it, Mr W had been led to believe the type 
of investment or product was a straightforward one where there was a high level of 
protection and security and may have viewed it as a formality due to it being described as 
part of something everyday. 
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable to carry out the 
assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been confident, from the 
information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mr W had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it was 
not in a position to make such an assessment, based on the information it obtained. 
Gallium refers to 10.2.6G which says there may be circumstances in which a firm may be 
satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks 
involved in a product or service. 
I do not think these were such circumstances  not least because BG Ltd did not ask for an 
appropriate amount of information about Mr Ws knowledge. The guidance in any event does 
not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to apply where the client has been 
asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules require, and the information 
obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It does not say a business can ask 
only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness test. 
Gallium also refers to industry conferences with the FCA. But I have seen no evidence to 
show it was told by the FCA that it did not have to follow the rules i.e. that it did not have to 
ask about experience at all. In any event  and notwithstanding what I say above about 
COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G - as it did not ask for sufficient information about Mr Ws 
knowledge it was not in a position to assess whether his knowledge alone was sufficient. 
Gallium also suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around 
appropriateness since Mr W made his investment in 2017, and the regulatory environment 
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the 
time. Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/04. This relates to the regulation of 
firms operating online crowdfunding platforms or conducting other similar activities. I have 
read the statement. In my view it simply confirms the rules on appropriateness apply and 
must be followed. I note, for example, the statement confirms, at 4.24, that firms are required 
to assess whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
risk involved. In relation to the crowdfunding coming under its regulation the FCAs proposal 
(which was adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that clients 
have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved before being 
invited to respond to an offer
The policy statement does not therefore change my view that BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not meet its regulatory obligations. 
Had the process been consistent with what the rules required - had Mr W been asked for 
appropriate information about his knowledge and experience - the only reasonable 
conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mr W did not have 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the bond. 
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1 R said a warning must 
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning. 
But this envisages the test being completed, and a result determined, before the warning 
was given. As BG Ltd designed the test the only warning was in response to incorrect 
answers and simply said if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it 
might not be suitable for you. In my view this does not meet what is required by COBS 
10.3.1R, which is a warning that the product is not appropriate. And, by allowing Mr W the 
opportunity to effectively silence the warning through selecting a different answer, the impact 
of it was reduced in any event. The process also did not give BG Ltd the opportunity to 
whether in the circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mr W wished to proceed, 
despite the warning. 
In my view a warning which told Mr W clearly an investment in the bond was not appropriate 
for him would likely have put Mr W off proceeding further. That is a clear, emphatic 
statement which would have left Mr W in no doubt the bond was not an appropriate 
investment for him. And this statement should of course have been given alongside clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the bond which did not leave Mr W with the 
impression the investment was a straightforward one where there was a high level of 
protection and security. 
Furthermore, had BG Ltd given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances 
whether to go ahead with the transaction if Mr W wished to proceed, having asked for 
appropriate information about Mr Ws knowledge and experience, it would have been fair 
and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should not allow Mr W to proceed. Had Mr W been 
asked for appropriate information about his knowledge and experience this would have 
shown he may not have the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond. 
As I set out below, it is clear Mr W did not have even a basic understanding of investments 
such as the bond - he simply did not understand the product he was investing in. In these 
circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should 
proceed if Mr W wanted to, despite a warning. 
All in all, I am satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably when assessing appropriateness. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to meet the relevant 
regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mr W would not have got beyond 
this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ws complaint on this 
basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to consider the other acts carried 
out by BG Ltd in relation to the sale of the bond.
Mr Ws calls with BG Ltd
As noted above, I have been provided with recordings of conversations Mr W had with BG 
Ltd. And I have listened to the two which I think are key  the one preceding Mr Ws 
investment application and the one immediately following it.  
In my view these recordings show two things. Firstly, that Mr W was given further information 
by B&G Ltd which was not clear, fair and not misleading. And, secondly, that Mr W lacked 
even a basic understanding of the product he was investing in. 
Having failed to complete an adequate appropriateness test  and hence not being in a 
position to assess whether Mr W had the capacity to fully understand the risk associated 
with the investment  BG Ltd had the opportunity to correct that during the second call. It 
also had the opportunity to correct the clear misunderstanding Mr W had reached (perhaps 
as a result of the misleading information it had provided to him earlier) during both calls. 
However, it instead compounded matters. And this is a further example of it not treating     
Mr W fairly or acting in his best interests. 
The call preceding Mr Ws investment application took place on 11 August 2017. At the 
outset of this call BG Ltds representative says they are calling in regards to some 
information you requested about our savings bonds. Mr W says thats right I was looking 
online atthe application form. BG Ltds representative then says I can see it came 
through as you began but, erm, it didnt come through as completed. Were you looking to 
make an application? to which Mr W said um, I thought Id completed it.
Following this, Mr W says, when asked what he was looking for that it was err, the 3 year 
bonds, the cash bonds. BG Ltds representative then says they will send link to the 
application, and follow up to let him know when it comes through. 
I think two things emerge from this initial exchange  that Mr W does not understand the 
bond and that BG Ltd continued to misrepresent the bond. Cash bond and savings bonds 
are terms used to describe deposit-based products offered by banks and building societies  
not complex, risky and specialised unlisted debt securities like the B&G Plc bonds. 
As the call continues, Mr W attempts to explain why he may have failed to submit the 
application. He says I think what I did was, er, I thought Id completed it and then I ticked the 
box at the bottom and it went on to the, erm, the pages of your policy. In reply BG Ltds 
representative says I know what youve done, theres a button which says download 
Information Document (sic), what youve probably done is thats opened a new window. 
Youve probably come off off that and not actually submitted it. BG Ltds representative then 
offers the following advice: 
What I would suggest doing is that next time you go in to complete the application, when 
you get to that last bit, erm, dont press download invitation document just leave that there, 
click the two buttons underneath then press submit and it will come though. Cause we send 
you all the information anyway.I wouldnt worry too much about that
In my view, this further illustrates Mr Ws lack of understanding, in describing the Invitation 
Document as a policy document. But the key point here is BG Ltds representative advises Mr W not to open the Invitation Document and to not worry too much about that. It does 
say that Mr W would sent a copy of the Invitation Document through the post. But, on my 
understanding, that would not happen until after the investment had been made. So Mr W 
was effectively advised not to consider the Invitation Document before investing  in 
circumstances where BG Ltd ought to have known, or suspected, Mr W did not understand 
the product. And BG Ltd downplayed the importance of the Invitation Document. Acting fairly 
and reasonably BG Ltd should have said the bond was a complex high risk investment to 
which the regulator attached restrictions on its promotion. And that the Invitation Document 
was an important document which should be considered in full before any investment 
decision was made. 
The call immediately following Mr Ws investment application took place on 14 August 2017. 
During the call BG Ltds representative asks Mr W did you have any questions regarding the 
application itself?. One question Mr W asks is I get guaranteed every months the interest 
paid into the account? to which BG Ltds representative replies thats it, yeah, every month 
Mr W then asks: 
I did read in the small print, you know in the policy information, what happens if the 
government say decides to put interest rates up by 1%? Then it, erm, it says that youre not 
likely to, erm, to receive or you could lose the amount that you invested originally - youre not 
forced to get back what you invested. Is that, is the government, erm?
In reply BG Ltds representative says:
Right, so in terms of the actual securities, I mean weve got everything in terms of your 
investment, your capital is completely secured by asset backed, so its fully asset backed, 
erm so in terms of the actual erm interest rate, now naturally as you probably declared on 
the application youll have seen it always says that theres an element of risk involved just to 
point out this is an investment and its not a deposit, so theres always going to be an 
element of, you know, risk in terms of it, but of course weve got 100% success rate as you 
can see on our website and we are a regulated company so we can only put on there what is 
true, so weve never missed an interest payment, weve never you know never lost a penny 
of anyones capital or anything like that, erm its just due to the fact its an investment we 
have to advise that theres an element of risk involved erm, but every single penny of your 
investment is completely covered by assets as well as the fact that weve got the FSCS 
coverage £50,000 that is in terms of the initial sale, arranging and marketing of the bond and 
of course youve also got the fact that we are a regulated company as well but, erm, we just 
have to put the disclaimer out there thats all
Mr W then asks:
Yeah, so just going back to that question if the government were to put interest rates up 
what would happen to, the, my interest would it, it wouldnt affect my interest, would it, if its 
fixed?
In reply BG Ltds representative says:
I would assume so no, because it is fixed it isnt dependent on anything, we deal with back to 
back investments so it makes no difference to us because weve already got the deals in 
place, so we already know how much is going to be paid to us before we actually release the 
investment amount, if that makes sense? Erm, so weve got the deals in place already so we 
know exactly how much we can pay you, so its not dependent on performance of anywhere 
else, that doesnt factor the interest rate whatsoever. Erm, weve already got the deals and 
thats what secures the rate so your rate will not change throughout the entirety you hold the bond it would remain exactly the same 
Mr W then says
Im just a bit concerned thats all. I thought if the government put interest rates up that could 
affect the interest that Im you know, that youre giving.
In reply BG Ltds representative says:
No, it wouldnt affect erm, that, because we deal with market place lending so weve already 
got the deals, its personal deals we have that are already in place
I think BG Ltds communication here, again, was not clear, fair and not misleading  in a 
number of respects. And, again, Mr W shows a clear lack of understanding. 
When Mr W described the interest as guaranteed BG Ltd should have corrected him. Whilst 
the bond had the objective of paying interest monthly this was of course not guaranteed, and 
was subject to the multiple risk factors I have already set out. By simply agreeing to Mr Ws 
statement BG Ltd continued to mislead him. 
I also think that when Mr W begins to refer to government interest rates this suggests he 
fundamentally does not understand the bond. And I think it also shows this lack of 
comprehension was making him uncertain. However, rather than take the opportunity to at 
least check Mr Ws understanding, BG Ltd offered further misleading assurances.  
In my view the response by BG Ltd to Mr Ws questions significantly downplays the risks and 
complexities associated with the bond. The term asset backed should not have been used 
in the way it was (to persuade Mr W his investment was secured) without explaining what 
this meant i.e. what those assets were, and the basis of the security they provide. In this 
case it seems the only asset was the loan book of a sub-prime lender  and the statement 
should have been qualified on this basis. It was misleading to simply offer up the term asset 
backed as making Mr Ws investment completely secured. Particularly as reassurance to a 
concerned consumer who clearly did not understand the product. This was, by any measure, 
a high risk investment. Mr Ws money was being lent to one high risk lender  in the 
circumstances this should not have been the basis for assurances about security. 
It was also misleading to suggest the returns on the bond were already secured. A deal 
might have been in place insofar as B&G Plc had decided which business to lend to and on 
what terms. But whether that generated the anticipated returns was dependent on a number 
of factors and a fair and balanced view should have explained that although deals were in 
place to secure returns there was no guarantee that would happen, and there were multiple 
risk factors associated with this. 
BG Ltd did give a warning about risk but it did not fully warn Mr W of the risk (only saying 
there is an element) and the warning is in any event undermined by the misleading 
information given otherwise. The warning itself is also presented as a formality  something 
BG Ltd had to do as a matter of course but nothing that should concern Mr W. BG Ltd 
essentially says it is only giving risk warnings because it has to  that there is nothing to 
worry about. 
The fact B&G Plc had a 100% track record is also not something which should have been 
given as assurance without qualification. B&G Plcs track record was short and of course 
past performance is no guide to future performance. 
Gallium says Mr W had committed to invest by the point so what was said during this call cannot have had an influence. However, Mr W had not by this point sent any money. And he 
clearly had concerns. Furthermore, as mentioned, this was an opportunity for BG Ltd to 
correct things. It ought to have been clear at this stage that the bond simply was not 
appropriate for Mr W. It was obvious that he had very limited understanding and simply did 
not have the capacity to understand the Invitation Document. And so the calls ought to have 
highlighted BG Ltds failure to adequately assess appropriateness and, acting fairly and 
reasonably, it should have taken steps to address this i.e. it should have concluded the bond 
was not appropriate for Mr W. The calls were also an opportunity for BG Ltd to finally 
communicate in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading  and to therefore afford    
Mr W an opportunity to reflect on that basis. 
I am satisfied that if BG Ltd had communicated during the calls in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading, Mr W would not have proceeded to make the investment.  Had BG Ltd 
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, it should have concluded it 
should not allow Mr W to proceed, in the circumstances, in any event  as the bond was 
clearly not appropriate for Mr W. As with the previous points, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable to uphold Mr Ws complaint on this basis alone.
Invitation Document 
The investigator considered the Invitation Document. However, considering the available 
evidence, I am satisfied Mr W did not look at the Invitation Document in any detail and that 
he did not in any event have the capacity to understand it. And, for all the reasons I have 
given, I think Mr W should not have got as far as being given the opportunity to see the 
document anyway.  So I have not considered its contents here. 
The January 2019 update 
Gallium has pointed out that the January 2019 update email did not lead to Mr W taking any 
action. So it says disclosure of the lack of diversification at the time of investment would not 
have deterred Mr W from investing. It also says that when Mr W became aware of the lack of 
diversification and had the option to sell his investment, he chose not to do so. So his loss is 
not caused by having failed to understand the level of concentration risk posed by the bonds 
at the time of purchase, it is caused by his decision not to exit his investment when that risk 
was made clear to him in 2019.
As I have set out, there are a number of things which, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd 
should have done differently. And so if it is to be presupposed that a disclosure of the 
concentration risk arising from a lack of diversification of the type made in January 2019 was 
made at the time of the investment, that needs to be considered alongside all the other 
things which should have happened at the time. For all the reasons I have given, I am 
satisfied that Mr W would not have proceeded to invest, had these things happened. 
In any event, as Ive set out in my findings, I am satisfied Mr W had limited capacity to 
understand the risks associated with the bond. He simply did not have the required 
knowledge and experience. So I am not persuaded the concentration risk arising from a lack 
of diversification is something Mr W would have fully understood at the outset, had it been 
explained to him.  Setting that aside, the concentration risk was not the only risk. If a risk 
disclosure was to be made (and it is not clear when in the process Gallium considers this 
disclosure would have been made) then concentration risk should have been described as 
part of a full, balanced, explanation of all the risks  not just the concentration risk.   
I think Galliums other point is essentially that Mr W had a duty to mitigate his loss, after 
receiving the 2019 update. But I do not think it would be fair in the circumstances to say     
Mr W is responsible for the loss he has suffered due to him not reacting to this update. As mentioned, I am not persuaded he had the capacity to fully understand this risk  and he 
was in this position because BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at the outset.  
In conclusion 
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for uphold the complaint. I am satisfied, for all the 
reasons given, that Mr W would not have invested in the bond had BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. So I think it is fair to 
ask Gallium to compensate Mr W for the loss he has suffered
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr W 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond. 
I think Mr W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
It is also clear that Mr W has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment. Given his circumstances, this is money Mr W cannot afford to 
lose, nor is it money he is able to replace. I do not believe Mr W foresaw such a 
drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry he will have felt when B&G Plc 
failed. I consider a payment of £500 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
bond Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr W agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr W that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr W's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr W would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint, for the reasons given. Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should 
calculate and pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman