DRN-3297196
The complaint
Mr A complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr A is represented by his brother, Mr U.
What happened
On or around 20 June 2015, Mr A was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing two solar panel systems (the systems) to be installed at two of 
his properties. Ill refer to these as Property Y and Property Z. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr A decided to purchase the systems and 
finance them through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The systems 
were subsequently installed.
In 22 April 2017 Mr A made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. He said that P 
had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, 
and it was these misrepresentations that had induced him to enter into the contract with P. 
Mr A has alleged that:
P told him on multiple occasions that the energy stored from the system would be 
sold through the FIT scheme and the money generated would go towards the loan 
resulting in nil payments to be made by Mr A.
He has also explained: 
there was a delay registering the system to receive feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
Mr A fell behind with payments after five months. Shawbrook have added fees and 
charges which has adversely affected his credit file.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that P provided evidence showing that 
they sent the information required to register the systems to receive FIT payments in 
September 2015. However, they did acknowledge that there was a short delay and offered 
£100 to recognise this. They also explained that the fees and charges had been added to 
the account correctly and they didnt think that these should be removed. Shawbrook also 
didnt think that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided they thought that the case should be upheld. They 
thought that P had not provided Mr A with an accurate comparison of the cost and benefit of 
both systems.
Shawbrook did not respond in full to the assessment. As an agreement couldnt be reached, 
the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr A could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr A and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr A and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr As recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
P produced two separate quotes for the two systems at Property Y and Property Z. 
However, there is one loan agreement which covers the cost of both systems.
Mr As testimony
Mr A has provided his testimony explaining that he purchased the system because he was 
led to believe that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. He has said that he 
believed he wouldnt have to contribute anything towards the loan, and he purchased both 
systems on the basis that they would come at no additional cost to him.Mr A has explained that there was a delay in P providing him with the information that he 
needed to register his systems so he could receive the FIT payments. He has said that he 
was able to make his first five months payments whilst the registrations were completed. 
However, once the systems were registered, and the FIT payments he received were lower 
than his monthly loan repayments, he has been unable to maintain his contractual loan 
repayments.  
I have no reason to doubt what Mr A has said. It is difficult to understand why he would have 
entered into a 15-year loan contract which would have increased his monthly outgoings. He 
has been consistent in his testimony and I think his allegations are plausible when looking at 
the information provided by him and Shawbrook.
Cost and benefit of the system
I think its clear that the quote was a central part of the sales presentation. Mr A has 
confirmed that he also received a copy of this document. I think this document is key and I 
think it supports Mr A recollections from the point of sale and that there have been untrue 
statements of fact that induced him to enter into the contract.
The loan agreement sets out that the cash price of the goods was £16,193.00, total charge 
for credit was £15,467.20 and total amount payable is £31,660.20. The monthly loan 
repayments are £175.86. This covers the cost of both systems installed at Property Y and 
Property Z.
P provided two separate quotes to Mr A explaining the financial benefit each system would 
provide to him. 
The quote for Property Y contains a page titled repayments with a series of tables. This has 
three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table 
for 180 months this is the length of the loan that Mr A entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of £87.48 due and compares the overall 
expected grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected 
loan repayments. 
I think that this shows that Mr A could expect a monthly loss of £1.22 for the first year and 
then the system would provide a monthly profit of £3.97 and £9.52 in the second year and 
third year.The quote for Property Z contains the same table and sets out that there are 180 monthly 
payments of £84.40 due. This table suggests that Mr A would have a monthly loss of £4.24 
in year one followed by a monthly profit of £0.55 and £5.68 in year two and three.
I think it would be reasonable to expect P to provide paperwork to Mr A that accurately and 
clearly compared the cost to the benefit. However, I dont think that on this occasion this has 
happened. P have provided a detailed quotation for each system separately setting out the 
benefit in relation to the cost for each system in turn. But Mr A has one loan agreement to 
pay for both systems and therefore has one monthly repayment. Therefore, Mr A is unable to 
look at either quotation and determine his monthly cost compared to his monthly benefit and 
Im satisfied he would have relied on what the salesperson told him, that his monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments he would receive.
I also think a reasonable person would look at this and expect that they would be making a 
profit on both systems after the first year. My view is that this table does not reasonably 
represent a true picture of the situation that Mr A would not be receiving a monthly profit 
after making his loan repayments.
Based on this I think that the benefits of the systems were misrepresented to Mr A.
Delay in FIT registration
Mr A has complained that P did not provide him with all of the information required to register 
his system to receive FIT payments. As explained above, I believe that the benefits of the 
system were misrepresented, and I think the compensation explained below will take into 
account any delay in FIT registration.
Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly,
reasonably, quickly and informally.
Determining fair compensation is not always an exact science and it is more difficult in a
case like this where solar panels have been installed at the property.
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove both sets of solar panels
and refund Mr A the payments made (less any financial benefit gained from the installation 
of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the panels are 
generating green energy. I think theres an alternative that would put Mr A in a fair position.
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr A doesnt suffer a 
financial loss due to the misrepresentation which in my view would mean that both solar
panel systems should be cost neutral over the loan term  in summary, my aim is to make 
sure that total outgoings (including the monthly loan repayments) are equal to any income
and savings that the panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the
known and assumed savings and income to Mr A from both systems over the term of the 
loan, so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the systems. This should be done for each 
system. This will put Mr A in a cost neutral position over the loan term, meaning hes not 
disadvantaged by the misrepresentation.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr As monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning hes paid more each month than he shouldve resulting in an overpayment
balance. And, as Mr A has been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect a 
business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of
settlement.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A have the following options as to
how he would like the overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,c) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
Shawbrook have added fees and charges to Mr As account and have recorded negative 
entries on his credit file. I think it would be reasonable for all fees and charges to be 
removed from the account. I also think that Shawbrook should remove all negative entries 
added to Mr As credit file in relation to this loan up to this point.
I also think that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset
caused.
My final decision
My final decision Is that Mr As complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Shawbrook Bank Ltd to:
Allow Mr A to keep the solar panels
Estimate the potential savings and income to Mr A from the panels over the loan 
term, and rework the loan, so that he pays no more than this.  Where possible it 
should use Mr As electricity bills and FIT statements to do this
Add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement
Allow Mr A to decide how hed like his overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above.
Remove all negative entries to Mr As credit report in relation to this loan up to this 
point
Pay Mr A £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
*if Shawbrook Bank Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman