DRN-2966438
The complaint
Ms F complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) shouldnt have 
agreed to provide her with a credit card account and later increase her credit limit.
What happened
Ms F applied to Barclaycard for a credit card in November 2015. Barclaycard agreed her 
application and provided an initial credit limit of £400.
In June 2016, Barclaycard increased Ms Fs card limit to £800.
Ms Fs began to miss payments to her account with Barclaycard and it fell into default. 
Barclaycard closed Miss Fs account in April 2017 and registered the default with the credit 
reference agencies in August 2017. The outstanding debt was transferred to a debt 
collection agency in September 2020.
Barclaycard wrote to Ms F on 27 November 2020. Theyd reviewed the way theyd 
previously set some customers credit limits. They said Ms F may have been given a limit 
higher that it shouldve been at the time. So, they were refunding £395.75 to reduce the 
outstanding debt.
Ms F said that Barclaycard shouldnt have provided her with a credit card due to her credit 
history. So, she complained to them. She said she was now paying off the debt incurred as a 
result and it had negatively impacted her credit score. Ms F wanted Barclaycard to clear the 
remaining balance owed.
Ms F referred her complaint to this service in February 2021. 
Barclaycard wrote to Ms F on 20 April 2021. They agreed that the limit provided may have 
been set higher than intended. They apologised for this and paid Ms F £100. But they said, 
the way in which the account was managed shows that the limit provided was not 
irresponsible. Barclaycard said they reviewed details of Ms Fs credit file with the credit 
reference agencies. They said there was nothing to suggest that she was experiencing 
financial problems at the time the limits were agreed. So, they couldnt agree to clear the 
outstanding balance.
Ms F wasnt happy with Barclaycards response. So, she asked this service to look into her 
complaint. One of our investigators considered all the circumstances. She thought that 
Barclaycard had dealt with Ms Fs complaint fairly and they didnt need to do anything more.
Ms F didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, she asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard said theyd been undertaking an internal review of customers circumstances at 
the time that their Barclaycard limits were set. This review was prompted by a fault identified 
in their system and the review and any resolution, had been agreed with the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Barclaycard have stressed that not all customers, who received a letter relating to the 
review, wouldve actually been impacted. But to ensure that all those impacted were 
identified, they reviewed all limits agreed during the affected period. 
Its important to note that receiving one of these letters wouldnt suggest a credit limit that 
was too high, or that the lending was unaffordable. Barclaycard has simply identified a 
period of time where its lending decisions couldve been more robust  and it could be the 
case that the additional information they shouldve considered wouldnt have made a 
difference to its decision to lend, or to how much it was willing to lend to a particular 
consumer.
In reviewing Ms Fs complaint, I need to consider whether the checks and assessments that 
Barclaycard completed here were reasonable and proportionate. Also, whether they were 
enough to satisfy them that Ms F would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. If 
they were, I need to consider if their decision to lend was a fair one, given the information 
they had.
Section 5.2A.20 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) provides examples of the factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, 
under which, they should be applied.
Ive looked at the information Ms F gave to Barclaycard when she first applied to them in late 
2015. Barclaycard have provided copies of this together with the information they obtained 
from credit reference agencies at the time.
Ms Fs application showed an annual income of £22,800 and net monthly disposable income 
of £764 after deductions for living costs. No other finance costs were included in her 
application. The credit search information obtained by Barclaycard reports three accounts. 
One of these shows one late payment of up to one month. So, based upon this, I believe that 
the information obtained by Barclaycard was proportionate and their decision to provide a 
credit card account with an initial limit of £400 appears reasonable relative to Ms Fs 
disposable income at the time. There didnt appear to be anything to suggest that Ms F had 
financial problems.
I then considered Barclaycards decision to increase Ms Fs limit to £800 in June 2016. 
Before increasing a credit limit, Barclaycard needed to complete an assessment of Ms Fs 
credit worthiness. The guidelines for this are also set out in CONC 5.2A. Barclaycard used 
the information they already held about Ms F together with updated information from the 
credit reference agencies. From the information provided by Barclaycard, I cant see there 
was any adverse credit data reported within what they obtained.
I then looked at Ms Fs Barclaycard statements from when her account was opened up to 
June 2016. I can see that Ms F missed her first Barclaycard payment in January 2016. But 
then no payments were missed or late up to the point that Barclaycard increased Ms Fs 
limit. So, based upon this, it would appear that the checks and assessments that 
Barclaycard completed were proportionate. Their decision to increase Ms Fs limit appears 
reasonable based upon the information available to them at the time.
Ms F has provided a personal report from a credit reference agency dated July 2021. Having 
reviewed that information, while I can see that there have been a number of defaults 
recorded, none of them appear to predate Barclaycards decisions. Its also relevant to say 
that the report would only include credit file information recorded in the preceding six years. 
So, anything before July 2015 wouldnt be listed. 
Ms F provided a screenshot of her credit payment history from another financial data 
provider. Unfortunately, while this shows that she had late payments in 2015 and 2016, it 
doesnt provide any specifics. So, I cant reasonably say that Barclaycard wouldve had 
access to this information or whether it shouldve influenced their decisions.Ms F also provided copies of three emails received in respect of debts she had at the time. 
One relates to an irresponsibly lent debt where the lender agreed to clear the outstanding 
amount and remove any credit file entries. So, its reasonable to conclude that Barclaycard 
wouldnt have seen this. Another relates to a loan that Ms F was disputing and the third 
relates to an unpaid direct debit loan payment. There is no suggestion that these resulted in 
adverse data being recorded with the credit reference agencies. So, again, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Barclaycard wouldve seen this information at the time they lent.
To summarise, it appears that Barclaycard had completed appropriate and proportionate 
checks when reaching their decisions to lend based upon the information available to them. I 
realise that Ms F will be disappointed, but Ive not seen anything that persuades me that 
Barclaycards decision to lend was irresponsible. While it is clear that Ms F did later have 
financial problems, based upon what they knew, I dont believe Barclaycard couldve 
reasonably foreseen this.
Barclaycard accepted that the limit may have been higher than intended and have refunded 
charges and interest. Theyve also paid Ms F £100 as an apology. I agree with our 
investigator here and believe this outcome is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman