DRN-3543607
The complaint
Mrs M complains Santander UK Plc acted unfairly in registering a default against her.
What happened
Mrs M took out a credit card with Santander in or around May 2014. She complains that 
Santander incorrectly registered a default on this account. Mrs M says she had an 
agreement with Santander about repaying the amount. She is also unhappy that Santander 
has not kept what Mrs M believes to be important information in relation to the complaint.
Our investigator did not recommend this complaint be upheld. He felt that Santander had 
acted fairly in registering the default. He was also satisfied Santander had acted reasonably 
in relation to the other aspects of Mrs Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im satisfied that Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in relation to this 
complaint; and I make no award against it. This is for effectively the same reasons that our 
investigator previously explained.
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline of events, which both parties have had sight of. 
So, for the sake of conciseness I wont repeat them here. From reviewing this timeline, it is 
clear that by August 2015 the account had had a number of arrears built up on it. Each time 
Santander had communicated with Mrs M to pay the outstanding balance. By October 2015 
there had been more arrears; and Santander had contacted Mrs M further asking her to pay 
the necessary amount. Mrs M spoke with Santander in October 2015 explaining that she 
wanted to make minimum payments towards her account. She did not pay off the 
outstanding balance. By December 2015 Santander began the default process; and by 
February 2016 the default was registered on Mrs Ms account.
Mrs Ms says that she had reached a verbal agreement with Santander in or around 
December 2015; and therefore, it should not have registered the default. Ive considered this 
argument, but Im not persuaded by it. From the information Ive seen there is no record of 
this agreement being recorded. Instead, there is sufficient information that Santander had 
been communicating with Mrs M to ask her to pay her arrears and clear her necessary 
balance. This persuades me there was likely no agreement in place, and that Santander was 
expecting Mrs M to make her necessary repayments.
In addition to this, looking at the transaction history on Mrs Ms account it seems that no 
payments were made on her account from June 2015 onwards. So even if there was an 
agreement in place; it would appear that Mrs M had not maintained this either. 
Either way from what Ive seen Santander made the decision to default the account as a 
result of these arrears. Whilst Mrs M may disagree with the actions of Santander; Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably in relation to this aspect of Mrs Ms complaint. By the time the 
account was defaulted Mrs M had developed sustained arrears on the account; and there 
seemed little reasonable prospect of these arrears being reduced or cleared. So, Im 
satisfied that the relationship between Santander and Mrs M had broken down. As such, Im 
satisfied this was a decision that Santander was entitled to make; and Im therefore satisfied 
it acted reasonably in this instance by doing so.
In her later correspondence with our service, Mrs M raised concerns over Santanders data 
retention policy. Whilst I understand Mrs Ms point of view on this; Im satisfied Santander 
has acted reasonably in relation to this aspect of her complaint. Understandably due to the 
passage of time; Santander does not have copies of all of the information, as it no longer (it 
says) holds them. But considering the length of time that has passed I dont find this unusual 
or unreasonable.
Instead; based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Santander has acted reasonably in 
relation to Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman