DRN-3802313
The complaint
Mr C complains National Westminster Bank Plc refuses to refund money he lost to an 
investment scammer.
What happened
Mr C has explained that in 2020 he made the following payments to Quamtor and Binance 
from his NatWest account, using his debit card, for what he thought was a legitimate 
investment.  
Transaction number Date Merchant Amount (£)
1 17 September 2020 Quamtor 500
2 19 November 2020 Binance 2,500
Total 3,000
When Mr C subsequently got in touch with NatWest to explain hed been scammed, 
NatWest didnt reimburse Mr Cs lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr C referred his complaint 
about NatWest to this office. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ill explain why.
At the time Mr C made his payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Mr Cs NatWest account. I dont think I can say  given
the payments in question here, taken singularly or collectively  that NatWest unreasonably 
failed to intervene before executing Mr Cs instructions, or that it would be reasonable here 
to hold NatWest responsible for Mr Cs loss.
There is a balance to be struck  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and to 
act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. The first payment instructed by Mr C using his Visa debit card, was for £500. 
The second payment  instructed by Mr C using his Visa debit card was for £2,500. This 
payment was stopped for a security check and Mr C confirmed it was genuine and so 
NatWest processed it for him. Im satisfied NatWest simply sought to check that Mr C had 
authorised the payment himself rather than suspected hed fallen victim to a scam. Ive noted 
Mr C has raised that loan funds from a third party had credited his account before he 
instructed his payment to Binance and this should have been deemed suspicious. I dont 
agree, it wasnt in my view, sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious for me to say 
NatWest ought to have done more than it did, such as calling him to question him about the 
payment. 
I understand Mr C reported the scam to NatWest in 2021 and NatWest considered whether 
he had any chargeback options in relation to his debit card payments and decided 
chargeback wasnt an option for him. It noted he didnt pay the scammer directly and the 
companies he did pay provided a service to him which wasnt in dispute. And so, I dont think 
NatWest acted unreasonably when deciding chargeback claims werent an option for him. 
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But I can only uphold this complaint 
if Im satisfied NatWest did something wrong that caused his loss. And in this case, whilst I 
sympathise with Mr Cs position, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded NatWest 
can fairly be held responsible for his losses.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Cs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman