DRN-3942311
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Inter Partner Assistance SA turned down a claim he made on his legal
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P was a police officer and retired in 2009. He has legal expenses insurance provided
through the police federation. Mr P contacted Inter Partner about an employment matter in
2017 (relating to his police service) and made further claims in 2021.
Inter Partner turned down the claims because it said although his policy covered action
against an employer this was only for a role unconnected to service as a police officer. In
addition, the policy only provided cover for a breach of an employment contract. As a police
officer Mr P didnt have an employment contract and so the policy wouldnt cover him. It
issued a final response in April 2022 reiterating those points. It also said it had concerns
limitation would have expired given the time that had passed since the events in question.
Our investigator noted Inter Partner became the insurer of the policy in 2006 so would only
be responsible for disputes that arose after that had taken place. She also noted the policy
wording changed in 2011 to specifically exclude any claim relating to your activities as a
police officer. She agreed if Mr P did have claims which arose after that and related to his
role as a police officer they wouldnt be covered by his policy.
But she didnt agree Inter Partner was right to decline claims covered by the 2006  2011
policy wording on the same basis. That policy didnt contain a specific exclusion for police
officer activities. And while it did reference cover being provided for a breach of the
policyholders employment contract she thought the characteristics of a police officer holding
office were the same as, or similar to, a person being employed. So this should be covered
by his policy.
She accepted limitation might be an issue in relation to any claims but that should be
determined by a legal professional. So if Mr P was able to provide clear information about
the claims he wanted to make Inter Partner should consider these in line with the remaining
terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr P didnt make any comments directly relevant to that outcome. Inter Partner didnt agree.
It said action relating to activities as a police officer was excluded by the 2011 policy and the
intent of the 2006 policy was the same. And, as Mr P didnt have an employment contract,
the claims he wanted to make werent covered.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Inter Partner has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
As our investigator explained the policy wording changed during the time Mr P had this
cover. From 2011 it provided cover for Advisers Costs to pursue a Legal Action against
Your employer for a breach of Your contract of employment.. However, that cover was
limited by an exclusion which said it didnt provide cover For anything to do with Your
activities as a police officer.
I think its in line with the policy terms and fair of Inter Partner to say any claims Mr P wants
to make which relate to his service as a police officer and which arose when that wording
was in place wouldnt be covered. But the wording from 2006-2011 didnt contain that
exclusion. That means claims that arose during that period cant be excluded on the same
basis.
However, Section 6 of the wording which applied at that time says we will pay the costs we
have agreed to of you taking any legal action against your employer following a breach of
your contract for your full-time employment or permanent part-time employment. I
understand that in his role as a police officer Mr P was an Officer of the Crown. I appreciate
there may be some question over exactly what that means for his employment status but I
dont think its in dispute he doesnt have a contract of employment.
So, on a strict interpretation of the wording, this policy wouldnt cover claims he wanted to
make relating to his police officer role either. However, I also need to consider whats fair
and reasonable in all of circumstances. In this case that means thinking about whether
applying the policy wording in that way would lead to a fair outcome for Mr P.
And, as a police officer, I think Mr P would meet many of the tests the government sets out
for determining whether someone is an employee or not. For example hed be required to
work regularly, would receive paid holiday, the police service would provide the materials,
tools and equipment for his role and the police service disciplinary and grievance procedures
would apply to him.
Given that I dont think it would be fair of Inter Partner to rely on the term as it relates to an
employment contract to turn down Mr Ps claim solely because his position as a police officer
means he doesnt have a formal employment contract. However, the legal expenses policy
Mr P took out was through the police federation. And I understand that policy formed one
part of an overall package of cover offered by the federation which included support for the
activities a federation member carries out as a police officer.
Ive reviewed the rules of the scheme operated by the federation (which are available
online). I can see the scheme would, in principle, provide cover for a retired member like
Mr P for matters that relate to his police officer role. And I understand it would cover issues
arising from that such as Employment Tribunal matters and misconduct claims. I also
understand Mr P has been provided with legal support in the past by the federation.
So Inter Partners decision to decline Mr Ps claim doesnt mean hes been left without cover
for his activities as a police officer that he might reasonably have expected his legal
expenses insurance to provide. That policy only represents one element of a wider package
provided by the federation which includes support for Mr Ps role as a police officer. The
legal expenses policy then provides additional cover for matters not related to his work as a
police officer. 
I think the existence of the federation cover addresses the potential unfairness
to Mr P of declining a claim on the basis that a police officer doesnt have an employment
contract. And it therefore follows that I dont think Inter Partner did anything wrong in doing
so in the particular circumstances of this case.
Responses to my provisional decisionInter Partner accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr P didnt respond to us but did copy us in on an email to his representative. Although he 
was clearly dissatisfied with what Id said many of his comments didnt appear directly 
relevant to the points Id made. However, he did suggest Id said the police federation had 
covered him for an Industrial Tribunal in the past. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any comments that would lead me change what I said in my 
provisional decision so I dont have any reason to alter the conclusions I set out in it. 
However, I would clarify that I didnt suggest the police federation had provided Mr P with 
support for an Industrial Tribunal (or an Employment Tribunal); I said I understood hed been 
provided with legal support in the past by the federation.  
Even if that isnt the case it wouldnt affect my thinking about the complaint which was, in 
summary, that the existence of the federation cover addresses the potential unfairness to 
Mr P of declining a claim on the basis that a police officer doesnt have an employment 
contract.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman