DRN-3701441
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays he experienced in transferring his stocks and shares ISA away 
from ITI Capital Limited. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Rs complaint and set out the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings as follows:
In 2020 Mr Rs ISA and general investment account, which he held with another firm that 
had gone into administration, were transferred over to ITI. At the end of July, shortly after 
receiving confirmation that his account had been migrated over, Mr R had problems 
accessing his account online. Once he could access it, none of his investments were 
showing online. Mr R has said his life savings were in the account, and so was very worried 
about the situation and tried to contact ITI on a number of occasions to resolve it. Due to the 
ongoing issues, he decided to sell his investments and move the resultant cash to a 
separate business, who Ill call Company A. 
Company A sent ITI a transfer request in October 2020, but the cash was not sent over to 
Company A for a few months. After Mr R complained about the problems hed had, ITI 
offered £225 compensation. As he was unhappy with this amount, he brought his complaint 
to our service. ITI then increased their offer to £350. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said that £350 
was a fair amount to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused, but she felt ITI 
should also pay interest on the cash, because Mr R had been deprived of using it. She said 
that ISA transfers can normally take 30 days to go through and Mr R ought to have had use 
of his money in his account with Company A by 5 November 2020. So, she said ITI should 
pay Mr R simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from 5 November 2020 to 19 February 
2021, which was the date ITI told our service the transfer was complete. 
ITI replied to say that they felt the £350 offered was enough. The investigator explained that 
she felt they needed to make up for the delay, on top of the compensation offer. ITI then 
didnt reply, so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the problems Mr R has experienced were caused by ITI. So, the focus 
of my decision is how to put those issues right. The amount that Mr R held with ITI was 
around £175,000, so the worry he was caused about the whereabouts of his investments, 
including that held as cash, is not unsurprising. Ive seen evidence of the number of calls 
that Mr R made to ITI to resolve the situation, and hes given clear testimony about the 
concerns he had. So, I think the £350 theyve offered is fair to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I can see that Mr R said the transfer was requested by Company A on 5 October 2020. ITI 
has given us contradictory information about this  theyve told us they received the request 
on 5 October and 10 October. Im mindful that 5 October is the date Mr R remembers the 
transfer was sent by Company A and this is one of the dates given by ITI, and notably ITI 
didnt dispute this in reply to the investigators opinion letter. So, I think its fair to say on 
balance, that its likely ITI received this request on 5 October 2020. 
The investigator said that the transfer ought to have been complete within 30 calendar days 
of it being received by ITI, based on the guidance given by HMRC. This time frame is the 
most time it should take  they still need to ensure they move the transfer along at a 
reasonable pace within those 30 days. Im mindful of the fact that Company A was 
requesting just cash to be transferred, and the assets had already been sold prior to ITI 
receiving the transfer request. The HMRC guidance of 30 days is to allow for the firm to do 
things like arrange for the sale of assets, or to contact third parties like fund managers, to re-
register holdings as part of the transfer process. As this was simply a cash transfer, the 
amount of work involved here for ITI was comparatively minimal. 
Ive not been given any evidence from ITI to show how long it would normally take them to 
complete each step of a cash transfer process. So, Ive carefully considered how much time 
it reasonably should have taken for them to deal with the transfer. I dont think it would be 
fair to say they ought to have dealt with each stage of the process immediately, as its not 
unreasonable to allow some lead-in time. But equally I dont think it should have taken more 
than a couple of weeks to progress the transfer at each stage as, based on my experience of 
the general timeframes that firms take to complete each step in a transfer, it rarely takes two 
weeks. I think it would be fair to pick a mid-point between the two amounts of time  
somewhere between immediately and a couple of weeks. So, when reconstructing a timeline 
of what should have happened, Ive allowed ITI a week to complete each step in the 
process, on that basis. 
As such, once theyd received the request, I think ITI should have sent the valuation to 
Company A by 12 October 2020 at the latest. After ITI sent Company A the valuation in 
December 2020, it took Company A six days to reply and accept it. I dont have any 
evidence that theyd have taken a different amount of time to reply if ITI had contacted them 
earlier, so I think its fair to use the same time frame here. As such, if everything had gone as 
it should, ITI would have received the acceptance by 19 October. 
Again, I consider that it would have been reasonable for ITI to have actioned the transfer 
within the next week, on the same basis as above. So, the latest I think the money would 
have been in Mr Rs account with Company A is 26 October 2020. 
In reality, the money wasnt transferred to his account with Company A until 27 January 
2021. I note there was some confusion caused by ITI providing a cash transfer date of 27 
January 2021 and a completed date of 19 February 2021, which I believe is why the 
investigator said interest should be paid up until 19 February 2021. However, based on the 
statement Mr R has provided from his account with Company A, the money was received 
into that account on 27 January 2021. 
As a result of the delays caused by ITI, Mr R was unable to use the money as he wished 
during this time and I think ITI should pay him interest to make up for that. I think its fair that 
ITI pays simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on the amount transferred as cash from 26 
October 2020 to 27 January 2021. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the reply to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings as set out above. I therefore reach the same 
conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, and make them final.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr R: 
8% simple interest per year, on the amount in cash transferred from ITI to Company 
A between 26 October 2020 and 27 January 2021; and
£350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
ITI Capital Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
ITI Capital Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman