DRN-2904753
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a furniture warranty 
claim for his damaged sofa.
What happened
Mr Ls policy started in May 2015 for a five-year period. 
He contacted Ageas in April 2020 to report two faults with his sofa. He said that the cushion 
springs were damaged.  And that some of the leather finish was peeling  Ageas referred to 
this as colour loss. He told this service that hed made a successful claim two years ago that 
he felt was similar to the cushion spring damage he was claiming for this time. So he thought 
that Ageas would cover that damage again. 
Ageas sent a technician to look at Mr Ls sofa. The report they produced said that the 
cushion spring damage was due to wear and tear and usage. The report noted that the area 
of colour loss was also due to wear and tear and usage. As the technician had found none of 
the damage to be the result of a manufacturing fault, or due to accidental damage, Ageas 
declined Mr Ls claim. 
In its declination letter, Ageas explained what the policy did and didnt cover. It noted that as 
the damage was due to wear and tear and usage, it wouldnt accept Mr Ls claim. 
Mr L was unhappy and raised a complaint. Ageas considered his complaint but maintained 
its decision to decline the claim. It explained that for any claim to succeed under the 
Structural Defects section of cover, there must be evidence of a defect with the components 
used. But that the technician couldnt confirm any such defects with the furniture. It also 
noted that the technician had reported that the damage had occurred due to normal wear 
and tear and the way the sofa is sat on, which they said was something specifically excluded 
from cover.
So Mr L brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt she couldnt say that the damage was 
covered by the policy. So she considered that Ageas had fairly declined the claim. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he felt it was reasonable to expect a 
sofa from a single-person household to last for more than 5 years. And that the technician 
had told him the damage he was claiming for was the same issue as the previous successful 
claim. Although this time on a different cushion. 
As Mr L disagreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls policy provides cover for upholstery leather stains, accidental damage and structure. 
The technician who inspected Mr Ls furniture provided a damage report. In the technicians 
opinion, he said that both the damage to the springs in one of the cushions and the colour 
loss had happened as a result of wear and tear. This is excluded from cover. 
But Mr L has said that the sofa springs had failed. And that when this happened to a different 
part of the sofa two years earlier, Ageas had covered his claim. 
In order to decide whether Mr Ls claim should be accepted, Ive looked in detail at the 
policys terms and conditions. 
The key parts of the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy are the section under What Is 
Covered that states: 
Structural defects to fabric or leather furniture, mattresses (including mattress protectors) 
following the expiry of the suppliers warranty caused by
(.)
Lifting or peeling of the hide on leather furniture 
And under What Is Not Covered where the policy states: 
We will not pay the claim costs arising from: 
1. Any damage (structural or otherwise), soiling or staining caused: 
()
by any other cause not specifically mentioned under What is Covered 
And: 
3. Stains & damage that is consistent with wear and tear or anything that happens gradually
Considering the above, I cant see that the type of issue Mr L claimed for is covered. I 
acknowledge that he feels that a similar spring problem was covered two years ago. And I 
can see why it must be frustrating to have this claim declined given what happened with the 
previous claim. But Ive got no evidence that the damage reported this time was caused by 
any of the specific listed reasons. 
Ive also considered whether it was fair for Ageas to decline Mr Ls claim due to this 
exclusion.
The technicians report states that the spring had dislodged in the sofa, and that this was 
consistent to wear and tear and usage. He also states that the colour loss was consistent 
with wear and tear and usage. And that neither of the issues were manufacturing faults. As 
our investigator noted, the technician is an expert in this field. And Ive seen no evidence 
from other experts disputing his findings. So Im persuaded that Ageas has fairly applied the 
exclusion. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed by this decision. But I cant fairly ask Ageas to cover this 
damage, as it isnt covered under his policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman