DRN-3921850
The complaint
Mrs F complains as executor on behalf of Mr Ms estate about the suitability of advice 
provided by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) to invest in an Investment Bond 
(IB) and Bonus Bond (BB) because of the length of term and level of risk involved.  
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary, Mr M received advice from Halifax in 2000 after he received a 
compensation payment. He passed away in 2005 and Mrs F became concerned about 
advice when contacted by her representative. The representative complained to HSBC. Mrs 
F remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. 
  
A jurisdiction decision was made on 5 December 2022 confirming this complaint was one I 
could consider. Our Investigator issued a view explaining why they felt Halifaxs 
recommendation was suitable. However, Mrs Fs representative confirmed she didnt agree. 
In summary, the representative said: 
 
Prior to the advice, Mr M was involved in an incident which meant he wouldnt be 
able to work again. He relied only on a state pension.  
The funds were awarded to provide financial security and it was totally unsuitable to 
place at risk any of those funds. A contingency fund of £6,768 was insufficient for 
someone whose benefit income barely covered monthly outgoings.  
It was inappropriate to invest a larger proportion of the funds in the medium risk 
bond. He had no capacity to replace these funds. There was no need or benefit to 
invest in both a cautious and medium level of risk. 
 
Therefore, the case has passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id note some time has now passed since the recommendation in 2000 and so there is 
limited information available. This isnt unusual but it does mean Ive thought carefully about 
the information I do have, and my decision is based on what I think is more likely to have 
happened on balance.  
Ive reviewed the fact find and can see the advisor sought to obtain financial and personal 
information in order to make a suitable recommendation. This included information about 
income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, as well as objectives. Mr Ms objective and 
main priority was recorded as Capital Investment Growth/Income. He wanted a fixed 
income with the prospect for the capital to grow.  
The recommendation was to keep £6,768 as a contingency in Mr Ms current account and 
ISA savings. Then to invest £37,500 into the IB and to invest £12,500 in the BB with the 
purposes of growth and income. Ive reviewed the information about these bonds and the 
funds including the key features document. Ive also considered information about asset 
splits for some of the funds over the last five years.  
I can see both the IB and BB were supposed to be invested for the medium to long term. Ive 
considered the representatives comments about this and Mr Ms health. But the fact find 
confirms Mr M was in a position to set aside part of his capital for five to ten years. There 
isnt any evidence to suggest Mr M had planned expenditure or would need access to his 
capital. Both bonds also had flexible withdrawal options which meant Mr M would still have 
access to capital if needed.  
I can see Mr M did make withdrawals, but I dont think this meant the recommendation was 
unsuitable as it seems to have been unplanned. We dont know the exact reason why these 
withdrawals were made. But a note made by Mr M confirmed he was withdrawing some of it 
prior to a hospital visit.  
In respect of risk, the BB represented a cautious level and the IB was a balanced level of 
risk. I understand Mr M was a first-time investor and the evidence doesnt demonstrate he 
had experience of investing previously. So, its difficult to say with certainty exactly what Mr 
M understood of the risks. Nevertheless, the fact find does record Mr M was prepared to see 
capital fluctuate in value, wished to spread his money and was willing to accept investments 
linked to the stock market. It records he understood capital may fall and so I think on balance 
its likely he was prepared to take some risk to achieve his objectives. 
 
There is nothing to suggest Mr M wasnt prepared to take a balanced approach with a 
proportion of the funds. And Im not persuaded the amount of funds invested within the IB 
exposed Mr M to unreasonable risk. Some of the funds were still placed in the cautious 
bond, he had disposable income each month and had a contingency set aside. So, I think on 
balance and at the time the recommendation was made it seemed likely it was a risk he 
could withstand, understood, and was ultimately one he accepted.  
Overall, Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable in light of Mr Ms objectives, needs 
and circumstances. On balance, I think it was appropriate for his likely attitude to risk and the 
period for which he wanted to invest.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman