DRN-3458343
The complaint
Miss G complains about charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
have asked her to pay since she returned a car she had been financing through an 
agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss G responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). 
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be 
mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection 
after the car was collected. Miss G says she was told by the first inspector that there was no 
damage to the car and if that was the case I can understand her frustration when she 
subsequently received an invoice for refurbishment. But that doesnt mean that damage 
wasnt present on the car. I think there was a very limited opportunity for damage to have 
occurred after the car was collected from Miss G. She had driven about 30,000 miles and 
had had the car for four years. The damage was on various panels and components and I 
find it unlikely such extensive damage would happen on a short trip to the auction house, or 
that damage was more likely to have happened on that trip than in the previous four years.
The investigator has explained the BVRLA guidance correctly in relation to what should be 
considered reasonable wear and tear when cars are returned at the end of a lease. Hes 
also accurately explained the vehicle return standards that MBFS apply. Im persuaded that 
the damage identified by MBFS was in excess of both of those return standards.
The front bumper scratches are through the primer; the scratches to the B post are well in 
excess of acceptable wear and tear; whilst the image isnt as clear as it could be Im 
persuaded on balance that there is a burn to the carpet; quarter panels are excessively 
dented, and the door seal is split.
Miss G suggests MBFS didnt inform her of the charges within the four weeks the BVRLA 
guidance stipulates. She also complains that she shouldnt be charged for the mileage 
completed by the inspector when returning the car. I cant see that either of these issues 
have been considered by MBFS and theyll need to be before this service can review them. 
If Miss G remains dissatisfied with those points she should therefore make a further 
complaint to the business.
I understand that Miss G is upset because MBFS have continued to pursue this debt with 
her whilst its been with this service. Whilst many companies will be prepared to suspend 
collection activities Im afraid we cant insist they do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman