DRN-4522357
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made 
under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Es car was damaged while parked in a car park. Her car was hit from the rear and 
pushed into another car, sustaining damage to both the right and left rear of her car. 
Mrs E reported the incident to her insurer, Aviva. The following day she said a warning light 
came up on the dashboard of her car and she said her car felt lower to the ground. 
Aviva arranged for an approved repairer (AR) to collect her car and carry out incident related 
repairs. 
When Mrs Es car was returned to her, she said damage to the near side rear door hadnt 
been repaired and a warning message light came up on the dashboard about the tyre 
pressure. Mrs E said she noticed the car was still low to the ground. Mrs E said when she 
turned the ignition on, a warning light would read; please wait, levels rising. 
Mrs E was unhappy with the service provided by the AR and Aviva. She was uncomfortable 
with her car being driven by the AR as she was worried further damage would be caused. 
She had concerns about the suspension of the car and believed it had been damaged in the 
incident, but not identified by the AR. She didnt feel safe driving her car. 
Aviva agreed to arrange for Mrs Es car to go back to the AR where they carried out a scan. 
This identified an issue with the suspension and so following this, arranged for Mrs Es car to 
go to a dealership garage for further diagnostic testing. 
The AR told Aviva that the dealership garage had reported that a fault linked to the 
suspension had been identified 400 km ago, and had been flagged on the vehicle 22 times 
since. 
So Aviva didnt agree that the issue with the suspension could have been caused by the 
incident as it had been recorded on the vehicle log beforehand. And it didnt agree the 
damage to the rear nearside door was incident related. 
Both Mrs E and this service asked Aviva to provide a copy of the report where the dealership 
garage recorded the mileage and the faults. This hasnt been provided. Aviva has provided a 
visual health check by the dealership garage and an extract from an email where the 
mileage and the fault is reported. It says the dealership garage hasnt agreed to provide 
further information. 
Mrs E provided a diagnostic report from a garage that specialises in the make of her car, 
along with two independent engineers opinion as to the cause of damage. 
The diagnostic report showed a fault linked to the suspension occurred for the first time 
within five miles of the incident occurring. It also flagged that the near rear side wheel wasnt 
roadworthy.
Our Investigator provided a copy of the information provided by Mrs E to Aviva. Aviva didnt 
change its stance. 
Our Investigator recommended Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. He thought that overall 
the information available showed it was more likely than not that the suspension damage 
occurred from the incident. So he recommended Aviva arrange for all suspension issues to 
be fixed and for an independent engineer to report that Mrs Es car is safe and roadworthy. 
He recommended Aviva reimburse Mrs E for the costs she paid for a report. And he 
recommended Aviva pay Mrs E £225 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
Aviva didnt agree and provided a response from its engineer. In summary the engineer says 
that the engineers on behalf of Mrs E have speculated as to the cause, but there is no 
evidence to support their view. He said Aviva didnt request a copy of a diagnostic report 
from the dealership garage as it had no reason to challenge what they told it and it trusts 
what it told them is correct. 
He says that the engineers on behalf of Mrs E have provided generalised comments without 
identifying the cause of the suspension leak. Without this, the engineer says they are in no 
position to comment on causation. 
It said its AR had carried out a wheel alignment test which showed no distortion and so he 
disputes the findings of the engineer regarding the near side rear wheel. 
Mrs E was happy that the Investigator recommended her complaint should be upheld. But 
she said the compensation of £225 isnt enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. She says that their car remains on their drive. After borrowing their daughters car 
for several months, she eventually made the decision to buy another car. Mrs E says they 
have concerns about the condition of the car and didnt feel it was safe to drive. She says 
she feels morally uncomfortable about selling the car due to her concerns about its safety. 
Mrs E wants Aviva to pay her the market value for her car. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2023. I intended to uphold the complaint but 
my remedy was different to the Investigator. I intended to ask Aviva to do the following:
Carry out remaining incident related repairs to the suspension, rear near side door 
and rear near side wheel. 
Arrange for an independent engineer to check the repairs when completed and 
confirm the car is safe and roadworthy. 
Reimburse Mrs E for the costs she paid for an independent engineers report with 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date she paid to the date of 
reimbursement. 
 Pay Mrs E £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mrs E was happy her complaint had been upheld. 
But she says the compensation and remedy doesnt put her back in the position she would 
be in had Aviva not provided the poor service. Mrs E doesnt want her car to be repaired and 
returned. She wants Aviva to pay a total loss (market value) settlement for it. 
So as both parties have replied, the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In my provisional findings I wrote: 
Aviva says it hasnt asked the dealership garage for a copy of its diagnostic report to 
support what it says about the fault and when it occurred on Mrs Es car. Ive 
considered the reasons why Aviva hasnt done this. Ive looked at the photos of the 
areas of damage to Mrs Es car as a result of the incident, where the area of the fault 
is in relation to the area(s) of damage, and that two independent engineers have 
reached similar opinions as to the likely cause of the damage. 
Ultimately the engineer on Mrs E s behalf who provided a copy of a diagnostic report 
has provided reasonable evidence of the fact that a suspension related fault occurred 
within five miles of the incident, which I find compelling and persuasive. The report, 
under the heading; Electric level control reported that both the rear left and right 
vehicle level is outside the tolerance, signalling below the permissible limit. It 
recorded that the first time this fault had occurred was at 83,532 miles. The photo of 
the odometer that Mrs E provided after the incident recorded the mileage of her car 
at 83,537 miles. 
Mrs E said the first time she saw a warning message on her dashboard was the 
following day. This seems consistent with the diagnostic report provided by Mrs Es 
engineer. 
Ive seen an extract from an email by the dealership which says ; 
So our diagnostic report on this E-Class has identified that the suspension 
compressor is leaking at the seals. Unfortunately it comes as a whole 
compressor assembly which would require replacing.
This damage is unlikely to be linked to any accident that has occurred as the 
fault first appeared 400KM ago and has flagged 22 times since on this 
vehicle.
The dealership garage provided a quote for £568.80 including VAT for a suspension 
compressor leaking
This isnt however sufficient evidence when comparing it to what Mrs E has provided 
to support her view. I find that the diagnostic report carries more weight in concluding 
that it is more likely than not that the suspension damage occurred as a result of the 
incident. Aviva hasnt provided diagnostic evidence to show that Mrs Es car reported 
a suspension fault before the incident occurred.
Key comments from the engineer who provided the diagnostic report are: 
further investigation is required to conclude the source of the leak, but we 
suspect possible disturbances of the rear air bellows due to impact being 
focused within close proximity of their location. 
Separately, a second independent engineer provided his opinion that the damage 
was more likely to have been incident related due to the location of the air 
suspension compression, being behind the near side rear wing area (one of the 
areas where impact damage occurred). He said; 
if the suspension rises and then gradually drops then that is likely to be an air 
bag fault or a leak in one of the air pipes feeding the rear suspension from the 
compressor. There is a junction box affair that is located behind the rear 
bumper that may have been affected during either the impact or the 
subsequent repair and this is an area I suggest you explore first.
The damage to the rear side door which the AR says isnt related to the incident, is 
extremely close to a panel which required replacing because of the impact - and from 
the photos of the incident immediately after it happened, I think its more likely than 
not that this damage happened at the same time. The condition of the rear near side wheel tyre is flagged by both the dealerships 
visual health check as well as the engineer who carried out the diagnostic report on 
behalf of Mrs E. The dealerships health check reports that the tyre needs attention 
and would fail a MOT as it has three cuts to the cord. The engineer on Mrs Es behalf 
reported the following:
Visual inspection of the accident damage repair concluded also heavily 
distorted n/s/r alloy wheel that the customer also states leaks over time. Due 
to the level of alloys distortion, we advise this is not fit for highway use and is 
a current safety concern.
So, along with photos of the incident and the areas of damage, I think on balance its 
more likely than not that the near side wheel requires repair. Im not satisfied that the 
ARs wheel alignment report is enough to conclude that Aviva has properly repaired 
incident related damage to this wheel. 
Ive considered Mrs Es testimony as to the impact Avivas handling of the repairs has 
had. I think Aviva has caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience in not 
providing adequate evidence despite her requests for a copy of a full diagnostic 
report from the dealership garage to support its decision not to repair her car. And I 
can understand her concerns about driving the car with a known suspension fault. 
Avivas AR told Mrs E that she could continue to drive her car - even though she 
found from general guidance online that the opposite advice is given. And had Aviva 
properly investigated and repaired Mrs Es car sooner, she wouldnt have been in the 
position to have to decide whether to drive her car or not with a known suspension 
fault. 
So from the information available to me, I think Aviva acted unreasonably. Its not for 
me to decide whether Aviva should write off Mrs Es car. An insurer can decide to do 
this where a car cannot safely be repaired, or where it isnt economical for it to do so. 
This depends on the costs involved in carrying out the remaining repairs I require 
Aviva to do as set out below. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs E says she has no faith in Avivas AR(s) to carry 
out suitable repairs. She is concerned as to the ongoing time this will take and once repairs 
have been completed, the only option available to her is to sell the car to a third party buying 
business. She says she will receive well below what she should because of Avivas failings. 
Mrs E estimates her losses will come to around £6,000.
I appreciate Mrs Es concerns. But I cannot predict the future losses Mrs E may or may not 
incur based on speculation as to the value of the car and her decision to sell it (if Aviva 
decides not to settle as a total loss claim) after repairs are carried out. And as I explained in 
my provisional decision, I cannot require Aviva to write off the car as this is their decision to 
make in line with the policy. But I can ask it to ensure the remaining repairs are done and 
checked by an independent assessor. All insurers must carry out effective and long lasting 
repairs. And while I understand Mrs E doesnt want to have further dealings with Aviva, I 
think this is the fairest outcome I can provide. But I understand this means the matter isnt 
closed. 
The compensation sum of £750 is in line with what this service awards for significant distress 
and inconvenience over a prolonged period of time. If Mrs E is unhappy with the way Aviva 
deals with the remaining repairs, she is entitled to raise a new complaint. 
So the remedy in my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision. I think 
Aviva should pay compensation of £750 to Mrs E for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
And I think Aviva should reimburse Mrs E for the costs she paid for an independent engineer 
report. She has provided a copy of the invoice to this service for £90 including VAT.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Carry out remaining incident related repairs to the suspension, rear near side door 
and rear near side wheel. 
Arrange for an independent engineer to check the repairs when completed and 
confirm the car is safe and roadworthy. 
Reimburse Mrs E for the costs she paid for an independent engineers report with 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date she paid to the date of 
reimbursement. 
 Pay Mrs E £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman