DRN-3221702
The complaint
Miss S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly handled a claim for 
subsidence under her buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Aviva includes any agents or representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In 2020 Miss S noticed cracking to her porch, and that it began to lean.
Aviva considered the claim, and accepted subsidence had damaged the property. 
But it said there was also historic damage to the property that wasnt subsidence 
related, which was also present prior to the inception of the policy. So, it said it would 
only cover damage as a direct result of the insured event  subsidence  which was 
related to repairs to a damaged drain.
But it said historic settlement to the porch, likely related to insufficient foundations, 
had led to previous movement around the time of its build, and therefore was 
unrelated to the drains. And this historic movement wasnt covered by the policy. It 
noted that the gap between the porch and main building had been filled and painted.
Aviva said as the cause of the damage has been identified and removed, the ground 
would recover, allowing the porch to stabilise. Repairs could then be carried out 
either by Avivas contractors or the claim can be cash settled on this basis. It also 
said Miss S could engage her own engineer, and if they challenged the findings 
Aviva made, it would reconsider.
Miss S complained, saying she had lived in the property for around 20 years and 
there had been no issue with the porch. And she said contractors advised the porch 
needed to be demolished and rebuilt  so Avivas proposed repairs wouldnt resolve 
the problem. Aviva didnt agree, so the complaint came to this Service.
Aviva did carry out works to the drains around March 2021.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She said Aviva had agreed to 
repair the internal damage caused by the drains, and she expected this to be done 
after the porch had stablished. But she wasnt persuaded the drain repair in isolation 
would provide an effective and lasting repair or that Aviva had demonstrated the 
property was now stabilised (through monitoring). The investigator also said she 
wasnt satisfied the remaining porch issues were due to any historic issue, and not 
the drains. She said this was because it seemed unlikely the extent of the cracking 
would appear over a short time, after 20 years without issue.
The investigator also noted Miss S had provided evidence to show the cracking to 
the porch has continued so Avivas repairs didnt appear effective. And concluded 
that even if she accepted there were two causes of the damage at the property as 
Aviva has said, it hasnt demonstrated what repairs were solely Avivas responsibility 
and which werent. So, she directed Aviva to carry out further investigations, settle 
the claim based on all works required, and compensate Miss S £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Miss S agreed, and said the porch had continued to sink since Avivas repairs. Aviva 
disagreed, saying Miss S own builder had highlighted there is damage present that 
is not subsidence related. And while it agreed lasting repairs would be required, it 
said it should not be the responsibility of an insurer to carry out uninsured works.
The investigator looked again, but didnt change her mind. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 December 2021, outlining why I didnt intend on 
upholding the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
Historic damage
Aviva has made reference to historic damage to the porch, likely to be as a result of 
settlement from after it was built. One of its engineers said:
The front wall has a significant lean outwards (40mm over 1200mm level) which 
would indicate that the structure settled after its construction, probably due to the 
shallow foundations. The resultant gap between the porch and the main building was 
filled and painted and the customer confirmed that they have not had any issues in 
the 20 year that they have lived there.
Its pointed to photos of a previous attempted repair, and Im in agreement it appears a gap 
between the porch and main property has been filled in and painted. Miss S has been clear 
that she had no knowledge of any such repairs, so it would seem this movement and 
attempted repair would go back prior to her purchase of the property.
Miss S provided comments from a builder, who said:
Having surveyed the damaged porch at the above address and having seen the 
pictures of the damaged gulley and pipework, it is my opinion that long term water 
erosion has undermined the Porch footings. Therefore, causing the porch to lean 
forward and separate from house wall.
It is also my opinion that this is not subsidence as the house wall and bay are 
unaffected
The identified cause of damage hes described, long term water erosion, differs from Avivas 
given opinions. Significantly he appears to suggest the damage affecting the whole porch 
wasnt caused by subsidence at all. Ive carefully considered these comments. But 
compared to Avivas more detailed reports and repeated site visits, the builders comments 
havent persuaded me that Aviva has made a mistake within its investigation.
As a result, I think Aviva has acted fairly declined a claim to cover this historic damage as a 
separated insured event as it appears clear this happened long before the Aviva policy was 
taken out. However, this is not to say that Aviva may not need to carry out repairs to the 
porch if these are necessary to provide an effective and lasting repair for damage that is 
covered by the policy.
Subsidence claim and effective and lasting repairs
Aviva has accepted the damage in this case under the insured peril of subsidence. And it 
has agreed to settle the claim, either by carrying out the works itself, or cash settling to an appropriate sum. The dispute that remains concerns whether the repairs carried out to date, 
and the scope of works proposed by Aviva, have been or will be lasting and effective.
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair, we expect it to indemnify the consumer 
by carrying out an effective and lasting repair. And that may involve undertaking work on 
uninsured damage. If the uninsured work isnt carried out, it wont be possible for the insured 
work to be effective and lasting  and that wont indemnify the policyholder. So, the 
established approach of this service is that in those instances, we typically think the insurer 
should carry out that uninsured work.
But to conclude this, I would need to be satisfied that the uninsured work is necessary for an 
effective and lasting repair to the insured work. And this is different to a recommendation as 
a precaution or to protect against the possibility of future damage.
Ill consider the evidence available to decide whether the works Miss S has requested  for 
the porch to be taken down and rebuilt  is necessary or preferable. And if Im not satisfied 
its necessary, then I wont ask Aviva to pay for damage which isnt covered.
So, Ive considered the available evidence. In September 2020, Avivas engineer said:
Defects found to the drainage system associated with the subsidence damage will 
require repair following which the property may need to monitored to confirm stability 
and a further claim update will be provided following the completion of site 
investigations.
Provided the property stabilises as expected, no foundation stabilisation works are 
considered necessary, with structural repairs of the superstructure being required 
only, together with internal redecoration of the damaged rooms.
This seems in keeping with what Id expect to see in a claim of this nature. And it seems 
Avivas proposed actions will depend on whether the property stabilises as it expected.
Following this, Aviva carried out site investigations in November 2020. It concluded that it 
would carry out various works, including excavation and replacement of an existing gully and 
adjacent pipework, a further CCTV survey and report findings, bed new pipe, as well as 
reinstate concrete to the area.
Miss S raised further concerns about the damage, and in January 2021 Aviva commented 
on the historic damage, saying it wouldnt be covered. But it confirmed both Avivas engineer 
as well as another expert in the area who had visited the site following a request for an 
emergency repair, had inspected the porch and believed the repairs could be completed to 
the existing structure.
Miss S made it clear to Aviva around this time that she had been told by her own builders 
that the porch would need to be knocked down and rebuilt. Aviva reiterated that this wasnt 
necessary but said it could cash settle if this was her preference and she wished to carry out 
more extensive repairs. In the circumstances I think this seemed like a sensible offer for 
Aviva to make.
Miss S said Avivas proposed works will not be sufficient as the entire porch will need to be 
taken down and replaced. Shes provided comments from a builder, who said:
 the option would be to take down all existing porch, including slab and footings 
and rebuild all new Porch as the building has moved too much to be underpinned.Theres no detail in his commentary suggesting why Avivas proposed works wouldnt work. 
So, this hasnt persuaded me this alternative view is any more than preference, rather than 
necessity.
In addition, to my knowledge, Aviva is still willing to carry out the repairs. It follows, based on 
the evidence provided, Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly when handling this claim.
I understand the claim has been paused while the complaint is with our service on Miss S 
instruction. Miss S has told our Service that the cracks have got worse. I would expect Aviva 
to review the damage to determine whether the property has stabilised as it suggested it 
would. If it hasnt, it may be further works will become necessary  and as Ive outlined these 
must be effective and lasting. I intend to leave this to Aviva to consider.
I gave both parties until 17 December 2021 to respond with anything further. But Ive been 
given nothing to consider from either Miss S or Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been given nothing new to consider by either party, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. So, I havent changed my mind and Im not directing Aviva to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman