DRN-2955720
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly turned down 
a claim on its business interruption insurance policy after it was forced to close by the 
Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr S, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with Zurich. It claimed on its policy after 
being forced to close by the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
Zurich turned down Ws claim as it said there was no cover under the policy for the 
circumstances of its claim. Zurich said while the policy provided cover for a specified list of 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. They said that Covid-19 hadnt caused any damage to 
property which meant that the extension for denial of access didnt apply and as W hadnt 
been closed due to a danger in its vicinity the extension for action of competent authorities 
didnt apply either. 
W complained to our service as it thought there should be cover under the extension for 
action of competent authorities. It said the policy wording was unclear and ambiguous, which 
was demonstrated by Zurich amending the wording of the extension at the renewal in 2020. 
W said it had been closed by the action of a competent authority due to Covid-19 being in its 
vicinity and there wasnt anything in the policy which specifically excluded the circumstances 
of the claim.
While the complaint was with our service, Zurich let W know that this extension was going to 
be considered by the High Court as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test 
case. However, as the High Court didnt find that this extension would provide cover for the 
national lockdown, Zurich maintained their position. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
the disease extension provided cover for Covid-19 as it wasnt a specified disease; and he 
didnt think the denial of access extension applied because Covid-19 hadnt damaged 
property. He said the High Court had found that the extension for action of competent 
authorities didnt provide cover for the national lockdown and he also didnt think Ws closure 
was due to a danger in its vicinity. Our investigator didnt think the extension was ambiguous 
and said Zurich hadnt amended the wording itself, only added in an exclusion for diseases.
W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that action of a competent 
authority isnt defined in the policy and that in an email about the test case Zurich indicated 
that there was ambiguity in the wording. W considered that the amended wording in the 
policy was significant and showed that the previous wording was ambiguous. W said the 
wording of vicinity was ambiguous, as it could refer to a wider area, and it would have 
caused a danger in the local area if W hadnt closed during lockdown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ws business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Zurich has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ws claim.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the extensions for disease and denial of access 
dont provide cover, so I will focus my decision on the extension for action of competent 
authorities. However, for completeness I would add that I also dont think the extensions for 
disease or denial of access provide cover for the circumstances of Ws claim, as Covid-19 
wasnt included in the list of specified diseases covered by the policy and I havent seen any 
indication that Covid-19 caused damage to property. 
The extension for action of competent authorities says there is loss from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of:
Action by the police or other competent local, civil or military authority following a 
danger or disturbance in the vicinity of the premises whereby access thereto will 
be prevented provided there will be no liability under this section of this extension 
for loss resulting from interruption of the business during the first 3 hours of the 
indemnity period.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment following the FCA test case is relevant to Ws complaint, 
because the High Court considered this term within Ws policy and this part of the judgment 
wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 499-501 of the judgment say:
In relation to dangerin the vicinity of the Premises we agree with Mr Orr QC 
that this clearly indicates that this is narrow localised cover intended to cover 
dangers occurring in the locality of the insureds premisesAs we have said 
elsewhere, the undefined term vicinity in itself connotes an immediacy of 
location
In our judgment vicinity although not defined, does have a local connotation 
of the neighbourhood of the premises. What that constitutes may depend on the 
nature of the danger or disturbance and the particular facts of the case, but, 
contrary to the FCAs submissions, we do not consider that the entire country can 
be described as in the vicinity of the insured premises. As Mr Orr QC correctly 
submitted, the overall phrase a danger or disturbance in the vicinity of the 
Premises contemplates an incident specific to the locality of the premises rather 
than a continuing countrywide state of affairs.
Accordingly, on the true construction of the Zurich AOCA clause, the government 
action in imposing the Regulations in response to the national pandemic cannot 
be said to be following a danger in the vicinity, in the sense of in the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I appreciate W 
finds the wording of the extension ambiguous, but I think Zurich have acted fairly in 
concluding that this extension doesnt provide cover. When words arent specifically 
designed in the policy, I think its fair and reasonable to give them their ordinary 
everyday meaning. I accept that the Government is a competent authority however, I 
think its clear that vicinity is this context relates to the local area and thats how it 
would reasonably be read in this extension. 
In an email to W, Zurich said that the test case itself had added an element of 
uncertainty around the term. As a result of this, they had added in additional wording to 
this extension to specifically exclude cover when the danger or disturbance related to a 
disease, infection, virus, bacterium or illness. I dont accept that the comments in 
Zurichs email meant that they accepted that the term was ambiguous as they said they 
remained confident of their interpretation of it. I think the element of uncertainty referred 
to the fact it was being considered by the Court and not that the wording itself was 
unclear. I also dont think that adding in the exclusion meant that the way the term was 
originally worded was unclear or ambiguous.  
I think this extension provides cover in the event of a danger or disturbance in the local 
area. While it may have caused a danger if W hadnt closed when required, the 
lockdown imposed by the Government wasnt due to a danger or disturbance in the 
localised area in this particular case. So I dont think this extension provides cover for 
the circumstances of Ws claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome W was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Zurich to pay Ws claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman