DRN-3794367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that the investment portfolio recommended by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays), was not suitable for them.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In early 1999 Mr and Mrs B met an adviser at Barclays to discuss an existing investment 
they held with it and for advice on investing money they held on deposit. I understand that 
their existing Barclays investment was invested in equity based funds, with a medium to high 
risk profile, and they had held this investment since 1992. It appears the investment had 
grown from around £18,000 in 1992, to over £38,000 at the time they discussed their 
financial planning with Barclays.
In addition to the existing investment Mr and Mrs B also had over £36,000 on deposit. The 
adviser recorded that they wanted to invest £25,000 of these deposit based savings.
From the fact find information recorded it appears that Mr and Mrs B had a surplus of income 
over expenditure of around £200 per month. They had no debts apart from a small 
outstanding balance on their mortgage which was due to be repaid with an existing 
endowment policy and no foreseeable large expenses.  
Mr and Mrs B were also expecting to receive a lump sum of over £22,000 in October 1999 
when a regular premium investment they held was due to mature. Their attitude to 
investment risk was recorded as medium and their investment objective was recorded as 
capital growth.
The adviser recommended they invest the proceeds from their existing Barclays investment 
and £25,000 from their deposit based savings in a medium risk portfolio for Capital Growth 
With Safety. Mr and Mrs B went ahead with the recommendation. The portfolio was 
managed by Barclays Portfolio Investment Manager (BPIM).
In October 1999, Mr and Mrs Bs regular premium investment matured. This increased their 
deposit based savings to around £30,000. Barclays advised Mr and Mrs B to add a further 
£10,000 to their BPIM portfolio, invested in the same Capital Growth with Safety portfolio 
strategy they had already invested in. 
However, Barclays has noted that when their fact find information was updated in late 1999 
the adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs B intended to spend £15,000 of their deposit based 
savings. After this planned expenditure of £15,000 and the £10,000 top up to their BPIM 
portfolio had been deducted from their deposit based savings, it appears Mr and Mrs B were 
left with only around £5,000 on deposit for emergencies.
I understand that between January and July 2003 Mr and Mrs B withdrew their entire 
investment with BPIM and received around £56,600 in total. 
In late 2021 Mr and Mrs Bs CMC contacted Barclays to complain about the advice they had 
received in 1999.
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. It said it was satisfied that the advice Mr and Mrs B 
received to invest in a medium risk portfolio managed by BPIM in early 1999 was suitable, 
based on Mr and Mrs Bs personal and financial circumstances at the time the advice was 
given. 
But it said it accepted that the £10,000 top up recommended in October 1999 had left Mr 
and Mrs B with only £5,000 in cash for emergencies (after their planned expenditure of 
£15,000 had been taken into account). It offered to compensate Mr and Mrs B for this 
unsuitable advice to add a further £10,000 to their BPIM portfolio.
Using the Bank of England average fixed rate bond returns  in other words, the average 
return for fixed rate bonds with 12-17 months to maturity  it calculated that Mr and Mrs B 
would have been £4,830.27 better off if theyd been advised correctly. Barclays offered Mr 
and Mrs B a total of £10,910.74 compensation, this included 8% simple interest on the 
redress (net of 20% tax on the interest). It also offered to pay them a further £150 
compensation for the delay in responding to their complaint.
Barclays said it felt the Bank of England average fixed rate bond returns was a fair measure 
of comparison given Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and attitude to risk at the time the advice 
was given. It said its offer was in line with this services approach to redress. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Barclays offer and their representative referred their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she felt that the offer Barclays had made was fair and she didnt think it 
needed to do any more to resolve matters. She said that having assessed the available 
evidence, her view was that she thought the advice Mr and Mrs B had received from 
Barclays in February 1999 was likely to have been suitable based on the information 
recorded about their circumstances at that time. She also said that she agreed with Barclays 
position that the advice to add another £10,000 to their portfolio in October 1999 was not 
suitable.
She said she was satisfied that the redress Barclays had offered to pay Mr and Mrs B was in 
line with the approach this service takes when awarding redress in complaints similar to this. 
As this was the case, she said she wouldnt be asking Barclays to do more than it had 
already offered to put matters right. 
The CMC said Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators view. On their behalf, the CMC 
said the portfolio recommended was only marginally below the highest risk fund available.
It said:
This fund included very high equity content, including overseas equities and other higher risk 
asset classes. Overall, I do not accept that this fund would match the reasonable definition of 
medium, nor was it suitable for investing the vast majority of our clients holdings into funds 
at this level of risk.
It also said it remained of the view that Mr and Mrs B were over-invested in February 1999.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have the power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Barclays has said it 
consents to us looking at this complaint. So, I've proceeded to consider everything that has 
been said about the merits of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive independently reached the same view as our investigator and for much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Were Mr and Mrs B over-invested in February 1999?
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Bs representatives position that they were over-invested in 
February 1999, when they invested a total of around £69,000 in the BPIM Capital Growth 
with Safety portfolio. 
I have reached this view as at the time the advice was given, they had around £36,600 on 
deposit and wanted to invest around £25,000 of this. The remainder of the money invested 
came from their existing Barclays investment. Mr and Mrs B were therefore left with around 
£11,600 in cash at the time the advice was given in February 1999. 
From the records I have seen there is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B had made the 
adviser aware of any foreseeable expenses that they needed to take account of. I am also 
mindful that Mr and Mrs B told the adviser that in October 1999 a regular premium 
investment they held was due to mature. At the time they discussed their financial planning 
in February 1999 the plan was valued at over £22,200, and I note that they received around 
£26,000 when the plan matured in October 1999. 
So, in addition to having around £11,600 left in deposit based savings in early 1999, Mr and 
Mrs B were also in line to receive a further lump sum of over £22,000 eight months later. As 
they had no planned foreseeable expenses at the time of the initial advice, I dont think they 
were over-invested in early 1999. In reaching this view I am also mindful that they had a 
surplus of income over expenditure of around £200 per month.
Likewise, I note that the adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs B said they were aware that 
investing £25,000 from cash leaves them with less reserves than guidelines, but say the 
£25,000 has been in a separate bank account and not touched for years. As it appears that 
the level of deposit based savings was discussed with Mr and Mrs B at the time the advice 
was given, I cant reasonably find that Mr and Mrs B didnt consider whether the cash 
reserve they would be left with would be sufficient for their needs.
Having carefully considered this aspect of their complaint I dont agree that, based on the 
information recorded about Mr and Mrs Bs personal and financial circumstances in early 
1999, that they were advised to over-invest in February 1999.
It is not in dispute that the advice to invest an additional £10,000 in October 1999 was 
unsuitable. Barclays has already accepted this is the case and offered redress to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for this unsuitable advice. 
Was the portfolio recommended too high risk?
The contemporaneous records show that Mr and Mrs B wanted to invest for capital growth 
and were identified as having a medium attitude to risk. They also had existing investment 
experience. From the limited information I have seen about their previous Barclays investment, it appears the new portfolio offered more diversification than the previous 
investment they held.
It appears that the main features of the BPIM portfolio were discussed by the adviser and set 
out in the information that the adviser provided to Mr and Mrs B at the time of the 
recommendation.
Barclays says the BPIM Capital Growth with Safety portfolio was medium risk. I think this 
rating seems reasonably to reflect the overall fund composition. Barclays has provided 
information that shows the target weighting for new Capital Growth and Safety portfolios 
was up to 80% in equities and 20% in fixed interest and cash. Given that Mr and Mrs Bs 
objective was to grow their capital through investment, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
the adviser to recommend a risk-based investment portfolio to meet their objective of capital 
growth. 
The BPIM Capital Growth with Safety portfolio recommended broadly matched their stated 
attitude to investment risk, comprising three quarters or more in equities (potentially offering 
increased scope for growth) whilst keeping some funds invested in lower risk asset classes 
(so offsetting the risk of loss). I note the comments Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made 
about the risk profile of the underlying investments, but I am not persuaded that the risk 
presented by the portfolio was too high risk based on Mr and Mrs Bs stated objectives and 
personal and financial circumstances at the time the advice was given in early 1999.
I appreciate that the portfolio target weightings included up to 15% in international holdings, 
but I dont think this, in itself, is sufficient for me to be satisfied that the risk profile of the 
portfolio was too high risk for Mr and Mrs Bs risk profile. In reaching this view I have taken 
into account that the investment they had previously held with Barclays was, according to 
Barclays, mostly equity-based funds in a medium and high-risk environment. I note that 
Barclays has said:
This BPIM portfolio was invested across a range of asset classes thus providing the 
diversification you desired and didnt previously have.
I am also mindful that one of the key differences between the Balanced and Capital Growth 
with Safety portfolios offered by BPIM was that the Balanced portfolio was designed to 
provide income and capital growth over the longer term. Whereas the Capital Growth with 
Safety portfolio was more concerned with the growth and protection of your capital over 
the longer term and the level of income is not a factor. As I have noted above Mr and Mrs 
Bs stated investment objective was capital growth. I therefore dont think it was 
unreasonable for the adviser not to have recommended the Balanced portfolio.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs B knew they were signing up to a level of 
risk they were comfortable with, in order to obtain the capital growth they hoped for, and I am 
satisfied that the Capital Growth with Safety portfolio was suitable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
I am satisfied that the redress offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC is broadly fair and 
reasonable.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman