DRN-3265051
The complaint
Mr W is disputing charges Arval UK Limited (Arval) made for the late return of a car he had 
been hiring through them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Arval accept that they didnt change Mr Ws email address prior to June 2020. Theyve 
accepted Mr Ws assertion that he told them about the change.
Mr W says that as a result he didnt receive the end of lease pack that Arval would usually 
send to consumers six months before the end of their agreement or the prompt letter theyd 
usually send three months before the end of the deal. He says this resulted in there being a 
delay before the car was returned.
Arval didnt have to remind Mr W about the return options. It was clear from the hire 
agreement that this was a 36 month hire agreement and the car would need to be returned 
at the end of that agreement.
Mr W clearly knew that was the case because in an email of 23 June 2020 he told Arval:
Ive not received any detail regarding collection of the caras this is due sometime next 
month.
Im also persuaded that Mr W was aware the hire was coming to an end as he has confirmed 
he took receipt of a replacement car in August 2020.
I dont therefore think that Arvals failure to send reminders to Mr W about the return options 
made any material difference. Mr W clearly knew the car would need to be returned in July 
2020 and could have made contact with Arval to arrange that.
Im not therefore asking Arval to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman