DRN-2917649
The complaint
Mr W complains Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn) failed to provide him with partial early 
settlement quotations in regards to his conditional sale agreement. As a result, he believes 
he has lost out financially. 
What happened
In July 2018, Mr W entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a used car. 
The finance was repayable over 42 months in which he was required to pay £239 per month.
Between January and March 2020, Mr W contacted Moneybarn on approximately three 
occasions to enquire about partial early settlement and early settlement quotations, the 
rebate amount and how this would impact his remaining payments. He asked for partial 
settlement quotations for varying amounts, ranging from £1,500 to £3,000.
In March 2020, Mr W contacted Moneybarn to say due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he would 
suffer financially as his place of employment was closed. In April 2020, Moneybarn agreed to 
a three month deferral period, which ended in June 2020.
In July 2020, Mr W requested partial settlement quotations however he was told as the 
account was in arrears, due to the deferral period, this needed to be cleared first before they 
could be generated. He paid £867 to bring the account up to date and made the request for 
partial settlement quotations for £2,000, £2,300, £2,500 and £2,750. Moneybarn said due to 
a system issue, they were unable to do so as the account incorrectly showed a deferral 
period was still in place. However they were able to provide him with an early settlement 
quotation to settle the agreement in full. 
Mr W complained about Moneybarns delay in providing the partial settlement quotation and 
he said he hadnt been told the impact the deferral period would have on calculating it. He 
felt he had lost out on hundreds of pounds in terms of rebate. He later went on to settle the 
account in full in September 2020. 
Moneybarn partially upheld the complaint. They said the Covid-19 deferral period was a new 
process and they accepted there was room for improvement as Mr W was not advised of the 
impact it would have on providing the partial settlement quotation. They also acknowledged 
the long wait times and delays Mr W experienced when he tried to contact him. They offered 
£50 compensation as a resolution to the complaint. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They recognised Moneybarn couldve provided the 
quotation sooner but said it was a complex process and given the unprecedented nature of 
Covid-19, the information provided to Mr W may have been limited. However they werent 
persuaded had the quotations been given earlier, he wouldve acted differently. Overall, they 
concluded they didnt believe Mr W had lost out financially as a result of the delay.
Mr W disagreed. He said he paid the arrears to bring the account up to date with the 
intention to make a partial settlement repayment. He also said he intended to make a further 
payment in July 2020 in order to receive a greater rebate amount. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
In order to decide if Moneybarn has acted fairly and has done enough to resolve matters, 
Ive considered whether they provided adequate information about the impact of the deferral 
period on providing the partial settlement quotations and if their failure to provide them 
caused detriment to Mr W.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) is the relevant law here and it sets out borrowers are 
entitled to make partial early repayments and receive a rebate. It also explains borrowers 
must make the lender aware of their intention to settle early this is because the debt has to 
be calculated in a particular way.
Ive reviewed Moneybarns contact notes and I can see on 4 July 2020, Mr W requested 
partial settlement quotations for five different amounts ranging from £2,000 to £3,500. In 
order for the calculations to be correct, I believe it was reasonable for Moneybarn to say the 
arrears, due to the Covid-19 deferral period, had be to be paid for the account to be brought 
up to date. I know Mr W made a payment of £867 on 8 July 2020 in order to do so and the 
next day he requested partial settlement quotations for £2,000, £2,300, £2,500 and £2,750.
Generally speaking, when a borrower makes a lender aware they intend to settle the loan 
early or make a partial settlement, I would expect written confirmation of the quotation to be 
provided within seven days. In this case, due to IT system errors, Moneybarn was unable to 
do so and their notes indicate the issue was flagged to their finance and IT departments to 
try to fix the issue as the system was recording the deferral period was still in place even 
though the arrears had been settled and payment received. Although they were able to 
provide an early settlement quotation on 9 July 2020 for £4,315, the partial settlement 
quotation for the amounts of £2,000 and £2,500,werent able to generate until 23 July 2020. 
However it doesnt appear these quotations were ever communicated to Mr W and the 
reason as to why is unclear. 
Mr W said had they provided the quotations earlier, he wouldve made a partial settlement 
thereby receiving a greater rebate. When considering this complaint I must take into account 
the wider circumstances and the impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on financial 
businesses such as Moneybarn and their ability to provide their usual service. I can 
appreciate they were extremely busy dealing with many requests for deferral periods from 
those who were struggling financially. This is likely to have caused a great strain and 
additional pressure on them. On that basis, I dont think the initial delay to generate the 
partial settlement quotations was beyond reasonable given the circumstances but as 
mentioned earlier, its unclear why it wasnt communicated to Mr W once generated. I cant 
say they acted unfairly by not drawing to Mr Ws attention, at the time of approving the 
deferral period, that they wouldnt be able to generate such quotations until the account was 
brought up to date. 
While Ive considered what Mr W has said about his intention to make a partial settlement, 
on balance, its difficult to say what action he wouldve taken, if any, had the quotations been 
provided when requested. I say this because prior to the deferral period, he had requested 
quotations of varying amounts on a few occasions but hadnt taken any further action at that point, such as making a partial repayment or settling the account in full. Even if I was to 
accept he wouldve made a partial repayment, its not clear how much this wouldve been 
and the impact it wouldve had on the rebate amount.
 
Taking everything into account, while I accept there were some failings by Moneybarn, such 
as failing to provide the partial settlement quotation, I cant reasonably conclude financial 
detriment has been caused to Mr W. Moneybarn have already offered £50 compensation in 
recognition of their service and I think thats a fair resolution so I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman