DRN-2137788
The complaint
Miss R makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society, which are centred
around its failure to update all of her accounts with her new address, and what it did in
response to a number of failed online transactions.
What happened
Miss R said she had a recurring problem with online, mail order transactions on her account
with Nationwide being declined. She brought a number of transactions to our attention, one
each in December 2018, in January and March 2019, and two in August 2019.
Miss R said that in some instances a security message would appear on the screen saying a
verification code would be sent by text message. But with only one exception, that message
then didnt appear. That one code that did arrive took 30 minutes to get there.
Miss R said when she raised this issue with Nationwide, it failed to provide an explanation,
blamed the card system operator whose symbol is on Miss Rs card, said she should raise
her complaint with the card system operator, said she should raise her complaint with the
merchant, or blamed her. Nationwide has said she has unreasonable expectations of it,
which she doesnt accept.
Miss R also wanted to complain about Nationwide failing to update her records with her new
address. She knew it had her new address, because that was on the documents for the
mortgage she held with Nationwide. But it only updated some of her details, not all of her
accounts with it. Nationwide said she shouldve known that her address hadnt been
updated, but she said the only accounts not updated were online only. Shes since told us
that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is investigating this.
Miss R said Nationwide had refused to deal with or ignored her requests for explanations.
And it set up each of her responses as a separate complaint. She said that was an attempt
to minimise her complaints and treat her as a serial complainer who will never be satisfied.
Miss R said Nationwide had failed to communicate in an appropriate and respectful manner.
Its correspondence was mainly dismissive and disrespectful. She said that rude and
defamatory comments had been made frequently by staff in the complaints department, and
when challenged, this wasnt addressed.
Miss R wanted an independent investigation, an apology from Nationwide, and
compensation.
Nationwide said Miss R had made at least fifteen complaints. It sent us ten complaint
response letters issued since 2017. It said some of these were out of time to be considered
now, as complaints have to be brought to our service within six months of the date on the
complaint response letter.
Nationwide said that a complaint had been upheld about a block left on Miss Rs credit card
account. Nationwide received Miss Rs SMS confirmation that the transaction was genuine
at the same time that the system was trying to process a call to her. The system didnt
process either of these, and the block was left on her account longer than it shouldve been
as a result. Nationwide said considering the wider context of Miss Rs relationship with it,
and the compensation shed already been paid, it felt that a payment of £50 for that was fair.
Nationwide now says its closing her eight accounts with it. It isnt closing her mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that whatever
was going wrong with payments made by Miss R, wasnt going wrong at Nationwide. But it is
responsible for issuing text messages under the verification system. And it had told Miss R it
wasnt. So it offered £150 to apologise for that misinformation, and the issue with text
messages. Our investigator thought that payment, and its apology, was fair.
Our investigator also said he didnt think that Nationwide made a mistake by not updating
her address on all of her accounts when she took out a new mortgage with Nationwide. He
thought it wouldve been presumptuous of Nationwide to update all Miss Rs accounts. It has
now done this, as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator said hes read the letters Nationwide sent to Mrs R. Nationwide has
apologised for inaccuracies in some of them. The tone of others seemed firm, but not
dismissive. He didnt think that Nationwide had defamed Mrs R. He didnt think it was
unreasonable for Nationwide to have raised a number of complaints, as these points had
been raised at different times. He didnt think it was unfair for Nationwide to sometimes
collate responses, and sometimes not.
Our investigator knew Nationwide was closing Mrs Rs accounts, and that this was upsetting
to her, but he said that he could see why Nationwide would think this was the best option.
Nationwide could close an account as long as sufficient notice was given. Our service
wouldnt be able to ask it not to do that if it had followed the correct process, which it had.
Miss R said that our service had seen detailed IT reports from Nationwide about what had
gone wrong, which she hadnt seen. She thought that Nationwide hadnt provided a detailed
explanation to her, and that was a failure to communicate appropriately.
Miss R listed the items that had been sent to her correct address. She said this went well
beyond just documents about her mortgage. She said that Nationwide was under a legal
obligation, arising from the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to update her
address across all its systems as soon as it got the new address for her mortgage, and it
hadnt done that.
Our investigator wrote again. He thought Nationwide had tried to look into Miss Rs concerns
about transactions failing. And he didnt think that Nationwide shouldve updated Miss Rs
address on all the Nationwide products she held. It had decided not to automatically update
addresses in this way, and it told her it wasnt going to do that.
Miss R said that the real problem was she wasnt getting a secure code to allow her to make
online transactions. She said this system didnt work at Nationwide, and that had a
particularly severe impact on her, as a vulnerable customer. She told us about her health,
and said this made her conditions worse. Miss R said that asking further questions for
clarification after shed raised a complaint shouldnt be treated as a new complaint. And she
said again that Nationwides failure to update its records was unlawful. She said it knew that
it held out of date addresses for her from December 2018, but failed to update those until
August 2019. She said this resulted in a data breach when Nationwide sent its response to
her Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to the wrong address.
Miss R didnt think Nationwide could breach its own terms and conditions, then rely on them
to close her accounts. She also said that as a result of these account closures, she was
forced to re-mortgage with a new lender at short notice, because she was no longer eligiblefor a preferential rate with Nationwide, as she was no longer a customer. She said this also
impacted her health. It had seriously exacerbated pre-existing conditions.
Our investigator then wrote to Miss R to clarify that we couldnt respond on all of the
complaints letters that Nationwide had shared with us, as some of these had been sent more
than six months before Miss R contacted our service. Miss R has reluctantly accepted this, 
and her complaint was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
This complaint raises several issues. Ill deal with those in turn below.
ICO complaint
Miss R told us she had also complained to the ICO about Nationwides failure to 
update her address for all of her accounts. Our service wont usually look at a 
complaint which the ICO is already investigating, but Miss R has now withdrawn 
her complaint at the ICO.
Jurisdiction
Our investigator wrote to tell Miss R that we couldnt provide a formal response 
through this complaint on issues which were dealt with in final response letters 
(complaint response letters giving rights to come to our service) more than six 
months before she complained to us. I know Miss R only accepted this reluctantly but 
I also appreciate that shes said its important to her to bring this matter to a close. 
Miss R may like to know that whilst our service isnt providing a formal response on 
those parts of this complaint, we can consider the history of the complaints Miss R 
had made, as part of deciding whether the issues which are in time have been dealt 
with fair he history of Miss Rs complaints into account in this way.
Complaint handling
As a related point, Miss R has been frustrated by how Nationwide has handled her 
complaints. She said that Nationwide kept recording this issue as a new complaint. 
I understand her concern to be that Nationwide wasnt linking up how many times 
this happened, and wasnt taking it sufficiently seriously. I dont think that 
Nationwide had to reopen Miss Rs previous complaints each time another 
transaction failed. And I dont think it had to link them so that each one of these 
failed transactions would now be in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. But I 
do think that, in dealing with the complaints I am considering, Nationwide has failed 
to give appropriate consideration to the fact that this kept happening. Ill bear that in 
mind when I think about compensation.Impact on Miss Rs health
Miss R said she is on the autistic spectrum, and has Obsessive Compulsive 
Disorder. And between April and July, in particular, this became much worse, 
because of what Nationwide had done. Ive asked Nationwide whether it knew 
about Miss Rs health, and it had no records that she had told it of this.
Miss R has told us this case had much more of an impact on her, because of her 
health. Shes told us that she was housebound, and hospitalised. I have taken into 
account that this issue had a more serious impact on Miss R, because of her 
health. But I dont think Nationwide was aware of quite how serious things became, 
or that it shouldve realised this.
Data protection breach through a lost DSAR response
Miss R said Nationwide had breached her data protection rights, because it sent 
its response to her DSAR to the wrong address. I think the issue of whether this 
DSAR response shouldve been sent to this old address is part of considering 
whether Nationwide shouldve updated her address across all of her accounts. Ill 
look at this below. But on the specific issue of whether this constituted a data 
breach, I can see Nationwide told Miss R that the item was returned to it intact. So 
it seems as if no one else obtained Miss Rs data as a result of this.
Loss of a preferential rate on Miss Rs mortgage
Since Miss R complained, Nationwide moved to close her accounts with it. It wasnt 
closing her mortgage, but Miss R said because she no longer held a current 
account with it, she lost access to a preferential rate for her mortgage. That meant 
she had to remortgage at very short notice.
Nationwide has sent us the details of Miss Rs mortgage. She took out a three year 
fixed term mortgage in January 2017. That was always due to expire at the start of 
2020. Whilst this happened around the same time as Miss Rs accounts were 
closed, it wasnt related to it. Nationwide has told us that Miss R would always 
have returned to its standard rate at this time. So I dont think that Miss R was 
additionally inconvenienced by having to move her mortgage after her accounts 
with Nationwide were closed.
Updating Miss Rs address  her mortgage application.
Miss R argued that Nationwide shouldve updated her address on all of her 
accounts at the time she made her mortgage application, in 2014. Nationwide 
says it doesnt do this automatically. It said it would be presumptuous of it to 
assume that, just because someone takes out a new mortgage, that means that 
they are going to live at that property. Miss R says that Nationwide shouldve 
done this, because GDPR says that if one part of an organisation is given new 
information, the whole of the organisation is deemed to know.
I think its reasonable for Nationwide to say that just taking out a mortgage doesnt 
necessarily mean that someone is moving their primary residence to that property. 
I think its reasonable for Nationwide to have done what it did then, which was to 
write to Miss R and say that, as well as to tell her how to update her address for all 
accounts if she wanted to. Nationwide also tells us that theres no evidence that 
Miss R did this.Miss R says Nationwide is required to update her address across the board, once 
its given it. She says this is a requirement of GDPR. That regulation didnt come 
into force until May 2018, so I dont think that I can take GDPR into account when 
deciding this point.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to take the steps it took in 2014, 
and not to update Miss Rs address for all of her accounts at that time.
Declined transactions  explanations given to Miss R
Miss R has told us about transactions declined on her card. These were online 
transactions. She thought this was a failing in the card scheme operators 
verification system, and has repeatedly queried why text messages under that 
system werent sent to her. Nationwide repeatedly responded that it wasnt 
responsible for sending those messages. Then it said it was, and paid £150 for this 
mistake.
I was concerned that Nationwide didnt seem to have then investigated why Miss 
R wasnt receiving these messages, or why the transactions hadnt gone through. 
So I asked Nationwide about this. In response, it said that the reason that Miss R 
wasnt getting these text messages was that her transactions were failing at an 
earlier stage. This was because the address linked to her account hadnt been 
updated.
Nationwide also said that Miss R knew this. It offered as evidence of this an email 
from Miss R, where she sets out two competing explanations she was given over 
the phone for failed transactions, one of which was an inconsistency with her 
address.
It seems very likely to me that inconsistencies with her address was the reason 
for the intermittent problems Miss R had with failed mail order transactions. 
Especially as Nationwide confirmed her old address was linked to her current 
account. And as those intermittent problems seem to have stopped at the same 
time as Nationwide updated her address for all of her accounts.
But I cant see, in any of the numerous complaint responses that Nationwide has 
sent us, that Nationwide ever confirmed this was the problem. I dont think that, 
because Miss R has mentioned this as one of two competing explanations she 
was given on the phone for a failed transaction, that means she knew that this is 
why things were going wrong.
I think that Nationwide let Miss R down by not telling her this, and Ill bear that in 
mind when I think about compensation in this case
When Nationwide shouldve updated Miss Rs addresses.
Nationwide has repeatedly said to Miss R that she could update her address 
for all her accounts now either by going online, or by going into a branch with 
identification. Miss R said Nationwide should do it, and indeed, should have 
done so already.This issue appears to have reached a stalemate, and late in 
2019 Nationwide updated all of Miss Rs accounts for her. It said it did this on 
an exceptional basis.Miss R has drawn our attention to the GDPR. I dont agree with her that the 
central concern in this case is that an organisation should be considered to be 
aware as a whole of information given to one part. But I do think that the right to 
rectification of incorrect data is relevant to my considerations in this case.
Our organisation isnt the expert on data protection issues, and I dont think its for 
me to make a finding on whether Nationwide has breached the GDPR. Our 
service has advised Miss R that the ICO is best placed to do that, and she chose 
not to pursue her complaint there. But I do think that Nationwide was aware that 
an address it held for Miss R was incorrect, and that she would like it to update 
that address. It seems to have repeatedly told Miss R that she was responsible for 
doing this herself, and it wouldnt do that for her.
I dont think I should formally decide that Nationwide ought to have updated Miss 
Rs address at the time it issued final response letters, where those final response 
letters were issued more than six months before Miss R complained to our service. 
But, as I explained above, I can take account of that history of complaints. And, 
taking those into account, I think it was abundantly clear, by April 2019, that 
Nationwide held an address which was out of date for Miss R. That address was 
linked to some of her accounts, and Miss R wanted that incorrect data to be 
rectified.
I think that it was unreasonable, in all the circumstances of this case, for 
Nationwide to continue to insist that the only way Miss Rs addresses for all 
of her accounts could be updated was for Miss R to take action to do this 
herself.
I note that Nationwide was able to take this action. It updated her address for all of 
her accounts at some time around August 2019. I think this should have been 
done before then.
Defamation
Miss R asked us to look at the communications shed received from Nationwide. 
Ive read several letters from Nationwide to her, and, like our investigator, I dont 
think Nationwide has been rude or disrespectful, although I would also agree with 
him that Nationwides tone is occasionally rather firm. I havent seen any 
defamatory comments about Miss R.
Closure of Miss Rs accounts
I understand that Nationwide has decided to close Miss Rs accounts with it. It 
didnt think she was happy with the service it was providing, and I can see shes 
made a number of other complaints. As our investigator explained, our service 
wont usually interfere with a banks decision to close someones accounts, as 
long as it acts in line with the terms of those accounts, including notice. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest to me that Nationwide has breached those terms here, 
and in particular, I can see that Miss R was given 60 days notice of account 
closure. So I dont think we should depart from our services usual approach here.
But I do think that Miss Rs unresolved issues with missing text messages have 
contributed to this decision. Quite a number of Miss Rs repeated complaints, which 
have led Nationwide to take the decision to close her accounts, were about this 
issue. Although some of those complaints are now out of time, Ive explained I can 
still consider these as the background to this recent decision by Nationwide to close Miss Rs accounts. Ill bear this in mind when I think about compensation in this 
case.
Compensation
Nationwide has paid Miss R £150 in compensation for issues related to this 
complaint. Ive set out that I Nationwide shouldve provided Miss R with an 
explanation of what was going wrong, and that I think her address shouldve been 
updated on all her accounts much earlier than it was. For these reasons, I think 
Nationwide should pay rather more compensation than it has done.
Miss R has had the ongoing frustration of complaints which have not been dealt 
with, meaning failed transactions kept happening. And she finally faced the closure 
of her eight accounts with Nationwide. Its not at all clear that Nationwide wouldve 
made the same decision about account closure, at the same point, if it had dealt 
with Miss Rs complaints about missing text messages appropriately. So I think 
Nationwide should pay Miss R a further £350 in compensation now for this issue, to 
make a total of £500. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss R replied to accept my decision. Nationwide didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Miss R a further £350, in 
addition to the £150 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman