DRN-3878949
The complaint and what happened
Miss L complains, on behalf of I, that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as 
Cashplus Bank, wont reimburse payments she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In May 2022, Miss L received a text about a new device being added to the account, 
which she didnt respond to. She later received a call from someone purporting to be 
from Cashplus. She said the number calling was the same number that appeared on 
the back of her card. She was required to pass security, the caller knew details about 
her and Is account, including recent transactions. 
Miss L was led to believe the account was at risk and transactions that hadnt been 
authorised would be stopped. Miss L followed instructions and entered codes onto a 
weblink when prompted to do so. But, and unbeknownst to Miss L, the caller had 
accessed Is account and made transactions totalling £2,680, which included use of 
the overdraft facility. 
Miss L discovered the loss when she checked the account the following day, and she 
reported the matter to Cashplus. It declined to reimburse transactions as it said Miss 
L had shared One Time Passcodes (OTPs) against instructions not to. 
When liaising with our office Cashplus agreed to refund the overdraft amount, any 
fees and charges associated with that, and amend any credit file information. But our 
investigator didnt think that went far enough. As he wasnt satisfied Miss L had acted 
with gross negligence or intent, he asked for a full refund. Cashplus has asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman; it considers as a long-standing customer, 
Miss L ought to have realised the website wasnt its, and it says there had been lots 
of information in the mainstream media about fraud and scams and being extra 
vigilant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss L (or I) isnt liable 
for payments she didnt authorise or consent to, unless she failed with gross 
negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the account and keep personalised 
security details safe. 
It appears Cashplus accepts Miss L has fallen victim to an impersonation scam, and 
didnt carry out, or otherwise authorise or consent to, the transactions in question. 
Under the PSRs, the transactions are therefore considered unauthorised. 
I dont find Miss L failed with intent to keep the security details safe. The actions she 
took were carried out in the belief she was securing the account. 
I also dont find Miss L failed with gross negligence. She believed she was speaking 
with her bank, and I understand why. They knew details about her, including genuine 
transactions carried out on Is account. And she explained the number called from 
matched a known Cashplus number found on the back of the card.  
I accept Miss L passed on information she shouldnt have, including OTPs. But I 
dont think that means she seriously disregarded an obvious risk, and therefore failed 
with gross negligence. 
Miss L believed the actions she took were to prevent unauthorised transactions on 
the account. And it seems she was led to believe a new device had been added 
without her authority. She was provided with a weblink and told to enter OTPs in 
order to put matters right. I accept I has been a customer for a number of years. I 
also accept the web address might not have been an exact match for Cashplus. But 
I dont think it was so different that Miss L ought to have been alert to an obvious risk, 
particularly as she would have been intent on following instructions she believed 
were being given by a trusted bank. And although the OTPs say DO NOT SHARE 
with anyone! they also say This should only be entered on-screen went prompted. 
Miss L didnt share the OTPs per se, rather she entered them onto the weblink when 
prompted to do so. So she wasnt only following the prompts given by the fraudster 
but also the instructions of the OTP. This was a sophisticated multi-layered process 
which started with a text which laid the groundwork for Miss L to believe she was 
speaking with her bank. Overall, I can see how Miss L was tricked into believing the 
steps she took were to keep Is account safe, and I think a lot of people would have 
been tricked into the doing the same, or something similar. 
I dont find Miss Ls actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done, that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude neither Miss L nor I is liable 
for the transactions and Cashplus needs to put that right  by refunding the 
remainder of the loss from the unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate I for the loss of use of those funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus Bank, to reimburse I the remaining £1,700 
loss, plus 8% simple interest on that sum from the date of loss to the date of settlement (less 
any lawfully deductible tax).  Cashplus is entitled to retain the initial £35 of the loss as per its 
terms and conditions and the PSRs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman