DRN-3848782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) under their home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, Admiral includes Admirals agents, surveyors, and contractors 
for the purposes of this decision letter.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs Js property was damaged during a storm. They lodged a 
claim with Admiral as the insurers of their home. Admiral accepted the claim and appointed a 
contractor. A preliminary site visit took place in January 2022, and roof repair works 
commenced in March 2022. In May 2022, Mr and Mrs J complained to Admiral because the 
work hadnt been completed and the scaffolding and debris was still present. They were also 
unhappy with the standard of work carried out by the contractors. They wanted Admiral to 
pay compensation, to appoint their own builder and for Admiral to reimburse them for the 
new repair works.
Admiral considered that it had acted fairly and reasonably in response to Mr and Mrs Js 
claim and complaint. It had paid £400 in compensation for the initial delays in completing 
repair works, however it didnt consider that it should be required to do anything else in 
response to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and referred the matter 
to our service. The services investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint. It was his view 
that Admiral should send out a loss assessor to produce a report on all concerns and settle 
the claim accordingly. He also concluded that Admiral should increase the compensation 
payment to a total of £800.
Admiral didnt agree with our investigators view and the matter has therefore been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether the service provided by Admiral was fair and 
reasonable. Ive concluded that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all respects and Ill explain 
why.
I turn firstly to what Mr and Mrs J have said in support of their complaint. They bought the 
property in September 2019 and there were no issues with the roof at that time. Following 
the storm event in November 2021, the roof and side of the house were damaged, and the 
chimney top had blown off. There had since been further storms which created more 
damage and they thought that this was due to gaps in the roof, causing more debris and 
more missing mortar or cement. However, they thought that 99% of the damage was caused 
by the storm in November 2021. They said that Admirals surveyor visited in December 2021 
and stayed for a maximum of five or ten minutes. Mr and Mrs J felt theyd been patient in 
waiting for builders to be approved and to start the work. After Admiral put up scaffolding in 
March 2022, they then waited for a further period of weeks before work started. 
Mr and Mrs J considered that the roof had been badly patched up not water-tight and looks 
awful not cosmetic. This is my property that I pay house insurance on and expected the work 
to be carried out professionally to a high standard and look aesthetically pleasing. They said 
that the pointing had been damaged due to the high winds and ripped out when the roof tiles 
came off. They said that the contractors left huge holes in my pointing, they said that this 
was wear and tear and it will not be fixed. I think this is atrocious and you can clearly see 
where the holes are due to the roof tiles being blown off. My chimney pot has not been fixed, 
which was broken in the initial storm Mr and Mrs J stated that they also later discovered 
that two roof tiles were damaged by scaffolding. These were repaired but in a different colour 
to the original tiles. They said they didnt commission their own reports as they couldnt 
afford this. They said: - All we would like is the work fixed appropriately and the correct work 
done and making the roof safe and weather tight ready for the upcoming winter... 
Mr and Mrs J said that the series of events had caused the family stress and upset. They 
said: - As consumers we have not done anything wrong, we had house insurance, a storm 
initially damaged our property and others in the surrounding areas, we called to make a 
claim, we waited months and months whilst further storms battled within the region. To finally 
get the work done and to find that the work is not up to standard, to now have to fight and 
battle on to get the work completed correctly. They also had their house up for sale and 
believed that theyd not been able to sell due to the continuing issues. They didnt want 
Admirals builder back and wanted to use their own builders so that they could vet the work.
Finally, Mr and Mrs J made it clear that whilst they would like Admiral to take responsibility 
for the issues: - I would just like to say that admiral have been great at trying to sort this 
problem for me but due to the unfortunate communication and lack of customer skills from 
the third party company admiral uses I will not be renewing my home or car insurance with 
admiral and you have unfortunately lost my custom going forward.
I now turn to Admirals response. It agreed that the delays and fact that scaffolding remained 
didnt constitute a fair and reasonable service. It explained that following storms that covered 
various parts of the country; -all insurance companies and suppliers were inundated with 
claims and reinstatement works, which had a knock on effect of a shortage of suppliers. It 
apologised for the inconvenience and offered compensation of £400 for trouble and upset 
caused. It said that arrangements had been made for the scaffolding to be removed.
Admiral said that Mr and Mrs J hadnt mentioned pointing when Admirals surveyor visited, 
and it thought that the contractors had carried out all the work that was related to the 
relevant storm damage. As to the length of time a surveyor spent at the property, it 
concluded that they were professionals who are there to carry out the necessary work to 
determine the damage and necessary work required. It said that the contractors had 
confirmed that the roofing tiles had been colour-matched to the original tiles and that the 
chimney cowl had been confirmed as repaired, along with the gable wall pointing which it 
said had significant wear related issues, unrelated to the storm damage. It also said that the 
lead around the chimney had been redressed. Finally, it wasnt aware that debris had been 
left by the contractor.
Admiral stated that Mr and Mrs J were fairly and reasonably asked to submit a surveyors 
report for the disputed parts of the complaint to show that works were required due to storm 
damage and not wear and tear. As theyd failed to do so, Admiral didnt consider that it had 
been given the opportunity to reinvestigate the complaint points. Finally, regarding the scaffolding, Admiral stated that its contractor left the scaffolding up in case they had to go 
back out, due to the complaint which had been lodged.
The surveyors report from December 2021 stated that: On external inspection of the roof 
from ground level at the front of the property there is no evidence of deterioration to the roof 
covering which appears to have been in a sound pre-loss condition however storm winds 
have dislodged tiles and the chimney cow[e]l which now require repairs.
Having considered all available evidence and the parties submissions, I note that the parties 
do not agree on the factual position. Admirals report included photographic evidence of the 
cowl which had been blown off. Mr and Mrs J also stated that as at mid-November 2022, the 
chimney cowl hadnt been repaired and produced photographs to support their position. 
Admiral however claimed that the chimney cowl had been repaired. It should however be a 
simple exercise to check the position. I dont consider that it would be fair and reasonable to 
expect the policyholders to instruct their own surveyors or experts in order to obtain 
additional evidence and I agree with our investigator that Admiral should now appoint a loss 
adjuster and/or surveyor to report on the position. If the cowl hasnt been replaced, Admiral 
should settle this part of Mr and Mrs Js claim without further delay.
I turn now to Mr and Mrs Js complaint that following damage caused to two red tiles, caused 
by the erection of scaffolding by Admirals contractor, the contractor replaced these with two 
black tiles. On the balance of probabilities, I accept Mr and Mrs Js argument as, on the 
balance of probabilities, this is supported by the photographs which show two black tiles 
which appear to have been replaced relatively recently. Whilst there is moss growth on the 
surrounding tiles, this isnt the case for the two black coloured tiles. I consider it unlikely they 
were replaced before Mr and Mrs J purchased their house in 2019 and I have no reason to 
doubt their version of events. Admiral has stated that its contractors said that the roofing tiles 
had been colour-matched to the original tiles. I consider it likely that confusion has arisen as 
the storm-damaged tiles on the gable-end of the property may well have been colour-
matched, but that the scaffolding-damaged tiles werent. Admiral should appoint a loss 
adjuster and/or surveyor to report on the position and should settle this part of the claim 
without further delay.
As to the work carried out to replace roofing tiles on the gable-end of the property and the 
eaves pointing directly under the replacement tiles, I agree that the photographic evidence 
produced by Mr and Mrs J doesnt indicate that work was carried out to a fair and reasonable 
standard and Admirals loss adjuster and/or surveyor should report on the position. Admiral 
should then settle Mr and Mrs Js claim to place them back in the position they would have 
been in prior to the storm damage.
As to the gable wall itself, I note from the available photographic evidence that the gable wall 
brickwork together with the chimney stack may be suffering from wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration. The contractors view was that the eave pointing was also suffering from wear 
and tear. However, due to the extent of the visible mortar debris following the November 
2021 storm, I consider it likely that the predominant cause of the failure of the mortar directly 
under the tiles on the gable end was storm related. I therefore agree with the services 
investigator that this element should be considered further under the terms and conditions of 
the policy. In the circumstances, Admirals loss adjuster and/or surveyor should again report 
on the position and Admiral should settle this part of the claim as appropriate in accordance 
with the professional recommendation of its loss adjuster and/or surveyor.
As to the delay in work commencing, I note that Admiral had accepted that there had been 
unfair and unreasonable delays and that it had paid £400 in compensation to acknowledge 
this. I note that the contractor failed to carry out work for many months. Whilst I realise that 
there may have been considerable demands upon insurance services and contractors following widespread storm events, here I consider that the delays were neither fair nor 
reasonable. Ive also noted that the works which were carried out may not have been to a 
fair and reasonable standard. Ive further noted that scaffolding had remained in place for an 
extended period and these on-going problems may well have affected the saleability of Mr 
and Mrs Js property. I also accept that the photographic evidence indicated that debris 
which resulted from the storm damage wasnt removed by Admirals contractor. 
In the circumstances, I accept that the impact of the various problems which Admirals 
handling of Mr and Mrs Js claim had over a period of over a year was significant. Im 
therefore satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay compensation in 
the total sum of £800 (to include the £400 previously offered by Admiral. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited and require it to do the following: -
- To urgently appoint a loss adjuster and/or surveyor to report generally and 
specifically on the matters listed in the body of this letter.
- Subject to all relevant terms and conditions of the policy, to settle Mr and Mrs Js 
claim for any missing chimney cowl, two non-matching tiles and any defective tiling 
and eave-pointing below the replaced tiles.
- Subject to all relevant terms and conditions of the policy and the recommendations of 
its loss adjuster and/or surveyor, to settle Mr and Mrs Js claim as appropriate, for 
any other eave-pointing and brickwork pointing on the gable end of the property.
- To pay compensation in the total sum of £800, to include the sum of £400 already 
paid to Mr and Mrs J, for the distress and inconvenience caused by Admirals 
handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman