DRN-4026975
The complaint
Mr J complains that when discussing a finance agreement for a car, Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited trading as Stratstone (Pendragon) breached FCA guidelines, 
gave him incorrect information, and applied several products he didnt want. 
What happened
Mr J attended a virtual sales interview with the dealership in June 2022. Weve been 
provided with a video of this interview, which weve offered to share with Mr J, so I wont go 
through the full details of the interview here. 
Mr J says that he made it clear he didnt want any additional products, but the salesperson 
said they had to go through products Mr J was eligible for. Mr J has said that he felt they 
used scaremongering tactics in their questions about insurance products, and that despite 
saying No, two products were added. When he questioned this, he says he was told it was 
part of an FCA requirement to offer these. Mr J felt that when the salesperson went through 
the details of these products, they only explained the benefits, not the disadvantages. 
When the paperwork was received by Mr J, he contacted the dealership to query the fact 
that the order form had a statement saying that the odometer reading was currently under 
investigation and its accuracy couldnt be relied upon and should be ignored. This concerned 
Mr J, and the dealership told him it was just standard wording. Mr J noted that the 
manufacturer website states that all vehicles come with an independently verified mileage 
and he thinks these two statements are contradictory. 
Mr J chose not to go ahead and acquire the car and raised a complaint shortly after with 
Pendragon. They responded and didnt uphold his complaint. They felt they had followed 
their process and were satisfied they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service in October 2022, saying that he wanted the 
dealership to accept that their practices were not compliant with FCA guidelines and that he 
hadnt gone ahead because of the wording about the odometer, and the poor treatment 
received due to the aggressive sales tactics. Mr J would like compensating for this. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said having viewed 
the video of the sale, they couldnt see any evidence of breaches of guidelines, or any 
pressure or aggressive sales tactics. They also said that they had looked into the wording 
about the odometer but been told that both the statement on the order form, and on the 
website, were standard manufacturer wording. They agreed this seemed contradictory, but if 
the disclosure warning the mileage was being checked was part of the sales process, and it 
had caused Mr J not to go ahead with the sale, then it had served its purpose. If it hadnt 
been disclosed, and there was some sort of issue down the line, this might have been a 
problem, but as Mr J hadnt gone ahead with the purchase, no detriment was caused, so 
they couldnt agree anything was unfair. They also explained that it wasnt our role as a 
service to comment on or investigate a businesss sales processes generally.  
Mr J disagreed with this. The investigator tried to explain that if he had concerns with the 
general processes being followed by Pendragon, he would be better to raise these with the 
FCA directly. Mr J confirmed he had done this. Mr J also felt that there was significant 
potential for detriment to consumers from these processes, but the Investigator explained 
that we cant consider potential detriment in other cases, only actual detriment caused to Mr 
J. The investigator asked Mr J if he wanted a copy of the video of the sale again, but he said 
he didnt, and that he wanted an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the complaint.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J has been represented in bringing his complaint to our service by his son, but for 
simplicity, I will always refer to comments or evidence as being presented to us by Mr J. 
With regards to the overall compliance of the sales process and its compliance with FCA 
guidance, I agree with our investigators explanation about this. I am glad to hear that Mr J 
has raised his concerns directly with the FCA, as it isnt part of our remit to comment on or 
punish a business regarding their general sales processes. 
Our role is to assess what happens in the individual circumstances of a case, to decide 
whether any wrongdoing has occurred in this particular instance. That might be where 
pressure is wrongly put on a consumer, or information is not disclosed to them, or wrong 
information is given to them, which leads to some detriment. Mr J has quoted previous cases 
looked into by our service where business processes have been deemed unfair, but I am 
only considering the specific issues in this case. 
The video clearly shows a process is being followed, as there are documents and screens 
being produced at various points and shared with Mr J. I can only comment on the fairness 
of the process in this specific case; in my opinion, things are explained fairly to Mr J, and no 
pressure is put on him. Theres no evidence of him suffering any distress as part of this 
process, and when he says he doesnt want a product, the salesperson moves on and 
accepts Mr Js statement. Mr J queries the price of the vehicle, and the salesperson goes 
away to check and amends the price to what Mr J told them hed seen it for. 
Mr J has specifically said that Pendragon didnt explain adequately the information on 
exclusions or limitations of their products. However, Mr J was clear when each product was 
discussed that he didnt want it. Id expect any limitations or exclusions to be disclosed 
before signing up for a product, but as it never reached this stage, I am not concerned here. 
Pendragon had further opportunity to discuss any product details if Mr J had indicated an 
interest in a product, and to provide paperwork with further details. But as the process 
doesnt reach this stage, I dont agree anything unfair has happened here. 
Im not sure whether Mr J didnt quite understand what our Investigator was trying to explain, 
but the Investigator is saying they have no concerns with the process followed in this specific 
instance and set of circumstances, and Mr J feels the process is inherently unfair. Mr J 
hasnt decided to acquire a car at the end of the process, so no financial detriment has 
occurred here. Mr J hasnt shown any signs of distress during the process and has been 
dealt with respectfully and calmly by the salesperson. I can see no evidence of any pressure 
or aggressive sales tactics as Mr J has described. Im sorry if he felt any pressure from the 
process, but I cant see any evidence of any pressure being applied. With regards to the disclosure on the order form about the odometer mileage being 
investigated, again, Im unclear how Mr J feels this has caused any detriment to him, as hes 
decided not to go ahead and acquire the car at this point. If Mr J hadnt seen the disclosure, 
and subsequently it turned out there was a discrepancy with the mileage, I would need to 
consider whether this was an unfair term in the agreement. But he hasnt gone ahead with 
the agreement. 
I agree that the statement on the website, compared to the statement on the sales order 
form, appear to be somewhat contradictory. If there had been a problem after acquiring the 
car, Id have likely been considering whether it was fair of Pendragon to rely on this 
statement on the order form. But there hasnt been an issue as Mr J hasnt gone ahead with 
the agreement.  
Its possible that whats happened is that the business was still checking and verifying the 
mileage, as per their website statement, meaning that they couldnt guarantee it at the point 
the order form was produced. But they havent told us this was the case, just that these are 
standard terms produced by the manufacturer or finance company on the paperwork. 
Id agree this wasnt very clear, but in these circumstances, it hasnt caused any detriment to 
Mr J. Hes been concerned by the statement on the order form and decided not to go ahead 
with the agreement. The business has potentially lost a sale, but I cant say that has caused 
any financial damage to Mr J, or any distress or inconvenience. Hes seen the statement, 
queried it, doesnt like the answer hes provided so hes decided not to go ahead with the 
agreement. This would always be his prerogative, and I cant agree that this part of the 
process has caused him any harm or detriment.
Overall, I am not upholding this complaint. Having seen the video of the sales process, I 
have seen no detriment caused to Mr J, and no evidence of any distress caused to him. I 
appreciate that he feels the process could be unfair hypothetically in different circumstances, 
but in his own circumstances, which are all its within my power to consider, Ive seen nothing 
unfair, no pressure selling, and no detriment created. As such, I wont be asking Pendragon 
to do anything more.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman