DRN-2232804
The complaint
Mr H complains about aspects of the service provided to him by Nationwide Building Society.
Mr H is concerned that some of the points he complained about have simply not been
addressed.
What happened
Mr H said that he had complained about Nationwides service at the end of August 2019. He
said this complaint was acknowledged, but a full response had never been provided.
Mr Hs complaint was that he wasnt able to verify himself on the phone on 7 August,
although he thought hed given enough information to do that. And he couldnt block a
payment that he wanted to make sure didnt go through.
Mr H said he had a further point of complaint that he hadnt discussed over the phone. He
was asked by Nationwide to say what this was, when it was about to reply to his complaint.
Nationwide gave him a very short deadline to do that.
Mr H emailed Nationwide and repeated his earlier complaint about the phone conversation
on 7 August. He also made his third complaint point, which raised a number of issues about
the standard of dress and of service of staff at his local branch. He said he was unable to get
served quickly when he visited. He thought that staff should be required to open all the
available counters when the branch is busy, and said he didnt believe that delays on 20 July
were caused by a power cut and time then taken to get systems back online.
Mr H then received a response to his complaint which was sent before the deadline
Nationwide had given him. So it, unsurprisingly, didnt take this third point into account. He
was paid £50 for mistakes which meant he failed Nationwides security, and a poor attitude
from the call handler.
Mr H said he still wanted the additional points hed made to be addressed.
Mr H said he sent a follow up email on 23 August, and received a reply saying his complaint
would receive a response within seven days. He didnt get a response. He then rang a little
over a week later, on 4 September, and was given a reference number for his complaint. He
was promised on this call that hed get a response within 56 days, but although he chased
this up on 15 October, he didnt get a reply.
On 26 October, Mr H still hadnt received a response, so he raised the issue in branch too.
He said he heard nothing again for a couple of weeks. Then on 13 November Nationwide
asked him to get in touch, but before he was able to do so, it sent a response and, again,
paid him £50.
Mr H said he was told that the record of his earlier complaint couldnt be accessed by
Nationwide, as the person whod made the record was now on long term sick leave.
Mr H wrote to Nationwide on 26 November. The note he has sent us copies his email of 12
August to Nationwide, which set out his third complaint point. But the email that Nationwide
says he sent on that date doesnt match this at all. That email just says that Mr H has spent
lots of time putting the case together, its complex and may need to be dealt with at a more
senior level.
Nationwide sent Mr H a reply on 27 November, which said that Nationwide thought it should
discuss his complaint with him, but recognised he didnt want to do that. Nationwide also
said that if there were further complaint points for it to deal with, Mr H should forward those.
This letter doesnt refer to the email dated the day before.
Mr H said Nationwide kept paying him compensation, but it wasnt actually investigating his
complaints. He wanted a senior manager at Nationwide to review the complaint, why it had
repeatedly paid him £50, and what it intended to do about all the trouble it had put him to.
(I have set out above the facts of the case as I understand them. I place these together for
ease of reading, but I also note here that our investigator didnt have access to all of this
information when she reached her view.)
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the payment
Nationwide made for the errors in the service it provided on 7 August which meant Mr H
couldnt clear security, and for the attitude of its call handler then, was fair. And Nationwide
sent a final response letter on 12 August, which is well within the timescales Nationwide has
for responding to complaints. It couldnt be sure if Mr H had received this, and it paid a
further £50 for the delay in responding to his further complaint points. Our investigator
thought that was also fair. She didnt think it was appropriate for our service to deal with Mr
Hs third complaint point, about processes and uniforms of staff in branch.
Our investigator said we dont give a set amount for each individual error a business has
made. Rather, we look at everything thats happened, then take a step back to assess what
we think would be fair compensation overall. Our investigator thought Mr H had been fairly
compensated.
Mr H replied to disagree. He said that he couldnt access his account on 7 August, because
Nationwide didnt recognise him, but he never got any notification from Nationwide that
someone it didnt think was him had tried to access his account.
Mr H said Nationwide had given him a deadline of an hour and a half to submit his 
additional, third complaint point. Nationwide then hadnt responded to that point, which he
thought wasnt good practice. He said he raised this again on 23 August in a case summary,
he was told hed get a response within 7 days, but didnt. Again, he didnt think that was
good practice.
Mr H said that he phoned the contact centre on 4 September, and was told hed get a
response within 56 days, but he didnt get that either. He only managed to get a response to
his complaint after going to the Nationwide branch, and that response only said Nationwide
would look into this.
Mr H said Nationwide had admitted its record of his complaint was locked, and Mr H said this
must be an error on its part. Mr H said hed then been contacted by someone who wanted to
talk to him rather than put things in writing. Mr H told us he sent the details over on 26
November, but Nationwide closed the complaint the next day, which Mr H said indicated that
the case handlers mind was made up.
Mr H said that either Nationwide had struggled to understand his complaint, or it had ignored
it. He didnt think it was reasonable that hed had to chase the case to this extent. And he
didnt think Nationwide should be able to ignore him.Our investigator wrote again. She hadnt changed her mind, and she said we dont regulate,
supervise or discipline banks.
Mr H replied that Nationwide had paid £50 for the tone of the call centre operative (which he
didnt remember as a problem) and for not having dealt with his follow up in reasonable time.
He said that no attempt had been made to address not having told him about someone else
trying to access his account, and no attempt had been made to deal with the further points
he was trying to raise. So he said that we should be imposing financial penalties on
Nationwide for ignoring his complaints. He thought that should trigger automatic penalties.
This case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr H is very frustrated by what he sees as Nationwide ignoring 
parts of his complaint, and providing poor customer service. He wants us to make it 
improve the way it deals with complaints, and to financially penalise Nationwide for 
ignoring him.
Before I start to deal with this case, I think it might help if I set out what our service is 
and isnt able to do. We dont exist to regulate or to penalise banks. We look at 
individual complaints. And we are limited in what we can look at.
We are able to deal with complaints about how Mr Hs bank provides him with 
banking services. But in doing that, we must be careful to follow our own jurisdictional 
rules. And that puts some complaints outside of our scope. Unfortunately, I think this 
may affect some parts of Mr Hs complaint.
Our service cant consider a complaint which is solely about how a bank has handled 
a customer complaint brought to it. Thats because dealing with customer complaints 
isnt a regulated activity. So, whilst I can understand Mr Hs frustration at some points 
in this case, I wont always be able to take those concerns into account when Im 
thinking about whether the case should be upheld, or whether compensation thats 
been paid so far by Nationwide is enough to make up for whats gone wrong. I cant 
make awards for things that fall outside of our jurisdiction. I simply have no power to 
do so.
Ill now start to look at Mr Hs complaint. His original call on 7 August raised two 
complaint points, that a payment couldnt be blocked, and that hed failed security, 
although he said all the answers he gave were right. Mr H said he had a third point 
he might raise, but hed discuss this with Nationwide when it contacted him to 
discuss the first two complaint points.
I think that Mr H had assumed that Nationwide would get in touch before it issued a 
final response letter dealing with the two points he mentioned on the phone. I dont 
think Nationwide is obliged to do that.
Nationwide did contact Mr H before it responded to his complaint, and set a short 
deadline of an hour and a half for him to reply. But Mr H told us it didnt wait for him 
to reply before it sent him a complaint response on the first two points. I can 
understand Mr Hs frustration here, although I think its up to Nationwide to decide how it manages complaints made to it. And our service couldnt consider any 
complaint by Mr H that Nationwide had chosen to respond separately to complaint 
points raised on 7 August, and to those he then raised on 12 August.
The response Nationwide sent said that it cant block payments in the way Mr H 
wanted it to, so that wasnt a mistake. It said sorry that he was asked a misleading 
security question, which led to him failing to clear security.
The letter also apologises for the poor attitude of the call handler. Mr H says he didnt 
note this poor attitude at the time, and he hadnt complained about this. Ive listened 
to that call, and I dont think the call handler did have a poor attitude.
I think that the explanation about payment blocks, and the apology over the security
questions, plus the payment of £50 that Nationwide made then, provides a fair and
reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Hs complaint, covering the two complaint 
points Mr H raised on 7 August.
Mr H has since asked why Nationwide never told him that someone it thought wasnt 
him had tried to access his account. He says it has to do that when he fails security. 
But not being able to clear through the security questions that Nationwides system 
generates isnt necessarily the same as causing Nationwide to think someone else is 
trying to access the account. And we know Nationwide apologised for asking Mr H a 
misleading security question. So it seems likely that Nationwide never thought that 
someone else was trying to access his account.
Mr H then repeatedly tried to get his third complaint point answered. He first emailed 
the original complaint handler. We now know that she unfortunately had not filed his 
complaint emails before going off unexpectedly on long term sick, and those emails 
cant be accessed by Nationwide. I dont think its within the jurisdiction of our service 
to criticise Nationwide for using personal email addresses, and relying on its staff 
filing those emails, to manage complaints.
Mr H then emailed on 23 August, asking for a response to his third points. He didnt 
say then what they were. He rang, and raised a complaint, and was given a 
reference number. He received no reply. Mr H hasnt told us that he set out on this 
call what his third complaint point was. He chased again, and Nationwide sent him an 
email on 14 November, saying it was sorry it still hadnt dealt with this additional 
issue, and paying £50. If Nationwide couldnt access the email inbox of the original 
complaint handler, then it seems most likely that Nationwide didnt actually know at 
this stage what that third point was.
Mr H wrote to Nationwide on 26 November. The note he has sent us which bears this 
date, copies his email of 12 August to Nationwide, which set out his third complaint 
point. It looks like an attachment to an email, not the email itself. As I noted above, 
the email that Nationwide says it received doesnt match this at all. That email just 
says that Mr H has spent lots of time putting the case together, its complex and may 
need to be dealt with at a more senior level.
I dont think Nationwide actually knew what Mr Hs third complaint point was, before 
this email. So I wanted to be sure that it had received Mr Hs attachment. Ive asked 
Nationwide repeatedly if there was an attachment with Mr Hs email of 26 November. 
It now says it doesnt have an email from him of 26 November. That cant be right, as 
Nationwide originally sent us a copy of this email.So Im not able to be sure that Nationwide did have Mr Hs full email, containing the 
third complaint points, on 26 November. But I think its likely that it was sent, and that 
Nationwide has now misplaced the attachment, as well as the email.
The response Nationwide sent on 27 November doesnt attempt to deal with Mr Hs 
third complaint point. I think its most likely that Nationwide did have it by then, so I 
dont think this complaint shouldve been closed with no substantive response.
Our service has now forwarded Mr Hs email of 12 August to Nationwide. I invited it 
to provide a substantive response for the purposes of this complaint, and it has 
chosen not to do so. It has suggested that it has already done so, and forwarded 
details of a conversation it had with Mr H. This is also a complaint about poor service 
in Mr Hs local branch, which is the same broad concern as that expressed in Mr Hs 
third complaint point. But the dates and the details dont match. Its not the same 
complaint. So it currently appears that Nationwide has never responded to Mr Hs 
third complaint point.
Ive explained that our service cant deal with complaints that are solely about 
complaint handling. And Ive explained when I think issues raised in this case fall 
outside of our services jurisdiction. But when Mr H expresses concerns about over 
the counter banking, and those concerns are simply not addressed, its my view that 
this does not fall outside of our jurisdiction. I think that his complaint remains firmly 
linked to the provision of regulated banking services.
Mr Hs concerns have simply not been addressed. And, as Mr H says, he has now 
gone to considerable trouble to try to have them addressed.
Because Nationwide has failed to respond to Mr Hs concerns about how his local 
branch provides him with regulated counter services, I think it should pay Mr H £150 
now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both Mr H and Nationwide replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H wrote to comment, in particular on the third complaint point, which Nationwide had not 
yet answered. He repeated that this had been included in the original email sent on 12 
August. And he said he had included an attachment with his email of 26 November. Hes 
sent us details of the original email, which do suggest that an attachment was included with 
it. (I note that Nationwide now says it did get the email, but didnt get this attachment. Ill 
return to this below.)
Mr H said I had made reference to personal email addresses, but he said that the email 
address he initially sent his third complaint point to was a Nationwide one and used for its 
reply to a complaint against Nationwide. The only personal email address was his. 
When I referred to a personal email address, I meant that the email address was in that 
complaint handlers own name, not a general complaints inbox. Mr H has said that he thinks 
Nationwide should simply have accessed this personal employee inbox when the complaint 
handler was unexpectedly taken ill. Ive explained that I dont think its within the jurisdiction 
of our service to criticise Nationwide for using personal email addresses, and relying on its staff filing those emails, to manage complaints. Equally, I dont think its within the jurisdiction 
of our service to say that Nationwide ought to have accessed an employees email inbox in 
their absence. 
Mr H said that if Nationwide was refusing to engage with a customer, then that silence could 
be masking further issues, and he thought it was an aggravating factor in this complaint. I 
have taken Nationwides conduct into account in considering this complaint. 
Mr H also said that he thought there may be GDPR implications if information held by a 
company cannot be accessed by them. And he said it had also disclosed information relating 
to an unrelated complaint hed made. 
I know that the complaint Mr H made previously is not the same as his third complaint point, 
but its not entirely unrelated. And Mr H did agree to our service seeking information from 
Nationwide as part of this complaint. I cant see that Mr H has previously expressed these 
data protection concerns to us over Nationwide not being able to access the email he sent. 
Im unclear if Mr H wishes to pursue this point, but if he does, as a new complaint point, I 
couldnt consider it here. 
Mr H said he knew this complaint wouldnt be at the serious end of complaints against 
building societies, and he didnt consider it as such. But he didnt think Nationwide had taken 
it seriously, and it had made little attempt to resolve it. Thats why hed gone to the trouble he 
had. He said our service is supposed to consider the law, codes and good practice that 
applied at the time of the event, and he couldnt see any good practice here. Mr H wanted 
me to consider what hed said as part of implementing or even increasing the penalty against 
Nationwide. 
Our service isnt a regulator, and we dont apply penalties to businesses. Any award I make 
in this case is about recognising the impact this complaint had on Mr H. It isnt, and cant be, 
about punishing Nationwide, or trying to make sure that Nationwide does better in future. 
Ill now look at what Nationwide said. It said I was right to say that it didnt know what the 
third complaint point was when it paid Mr H £50, and it said it did not get an attachment with 
Mr Hs email of 26 November. Nationwide said Mr Hs email hadnt referred to an 
attachment. I appreciate that, but Mr Hs covering email still appears to me to be just that, a 
covering email, and he has shown us further evidence suggesting an attachment was sent. I 
still think its more likely than not that it was sent, and I dont know why Nationwide didnt get 
it. I dont think thats likely to be Mr Hs fault.
Nationwide said Id mentioned that the complaint it responded to, when I asked it to tackle 
Mr Hs third complaint point, wasnt actually his third complaint point. It noted that Mr Hs 
third complaint point, about his local branch, mirrors the complaint he made in 2018, which is 
the one it had sent us. But the more recent complaint, which is Mr Hs third complaint point, 
refers to a day in July 2019 when he had visited the branch and there had been a power cut, 
so the branch staff were working hard to get systems up and running.
Ill set out Nationwides response here in some detail, as this is the first response Mr H will 
have had to this complaint point. 
Nationwide said Mr H was unhappy this power cut had caused a queue in the branch and 
seems to doubt that there had been a power cut. Nationwide said it could confirm that if a 
member of staff had explained to Mr H that there had been a power cut and the queue was 
as a result of them having to get systems back up and running, this is what had happened. Nationwide said that Mr H was also unhappy that the Branch Manager was not visible at this 
time, but Nationwide thought it was likely the Branch Manager was attending to the important 
task of getting the branch back to business as usual.
Mr H also referred again to his point in his 2018 complaint that the counters are not always 
all open and staff are sometimes sitting at a table to his left. Nationwide said this was 
addressed in his previous complaint. 
Mr H also expressed dissatisfaction that some of the female members of staff were wearing 
sandals and he feels this is leisure wear. 
Nationwide said that if it had received these complaint details and had an opportunity to deal 
with them alongside his current complaint, it would have apologised that Mr H was 
unfortunate enough to have visited the branch right after a power cut, but such events are 
outside of its control. It would also have informed him that it is confident the branch staff are 
delivering a high level of service and wearing summer shoes in a warm climate does not 
affect this. Nationwide said it would have refuted all aspects of Mr Hs complaint about the 
branch and would not have offered any compensation in relation to them.
Nationwide said it couldnt agree that paying £150 to Mr H for not responding to his third 
complaint point was a fair outcome. It said it has repeatedly tried to contact Mr H by 
telephone, SMS and email to establish what his third complaint is and to discuss it with him 
and has been unsuccessful at every attempt. Nationwide said Mr H asked it not to write to 
him, he has said he does not want to discuss the matters by phone, and it had asked several 
times over SMS and email for him to provide details. Nationwide said that whilst it had 
shown poor service at times, for which it has compensated him, Mr H hadnt helped in 
resolving this aspect of his complaint.
Nationwide said it was sending me details to illustrate the number of times we have been in 
contact with Mr H. It has sent a number of notes of contact attempts, which are largely 
undated. 
Ive considered what Nationwide has said carefully, but I continue to see this complaint 
rather differently. Mr H preferred to raise his third complaint point in writing, through email, 
rather than discuss concerns about branch staff over the phone. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. 
Mr Hs first email was ignored, because Nationwide chose to respond to his earlier complaint 
points without waiting to see what the third one was. It did this although Mr H has noted that 
he did meet the rather tight deadline Nationwide gave of an hour and a half, to have all of 
these points dealt with together. This email wasnt picked up for any reply after this, because 
of an unfortunate staff illness. 
Mr H then tried for some time to get this third point taken up. The largely undated contact 
notes Nationwide has recently sent dont appear to me to show contact during this relevant 
period (which covers part of August, and all of September and October).  And its digital 
record of complaint or feedback communication sent shows nothing in this period. 
Mr H went into a branch to raise the issue again towards the end of October, and in the 
middle of November, Nationwide did contact him. It apparently didnt receive his full 
explanation of the complaint, but instead of querying why he appeared to have sent only a 
two-line email, it tried to ring him, although what Nationwide has sent us also suggests he 
had already said he didnt want to talk on the phone. When it couldnt get through, 
Nationwide wrote to him. That letter told Mr H that if he wasnt prepared to talk to 
Nationwide, he had to come to our service.Then finally, when invited to respond to the third complaint point by our service, Nationwide 
failed to identify the complaint, although our service had actually sent it to Nationwide at this 
point. This caused yet more delay. 
All of this has meant that Mr H has waited for over a year for any response to his third 
complaint points. Whilst I can see opportunities for Mr H to speed up this process, I dont 
think his communication preferences can be blamed for all of this delay. I also note that Mr H 
has needed to expend considerable effort to get any response at all to his complaint. 
I do continue to think that this was poor service from Nationwide, and although I noted 
previous payments were made, I still think an award of £150 is the right amount to provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr H £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman