DRN-3759865
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not fairly compensate him after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1999. 
What happened
Mr H first complained to HSBC about the sale of PPI back in 2003. At the time, HSBC 
agreed to refund the PPI premiums. It also agreed to pay a further flat figure of £80 to Mr H 
to cover the interest hed paid on his card because of the PPI. Shortly afterwards, Mr H 
wrote to HSBC to say he disagreed with its calculation. HSBC then agreed to refund a 
further £4.72 in PPI premiums and £11.42 in respect of card interest to Mr H. Following that 
refund, although Mr H didnt accept the calculation, it doesnt look as though any further 
action was taken by either party at that time. 
In or around 2019, Mr H complained to HSBC again in which he said he disagreed with how 
HSBC had calculated his compensation back in 2003. HSBC did not consider the complaint 
further because it said Mr H had been fully compensated in 2003. 
Mr H then complained to this service. HSBC thought Mr Hs complaint had been brought to 
us too late. I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I said this service could consider the 
complaint and the matter was referred to our adjudicator for investigation in the first instance. 
HSBC then recalculated its offer of compensation to Mr H. After adding simple interest, it 
worked out a further £233.98 would have been paid to him if the method it used to calculate 
compensation today had been applied in 2003. However, it agreed to pay a further £400 to 
Mr H as a gesture of goodwill and to bring the complaint to a close. 
Mr H didnt accept HSBCs offer. He provided his own calculation in which he said he 
thought HSBC should pay a further £2,116.66. However, our adjudicator thought HSBCs 
offer to pay £400 was fair. 
Mr H did not agree with that view. He thought HSBC should compensate him for the time 
and effort hed put into pursuing his complaint. He said that if hed been successful in court, 
HSBC would have had to pay his costs. He reiterated his view that his calculation as to the 
card interest hed paid was correct. He also stated that if 8% simple interest was to be paid 
for the time he was out of pocket for the PPI, that he should be paid 8% simple interest on 
each payment for each year. 
As Mr H did not accept our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr H will be disappointed, but my decision is that HSBCs calculation of 
compensation is fair. Ill explain why below. 
HSBC offered to refund to Mr H what hed paid for PPI. So in circumstances such as these, 
Id expect it to undertake a number of steps in calculating compensation. First of all, it would 
need to remove all of the PPI premiums that were added to Mr Hs credit card account, as 
well as any interest charged on those premiums. It would also need to remove any charges 
that were caused by the PPI. 
When undertaking this calculation, if HSBC worked out that Mr H would have paid enough to 
clear his credit card balance, HSBC would need to pay 8% simple interest on the extra Mr H 
paid. And it would need to keep paying that interest until the point when Mr H would have 
owed something on his credit card again. 
I can see Mr H has gone to a lot of trouble to provide us with his own calculation of PPI 
compensation. Im grateful for his efforts. However, having considered that information in 
some detail, I cant say it reflects the approach Id expect HSBC to take. 
For example, I can see that Mr H calculated 8% simple interest on each PPI premium he 
paid. But as I said above, Id only expect such interest to be paid where Mr Hs credit card 
account would have been in credit but for the PPI premiums. 
The reason for this is that the purpose of this simple interest is to reflect the period when Mr 
H would have been out of pocket because of the PPI policy. Its effectively paid to 
compensate Mr H for the lost opportunity he had to spend the money he was wrongly 
charged for PPI in the way he wanted to. Mr H argued that he would have been out of pocket 
every month that he was charged PPI. But he hadnt actually paid for the cost of the PPI until 
his account would have been in credit. So he hadnt lost an opportunity to spend those funds 
 or he wasnt out of pocket  whilst there was an outstanding balance on his credit card.
Similarly, when Mr Hs credit account would have been in credit, he wouldnt have paid card 
interest on his PPI premiums. But I note from his calculation that he continued to add in card 
interest when the balance was £0. Effectively, the interest hed paid on his PPI premiums 
should have also returned to £0 at that point as well.  
In any event, Im satisfied that HSBCs offer of compensation was fair. The parties generally 
agree as to how much Mr H paid in PPI premiums. And Im satisfied that HSBCs calculation 
of 8% simple interest is in line with what Id expect. 
HSBC hasnt provided us with a detailed calculation as to the card interest Mr H would have 
been charged because of the PPI. However, I can see that it refunded £91.42 for card 
interest back in 2003 and 2004. I can see it calculated Mr H was due a further £233.98 in 
simple interest but offered to pay £400. Ive taken that to mean it was paying a further 
£166.02 in card interest. Altogether for card interest, HSBC has essentially offered to refund 
£257.44.  
The overarching test for me to apply in this case is whether HSBCs offer of compensation is 
fair. Whilst I decided that this complaint fell within the jurisdiction of this service, Im also 
mindful that the complaint was initially raised in 2003. In those circumstances, I dont 
consider it would be proportionate for HSBC or for me to calculate that card interest down to 
the penny. I am satisfied that the sum of £257.44 broadly reflects the card interest Mr H 
would have paid because of the PPI policy. Taking all of the circumstances of this case in 
the round, Im satisfied that HSBCs offer of compensation is broadly fair. 
I know Mr H said that I should direct HSBC to compensate him for the time and trouble hed 
been put to in pursuing his complaint. I note he said that HSBC would have been liable for 
his costs if hed taken the matter to court. However, this service is an informal dispute 
resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. 
With that being so, I wouldnt usually expect HSBC to pay Mr Hs costs for bringing the 
complaint, in the same way as I wouldnt expect Mr H to pay the costs of HSBC if Id found 
PPI wasnt mis-sold. I accept that bringing this complaint did require some effort on Mr Hs 
part. However, I dont require HSBC to compensate Mr H for his efforts in that regard. With that in mind, Im satisfied HSBCs offer to compensate Mr H after it mis-sold PPI to him 
is fair. If it has not done so already and Mr H accepts my decision, it must arrange to pay to 
him its further offer of £400. 
My final decision
The offer HSBC Bank UK Plc made to settle Mr Hs complaint after it mis-sold PPI is fair. If 
Mr H accepts my decision, HSBC Bank UK Plc must arrange to pay a further £400 to him if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman