DRN-1383342
 
The complaint
Mr F says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr F took out a Barclays credit card online in 2009. At the same time, Barclays sold him PPI 
to protect his card repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold, but they did think Barclays had mis-
handled his complaint. Following our involvement, Barclays agreed to offer Mr F £50 as 
compensation.
Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, so the case was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding it. Ive carefully considered what Mr F says about how the PPI 
was sold, including that he didnt agree to take it. But Im mindful that the PPI was sold more 
than ten years ago, meaning his recollection of what happened might, understandably, no 
longer be as accurate as he believes. It could be that he was told he didnt have to take the 
PPI but simply doesnt recall that now.
From experience of how Barclays sold these PPI policies online at the time, I believe he was 
likely given the choice to take various levels of PPI or to decline it altogether. Barclays 
internal record of the details Mr F provided during the online application indicate he chose 
the level of PPI that was added. And the confirmation letter I believe Barclays sent him 
subsequently further supports that.
I recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling on this point but think it just as likely he chose to take 
the PPI. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Fs complaint, but I 
dont think there are. Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, but it still needed to 
provide him with clear, fair and non-misleading information about it to enable him to make 
his own decision about its suitability. I cant say for sure what information Barclays gave Mr F. But, from what I know of Mr Fs 
circumstances, I think hed have seen the PPI as being right for him. I say that because:
It seems Mr F would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest he was significantly affected by the major exclusions to, or limits on, the 
policy.
While Mr Fs suggested says he had savings he could have relied on if he was off 
work, he cant recall how much he had. And he was only entitled to enhanced sick 
pay for a limited time, if at all. The PPI benefits would potentially have paid out for up 
to 12 months per claim. These could have allowed him to retain his savings or put 
them towards covering his other living costs if he wasnt working. So, I think Mr F 
would have seen the PPI as providing useful additional protection. 
I cant see that the PPI would have been unaffordable to Mr F. And it was flexible in 
that he could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided he no 
longer wanted it.
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr F about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 
Barclays also now accepts there were errors in how it handled this complaint. In recognition, 
its offered to pay £50 in total as compensation and I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances.  
Putting things right
Barclays has to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mr F any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr F the difference 
between what Mr F owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr F 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr F can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay Mr F £50 as compensation for its handling of the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman