DRN-3065094
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs R complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with 
their buildings insurance claim. As most of our contact has been with Mrs R, Ill keep things 
simple and refer mostly only to her.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here. 
Mr H and Mrs R took out a home insurance policy with Fairmeads predecessor in October 
2013 and renewed the policy yearly. The policy covered buildings only  contents cover was 
not included. On 4 March 2018 a pipe burst in the roof void of a neighbouring property and 
water damage was caused to the shared wall between the two properties. In total, four 
rooms in Mrs Rs home were damaged. 
Mrs R submitted a claim to Fairmead on 13 March 2018. Fairmeads loss adjusters visited 
Mrs Rs home on 21 March 2018 to validate the claim, which Fairmead then accepted. Mrs R 
moved out of her home and into the home of a relative on 6 April 2018, as she had concerns 
about how mould growth was affecting her and her sons health. Mrs R said she paid rent of 
£600 per month to her relative. 
Mrs R phoned Fairmead on 11 April 2018 and confirmed she wanted the work carried out by 
Fairmeads contractors, so a referral was made by Fairmead to its contractors about drying 
out the property on 17 April 2018, and drying equipment was installed on 22 April 2018.
Mrs R complained to Fairmead in May 2018 about delays in handling her claim. Fairmead 
acknowledged it provided a poor level of service and awarded Mrs R £150 compensation. 
Over the next few months the walls were stripped of wallpaper, then later of plaster and were 
dried out. Some of the contents of Mrs Rs home were put into storage by Fairmead in mid-
July 2018. 
Mrs R again complained to Fairmead in July 2018 about delays, alternative accommodation 
(AA) and the impact this was having on her and her sons health. 
Fairmead responded and acknowledged delays in carrying out work on Mrs Rs home and 
offered £150 compensation. It also said it initially decided not to offer Mrs R AA as there 
were sleeping and bathing facilities at her home. And it offered a daily disturbance allowance 
(DA) of £35 instead. Fairmead said it later looked at AA options, but said Mrs R didnt feel 
the properties offered were suitable. It told Mrs R a different property was available and 
provided her with details of who to contact if she wanted to accept the property. Fairmead 
said it would review what Mrs R said about her and her sons health upon receipt of 
information from her doctor. 
The drying of the walls in Mrs Rs home was completed in late August 2018 and a certificate 
of dryness was received by Fairmead on 7 September 2018. The repair works were 
scheduled to start on 23 October 2018 and then rescheduled for 20 November 2018.
Mrs R again complained to Fairmead in December 2018 and said there was no sense of 
urgency on Fairmeads part in dealing with her claim. She said mould had grown in other 
rooms and she wanted this to be addressed. Mrs R also wanted to know the completion date 
for the work, and complained about how a member of staff dealt with her. 
Fairmead responded and said the expected completion date was 31 December 2018. It said 
a new loss adjuster had been appointed who would review the work done to date and would 
look into the issue of mould in other rooms. Fairmead offered a further £250 compensation. 
Fairmead contacted Mrs R in February 2019 and said the claim was concluded, that 
arrangements could be made to return the contents and only snagging issues remained. 
Mrs R said the flooring in her home was damaged because it hadnt been properly protected 
when work was carried out. An inspection of the carpets was carried out in late February 
2019, and in mid-March 2019 Fairmead agreed to clean the carpets.
 
Mrs R complained to Fairmead again in May 2019 about a lack of communication, the 
completion date of December 2018 not being adhered to and about the carpets being 
cleaned rather than replaced. 
Fairmead said a new loss adjuster was appointed in December 2018 and there were some 
issues that needed to be addressed, such as wallpaper costs that couldnt be authorised 
until there was additional information to support the claim. And it said it didnt intend to 
replace the carpets. But Fairmead offered £150 compensation for poor service. 
The carpets in Mrs Rs home were cleaned on 7 June 2019. Mrs R was asked to arrange for 
the return of the contents of her home by 14 June 2019 and Fairmead stopped paying DA 
from that point.
 
Mrs R remained unhappy with how Fairmead responded to her complaints and continued to 
handle her claim, so she complained to this service in June 2019. In summary, Mrs R said: 
Mould had grown on the walls by the time drying equipment was installed. She told 
Fairmead about the impact this was having on her and her familys health and she 
was told to live through it. She and her family moved to cramped living conditions. 
DA of £35 per day barely covered one meal for her family and even though the house 
was not clean enough to live in, this was stopped on 14 June 2019.  
Protective coverings werent put on carpets, wooden flooring and furnishings. The 
carpets were professionally cleaned and were now a different colour. Wooden floors 
had plaster marks, so all affected flooring should be replaced. 
All furniture and contents were dirty. 
She provided evidence of the cost of two of the three wallpaper types. 
Three wall mirrors were meant to be replaced, but these were thrown away.
There were significant delays and miscommunication.  
A radiator valve was broken when furniture was moved out into storage.
In September 2019 Fairmead arranged to clean the contents of Mrs Rs home that had been 
in storage. 
Mrs R again complained to Fairmead in November 2019 as she remained unhappy about 
several aspects of the handling of her claim. 
Fairmead responded and said the carpet cleaning was adequate and the element of colour 
change was age related and general wear and tear. And the contractors said scuff marks on 
the laminate flooring were not caused by them. It said it had agreed to clean, not replace, the mouldy mirrors, so Mrs R was entitled to the cost of cleaning, which was £138. Fairmead 
also said it allowed wallpaper costs of £50 for one room and £30 for another. It said a 
builders clean was needed and the contents would be returned once this was carried out. 
Fairmead said it would cash settle the damaged radiator and draft excluder and look into 
Mrs Rs concerns about her health if she provided evidence from her GP.
 
The items in storage were returned to Mrs R in January 2020. In the same month, 
Fairmeads contractors inspected the flooring in Mrs Rs home and recommended the 
carpets and laminate flooring be replaced. Mrs R and her family moved back home in 
January 2020. 
Fairmead made a payment of £1,442.36 to Mrs R on 31 January 2020. This included 
£1,254.36 towards the cost of replacing wallpaper. The payment also covered the cost of a 
replacement thermostat, a replacement draft excluder and what would have been the cost of 
cleaning three mirrors that had been disposed of. 
When Fairmead responded to this services request for information, it said several 
complaints made to it by Mrs R were brought to this service out of time, so it did not consent 
to this service looking at those complaints.
 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint in part. She agreed that complaints addressed by 
Fairmead between May and July 2018 hadnt been brought to this service by Mrs R in time. 
Our investigator concluded that:
Fairmead should pay to replace or provide a cash settlement for Mrs Rs damaged 
flooring, namely the carpet and laminate flooring in the bedrooms, hall, stairs and 
landing. 
Fairmead should cover the cost of two of the three wallpaper selections, in line with 
the online links provided by Mrs R. But it didnt need to make any further award for 
the last wallpaper selection.
Fairmead didnt need to offer any more DA or compensation.   
Fairmead responded and agreed to consider the cost of replacing the damaged flooring, 
subject to receiving estimates from Mrs R. It also said it would cover the full cost of two of 
the three wallpaper selections. Fairmead provided further information about five outstanding 
snagging issues at the property and said it was waiting for Mrs R to provide a quote in 
relation to four of these. It said the fifth item was a lamp that was damaged in storage, but it 
hadnt received further information about this to see if a settlement could be agreed.
Mrs R agreed with what our investigator said in relation to the flooring and wallpaper. 
However, she said it took months for AA to be offered and she decided to remain where she 
was as she was assured her home would be ready to move back into within a few weeks. 
Mrs R also said DA should be paid until January 2020, as her house was uninhabitable until 
it was deep cleaned. Mrs R also thought further compensation should be paid as her health 
has suffered and she and her family lived in cramped conditions for two years. 
Because Mrs R didnt agree with what our investigator said, this came to me for decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 August 2021 and said I intended to uphold Mr H and 
Mrs Rs complaint in part. I said I intended to ask Fairmead to do the following: 
Pay wallpaper costs for the three rooms at £133, £119.50 and £30 per roll. Fairmead 
had already made a payment towards wallpaper costs to Mrs R, so it needed to 
calculate and pay the balance.
Pay a cash settlement for flooring based on quotes to be provided by Mrs R.  Pay a cash settlement amount in relation to snagging issues that takes into account 
the cost of the work and the inconvenience Mr H and Mrs R experienced in having to 
carry this out themselves. 
Both parties were given the opportunity to respond, but neither did. So I am now ready to 
issue a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint in part. 
Mrs Rs claim has been accepted by Fairmead and, at this stage, the majority of the repairs 
needed on her home have been carried out. So Mrs Rs complaint is about delays in the 
claims handling process and about issues that have arisen during and after the majority of 
the building work was completed on her home. 
There are some complaint points I cant look at in relation to this complaint. Our service can 
consider a wide variety of complaints about financial services, but we arent free to look into 
every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out what complaints we can consider 
are the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) in the FCA handbook.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2) says we cannot consider a complaint, unless the business 
consents, if it was referred to us:
more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final 
response, redress determination or summary resolution communication;
unless: 
in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or 
DISP 2.8.6 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
On 17 May and 23 July 2018, Fairmead issued final response letters to Mrs R, following 
complaints made by Mrs R about the management of her claim and the service Fairmead 
provided. Fairmead has objected to this service looking at any complaint points raised in 
these final response letters, as it says the complaint points dealt with in these letters were 
brought to this service outside of the six months allowed. Mrs R raised her complaint with 
this service on 20 June 2019. 
Having looked into this, Im satisfied that Mrs R would have needed to have brought the 
complaint points raised in these two letters to this service sooner if she had wanted us to 
look into most of the complaint points raised. However, Im satisfied this service can look at 
one of the complaint points dealt with in the July 2018 final response letter. 
In that letter, Fairmead mentioned that Mrs R said she was suffering from a lung infection 
and that there was mould on the walls of her property. Mrs R also complained about the 
inconvenience shed experienced and the impact this had on her health and the health of her 
son. Fairmead said it was willing to review this complaint point upon receipt of further 
information from Mrs Rs GP. And it said this would be separate from the compensation 
award it had offered thus far in respect of Mrs Rs complaint. So Im satisfied that the complaint point raised by Mrs R about the impact delays with the 
handling of her claim were having on her health were unresolved, and that Fairmead had left 
it open to being dealt with in the future, subject to supporting documentation being received. 
As Fairmead hasnt given this service consent to look at the complaints referred out of time, 
the only way I could look at other issues raised in these earlier final response letters is if I 
thought the delay in bringing them to this service was the result of exceptional 
circumstances. But Mrs R hasnt said that exceptional circumstances applied here. 
Ill now look at each of the complaint points raised by Mrs R. 
Wallpaper
My understanding is that wallpaper in three rooms was damaged by the escape of water and 
Fairmead originally offered to settle this at a cost of £30 per roll. But Mrs R said the 
wallpaper cost significantly more, although she didnt have receipts dating from when she 
purchased the wallpaper to evidence this. So Mrs R checked the internet and found a 
website offering two of the three wallpaper selections and submitted this to Fairmead as 
evidence of the cost. This wasnt accepted by Fairmead until after our investigator issued her 
assessment. At that stage, Fairmead agreed to fully cover the cost of two of the three 
wallpaper selections in line with the links provided by Mrs R. I understand the cost was £133 
and £119.50 per roll. And Fairmead had earlier decided to cover the cost of wallpaper for the 
third room at £30 per roll. 
I think a fair outcome here is for Fairmead to pay wallpaper costs for the three rooms at 
£133, £119.50 and £30 per roll. Fairmead has already made a payment towards wallpaper 
costs to Mrs R, so it should calculate and pay the balance. 
Flooring
When Mrs R brought her complaint to this service her concern about the carpets and 
laminate flooring was that they werent properly protected by contractors when they were 
working on her home and so damage had been caused. Mrs R wanted Fairmead to replace 
all damaged flooring, but Fairmead initially agreed to only clean the flooring. After the carpet 
was cleaned, Mrs R complained that it was a different colour and she also said sections of 
the laminate flooring were chipped. Our investigator said damage caused to the carpet in the 
bedrooms, hall, stairs and landing, as well as damage to the laminate flooring, should be 
rectified and Fairmead should provide a cash settlement to the value it would cost Mrs R to 
replace. 
Fairmead agreed to consider the cost to replace the flooring, as outlined by our investigator. 
And it said it could arrange for the cost to be validated by the loss adjuster or Mrs R can 
submit estimates. 
When I issued my provisional decision, I suggested quotes could be submitted by Mrs R to 
Fairmead to see if these could be validated and agreed so that this matter was fully resolved 
prior to my final decision being issued. But I havent heard from either Mrs R or Fairmead 
and so dont know what stage both parties are at in terms of agreeing a suitable cash 
settlement. So, I think a reasonable outcome here is for Mrs R to provide Fairmead with 
quotes for comparable replacement carpets in the bedrooms, hall, stairs and landing and for 
comparable replacement laminate flooring. And these quotes should include necessary 
extras for the fitting of the flooring. If both parties are unable to agree a cash settlement 
amount, then Mrs R should be allowed to submit a new complaint about this to Fairmead in 
the usual way, and refer this to our service if she is unhappy with the outcome. Disturbance Allowance
Fairmead has paid DA to Mrs R from 6 April 2018 (the day she moved out of her home and 
into the home of a relative) until 14 June 2019 (after the carpets in Mrs Rs home were 
cleaned). The DA paid is £35 per day  made up of £10 for each adult and £5 for each child. 
Mrs R said she remained at the home of a relative until her home was deep cleaned in 
January 2020, as it was too dirty to live in. So she has asked for DA to be paid until 
January 2020, when she and her family moved home.
For its part, Fairmead said it would not pay any further DA as Mrs Rs home was not 
uninhabitable from June 2019. It said it looked at photographs Mrs R had submitted that 
showed tools and other items on the floor, but said some of these appeared to be Mrs Rs 
belongings, which would need to be put in appropriate places and tools could be moved to 
one side.
In her response to what our investigator said, Mrs R talked about the difficulties that arose 
with Fairmead providing AA. So I will look at her concerns about AA first. But I can see that 
Fairmead made several offers of AA to Mrs R. It might well be the case that Mrs R felt the 
accommodation offered was unsuitable, but I can see that Fairmead also gave Mrs R the 
option of contacting it if she wanted to reconsider moving to AA. So this option wasnt closed 
to her and she opted to remain living with a relative. In general, consumers would either be 
entitled to AA or DA, but not both. So given that Mrs R declined the accommodation offered 
and then didnt pursue this, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to pay DA to cover 
additional expenses incurred while Mrs R lived with her relative. And Im satisfied the amount 
of DA paid per day is fair. 
I then looked at whether Fairmead acted fairly when it stopped paying DA in June 2019. The 
issue here is whether Mrs Rs home was habitable or not at that point. Broadly speaking, a 
property will be considered habitable when there is access to kitchen and bathroom facilities 
and where it is safe for individuals to live there.
By June 2019, the majority of repair work had been carried out and only snagging issues 
remained. And the carpets, which were made dirty by the contractors, had been cleaned. At 
that stage, given that the work was largely completed, Mrs R also had access to all areas of 
the house. Ive looked at the photographs Mrs R took showing, for example, tools and other 
items on the floor. But I dont agree that the house being left in the condition shown in the 
photographs made it uninhabitable. Small items on the floor could have been moved out of 
the way and in no way would have prevented Mrs R and her family from safely living in the 
home and having full access to facilities.  
I know that Mrs R was also in dispute with Fairmead about its refusal to replace the carpet 
and laminate. And other issues, such as the cost of the wallpaper, were also not resolved. 
But the house would not be considered uninhabitable just because there was outstanding 
work that would certainly need to be completed in the future  the wallpaper  or because 
Mrs R felt strongly that the flooring should be replaced. So Im not asking Fairmead to pay 
DA beyond 14 June 2019. 
Contents
I believe the contents of Mrs Rs home that were originally in storage have now been 
cleaned and returned to her. 
Fairmead agreed to cover the cost of cleaning three mirrors that were attached to the walls 
affected by the escape of water and which eventually became mouldy. Its not clear how, but the mirrors were disposed of and Mrs R asked Fairmead to pay the full cost of replacing 
them. Mrs R doesnt have contents cover with Fairmead and replacing the mirrors would 
usually fall under contents cover. So I think its enough that Fairmead has already covered 
the cost of the clean. 
Compensation
Fairmead has already awarded Mrs R a total of £700 compensation for the delays and poor 
service provided during the handling of her claim. 
One of the issues that hadnt been considered by Fairmead prior to Mrs Rs complaint being 
brought to this service was the impact Mrs R said this matter has had on her health. 
Fairmead had always said it would look at this, but needed evidence from Mrs Rs GP.  
Mrs R provided a letter from her GP dated from March 2020. This outlined how she began to 
wheeze at around the time that, unbeknown to her, mould had grown on the damp walls next 
to her bed after the escape of water. Her GP said she had no history of respiratory issues 
and that Mrs R has now been diagnosed with asthma. So Ive looked at whether delays in 
handling this complaint might have impacted Mrs Rs health. 
Fairmead are not responsible for the escape of water and the resultant damage. And I 
wouldnt hold it responsible for any mould developing and any health issues that might be 
connected to mould, unless I thought the mould developed as a result of unnecessary delays 
on the part of Fairmead in starting to dry the property out. And Im satisfied Fairmead didnt 
cause any significant delays in relation to installing dryers in Mrs Rs home. Ill explain why.
Its my understanding that drying equipment was installed in Mrs Rs home around seven 
weeks after the escape of water. And its certainly the case that in some circumstances Id 
consider that dryers should be installed more quickly. But I can see that the escape of water 
wasnt reported to Fairmead until nine days after it happened. And it took three weeks for 
Mrs R to decide to use Fairmeads contractors. Mrs R can obviously take as much time as 
she needs to make decisions about the claim, but it wouldnt be fair to hold Fairmead 
responsible for delays that happened while those decisions were being made. 
Fairmead has acknowledged that there was an unnecessary delay of six days on its part, 
when it didnt let the contractors know to carry out the drying. But these delays are not 
significant enough that Fairmead could fairly be held responsible for the mould that 
developed after the escape of water and unfortunately appears to have affected Mrs Rs 
health. So while I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs R and the health problems she is 
now experiencing, I am not asking Fairmead to take any further action in this respect. 
Theres no doubt that the escape of water, the claim and having to move from their home 
must have been a very stressful experience for Mr H and Mrs R. I know that our investigator 
has already mentioned this, but I want to reiterate that when an event like an escape of 
water happens, its always going to be the case that there will be some degree of both 
distress and inconvenience. But Fairmead is only responsible for compensating for 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Having looked at all of the evidence provided by both 
parties, Im satisfied that the compensation already awarded is fair and Im not asking 
Fairmead to pay more. 
Snagging issues 
Fairmead has already provided Mrs R with a cash settlement for the damaged thermostat 
and draft excluder. When Fairmead responded to our investigators assessment, it provided further information 
about five outstanding snagging issues at the property and said it had already spoken to 
Mrs R about four of these issues some months before and was waiting for Mrs R to provide 
a quote. It said the fifth item was a lamp that was damaged in storage, but it hadnt received 
further information about this to see if a settlement could be agreed. 
Mrs R told this service that Fairmead said it would pay for the outstanding works if she found 
her own contractor. But Mrs R said it wasnt possible for her to do this, given the Covid 
situation. And so she and Mr S had to deal with most of the snagging issues, such as 
painting, fixing damaged sockets, beading etc. themselves. 
I dont think it would be fair for Mrs R to be out of pocket because she wasnt in a position to 
have a contractor carry out the work for her. So I think a fair outcome here is for Mrs R to 
provide information to Fairmead about exactly what work she carried out to deal with the 
snagging issues, including providing information about the damaged lamp and dealing with 
the rubbish that she said was left in her garden, and Fairmead should look to provide Mrs R 
with a fair cash settlement that takes into account the cost of the work and the 
inconvenience Mr H and Mrs R experienced in having to carry this out themselves. 
If both parties are unable to agree a cash settlement amount, then Mrs R should be allowed 
to submit a new complaint about that to Fairmead in the usual way, and refer this to our 
service if she is unhappy with the outcome.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am partially upholding this complaint and require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to do the following: 
Pay wallpaper costs for the three rooms at £133, £119.50 and £30 per roll. Fairmead 
has already made a payment towards wallpaper costs to Mr H and Mrs R, so it 
should calculate and pay the balance.
Once Mr H and Mrs R have provided quotes, it should consider these to reach and 
then pay a cash settlement to them for the replacement of carpet and laminate 
flooring, as outlined above.
Once Mr H and Mrs R have provided information about the snagging work they 
carried out as outlined above, it should consider this to reach and then pay a cash 
settlement amount in relation to this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman