DRN-3967744
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mrs F and Mr M applied for through 
Wealthwise Financial Services Ltd (WFS). The mortgage application was unsuccessful but in 
the meantime Mrs F had sold her existing property and repaid the mortgage she had on it in 
her sole name, incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). If the new application had 
succeeded, that ERC would have been refunded. 
That didnt happen because Mrs F and Mr M ended up taking the new mortgage from a 
different lender, using a different broker firm. The essence of the complaint is that Mrs F and 
Mr M believe WFS should have warned them the new mortgage application might not 
succeed and that they should wait until an offer had been received before committing to the 
sale.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs F and Mr M and WFS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs F and Mr M being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, Im required to reach my decision on 
the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases. In doing that, I have to 
consider whether and to what extent Mrs F and Mr M would have made different decisions 
based on circumstances as they were at the time. I can give make no allowance for 
hindsight.
If Im to order WFS to pay Mrs F and Mr M the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be 
satisfied that WFS made specific errors or omissions in the handling of the application, and 
that those errors or omissions were the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or 
non-financial, to Mrs F and Mr M. 
Arranging a mortgage isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. There may be 
anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but occasionally things take 
longer than expected. Also, queries and issues might arise that couldnt have been predicted 
at the outset, and which either delay the application or take it in an unexpected direction. For 
the most part, I think the latter is what happened here.
This was a porting application; that is, one where the interest rate product from an existing 
mortgage is transferred to the new mortgage. Where that happens, the lender will typically 
waive (or refund if the new mortgage starts after the existing one has been repaid) any ERC 
that would be due on redemption. Mrs F and Mr Ms biggest grievance is that in their view 
WFS should have warned them not to complete on their sale until they had the certainty of a 
new mortgage offer from Mrs Fs existing lender. But they also maintain WFS repeatedly 
assured them the lender, a business Ill call S, was certain to agree to the new mortgage. Ill 
deal with the latter first. 
This wasnt a straightforward mortgage for WFS to arrange; the application to port involved a 
significant about of extra borrowing and the addition of Mr M as joint borrower. Added to that, 
Mrs Fs business had been impacted by the COVID pandemic, requiring support in the form 
of a government loan. Whether and how that might affect her capacity to borrow meant the 
porting application was far from being a formality, and its likely WFS will have known this. 
Given that wider context, Im not persuaded that WFS would have made the mistake of 
implying the porting application was assured of being accepted.
Turning to the decision to complete the sale before an offer had been issued, my starting 
point is that Mrs F and Mr M knew, or should reasonably have known, that an ERC would be 
payable on redemption of the existing mortgage. Mrs Fs existing mortgage offer set out the 
terms in which an ERC would be payable. It also made clear that in order for the ERC to be 
waived or refunded, any porting application would be subject to meeting Ss lending criteria 
at the time of applying. 
Our investigator recommended WFS pay Mrs F and Mr M £750 compensation. This was for 
what he perceived as a lack of clarity on the brokers part about the possible risk of paying 
the ERC before knowing it could be refunded. After a great deal of consideration, Ive come 
to the same conclusion. In my view, WFS didnt do enough to meet Mrs F and Mr Ms 
information needs on the risk they were taking. 
In the end, I dont think it changed the eventual outcome. In my view, it was always more 
likely than not that Mrs F and Mr M would have proceeded with the sale by 30 June 2021 as 
planned (and thus incurred the ERC), notwithstanding the other options theyve now told us 
would have been available to them. Given this, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to order WFS to reimburse them for the ERC they paid to S. But I can 
understand why they felt the sense of grievance theyve expressed. 
That brings me to compensation for time, trouble and upset. Even in the best-ordered 
situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a complex transaction as a 
non-simultaneous house sale and purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience 
is to be expected. Taking into consideration everything that both parties have said and 
provided, and mindful of our general approach, the £750 proposed by the investigator for 
failing to meet Mrs F and Mr Ms information needs is at the upper end of the scale, but fair 
overall.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mrs F and Mr M. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house transaction. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
direct Wealthwise Financial Services Ltd to pay Mrs F and Mr M £750 for distress and 
inconvenience. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman