The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has registered information with 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) about debts to Lloyds that were administered under a 
debt administration scheme (DAS).
What happened
Mr S had three accounts with Lloyds - a current account and two credit card accounts. In 
October 2013 these accounts fell to be administered, along with a number of debts owed to 
other creditors, under a DAS.
A DAS is a debt management arrangement available under Scottish law intended to allow a 
debtor time to pay his debts without suffering a default and enforcement action from his 
creditors, or the consequences of becoming bankrupt.
In October 2018, the administrator of Mr Ss DAS confirmed that Mr S had satisfied the 
terms of the DAS. This meant that any sums still owing to creditors were discharged. Mr S 
still owed money under each of the three accounts. So Lloyds recorded these as settled with 
the CRAs.
Mr S complained to Lloyds about how this was reported. He said the accounts should be 
shown as being defaulted when the DAS began in October 2013. This would mean that after 
six years, in October 2019, they would disappear from his credit file. As it was, the accounts 
would remain showing as settled for six years from October 2018.
In October 2018 Lloyds agreed that all three accounts would be defaulted, back dated to 
2013. It completed the change for the two credit card accounts but not for the current 
account. Initially Lloyds advised this was just a matter of timing and the last account would 
be updated in due course.
Mr S called Lloyds on a regular basis asking for updates and was told it was still being 
worked on; Lloyds said it was a technical issue. However, in June 2019 Lloyds told Mr S that 
it was satisfied that it had correctly reported what had happened in relation to the current 
account to the CRAs, and wouldnt amend this.
It paid him compensation of £250, in addition to £100 it had paid him earlier, for the upset 
and frustration it had caused him. Mr S wasnt satisfied with this response and complained to 
us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds had 
a duty to report correct and accurate information about its customers credit accounts to 
DRN-1135060CRAs. From the information provided to him, it appeared Lloyds was recording correct 
information for Mr S so it had no duty to amend what it had told the CRAs.
He appreciated Lloyds had been able to amend its records for the credit card accounts Mr S 
held. But this didn't mean it had done anything wrong in being unable to change the record 
for Mr S's current account. The previous amendments were only successful because of a 
system error.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that following similar complaints he had made to this 
service about the way other debts covered by the DAS had been reported to CRAs, other 
lenders had agreed to treat their corresponding debts as defaulted in October 2013.
The investigator asked Lloyds to confirm whether or not it had ever recorded the current 
account as being in default. It said the DAS scheme was designed as a way for debtors to 
avoid defaults. It had never treated the current account as defaulted, and this was correct.
Its staff had agreed to Mr Ss request to treat the credit card accounts as defaulted in 2013. 
But this was incorrect, and only happened because of a system error. When its staff 
attempted to treat the current account in the same way, the system correctly wouldnt allow 
this to happen.
Lloyds said it wasnt involved in Mr Ss decision to use a DAS in relation to his debts. If he 
now regretted this decision, Mr S would have to take this up with his insolvency practitioner.
The investigator told Mr S that he remained of the view that Lloyds had recorded what had 
happened correctly. Mr S said:
his credit file was showing a late payment marker for every month during the DAS.
He thought this was wrong if the payments under the DAS were made correctly and
on time; and
at the time of going into the DAS he was running an unplanned overdraft on his
current account. He thought this meant the account could have been placed into
default.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We consider every complaint we receive on its own individual circumstances. So the fact 
that other lenders have agreed a different treatment in relation to the DAS and their debts is 
not something Im taking into account in this complaint.
In considering how Lloyds should have treated the current account debt under the DAS, I 
have looked at the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies published by the Information Commissioners Office in January 
2014.
The DAS scheme isnt specifically mentioned in the Principles. But they do talk about a debt 
management programme (DMP) where a third party adviser negotiates a repayment 
schedule for all or a number of a consumers credit agreements.They say that if a DMP is accepted by the lender, the record filed at the CRAs must reflect 
that the consumer is on a DMP. For such accounts arrears may continue to be calculated in 
accordance with the contracted terms, but the account marked as under a DMP.
In relation to registering a default, the Principles say that if an arrangement is agreed, a 
default would not normally be registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken. 
This is distinguished from where an account is included in a bankruptcy, court judgement, 
individual voluntary arrangement or similar.
The Principles say that where the lender receives less than the amount owed, the account is 
to be marked as partially settled. If the account was not in default, the record would remain 
on the consumers credit file for 6 years from the date of closure.
In the light of the Principles, I cant say that Lloyds should have registered a default in 
respect of the current account when the DAS was arranged, or should now treat the account 
as defaulted when reporting to the CRAs. So I dont propose asking Lloyds to do anything 
more.
I also think the compensation Lloyds has paid Mr S for the time it took to reach its decision, 
after initially saying it would treat the current account as defaulted, is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Its not clear why CRAs are showing a late payment marker for every month of the DAS. This 
may be because of the way Lloyds has reported information to the CRAs or the way the 
CRAs have chosen to present the information.
However, Mr S raised this issue after he brought this complaint, and Lloyds hasnt been 
given an opportunity to comment on it. If after it has done so Mr S is still unhappy, he can 
bring a separate complaint about this aspect to us. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman