DRN-2755443
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled chargeback 
requests relating to two purchases she made.
What happened
Miss W says she purchased a pair of boots online for £350 and never received them. She 
made a chargeback request to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), but didnt get her 
money back.
She also says she paid another company £582 but returned the relevant goods to them 
because she didnt want them in the end. That company didnt provide a refund. They said 
they never received the goods back. Miss W made another chargeback request to NatWest 
but again didnt get her money back.
Miss W complained to NatWest. In essence, she wants them to pay her the £932 she says 
she should have got back. And to compensate her for her trouble and upset.
NatWest said Miss Ws chargeback requests were made out of time according to the 
relevant chargeback scheme. Theyve compensated her for alleged poor service they 
provided and for phone calls she says she made to them. But they dont intend to pay her 
the £932 she says shes lost.
Miss W wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. 
Miss W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to Miss W, the two transactions in question took place in October and December 
2019. Thats confirmed to a great extent by her bank statements, which show when the 
payments were made. 
There is some confusion with one of those payments because its for a slightly smaller 
amount than Miss W is claiming, but it appears to be the correct transaction given the date 
and the company involved.
The relevant chargeback scheme allows 120 days for a chargeback request to be lodged. 
That 120 days starts from the day of the transaction or from the point at which the purchaser 
became aware that they werent going to get the goods or service purchased.
Miss W says she contacted NatWest within 120 days on both occasions and was told shed 
definitely be entitled to get her money back.
The first evidence of any chargeback request being made to NatWest is in August 2020 at 
the earliest. Thats a considerable time after 120 days had passed from the transactions in 
question. 
And, unless there is something very unusual to explain why Miss W didnt realise she hadnt 
got the goods or services shed purchased, its some considerable time after she became 
aware she hadnt got those goods or services (or had returned them).
NatWest asked Miss W for further information after she made her requests to them. They 
were trying to establish the circumstances, to make a judgement about whether a 
chargeback might still be possible and to find out whether  and when  Miss W had 
contacted them earlier to raise her requests (and been told she would definitely get her 
money back).
Miss W didnt provide any further information to help with these enquiries. Nor could she 
recall the dates and times of the calls she allegedly made to NatWest. Nor did she suggest 
that she wasnt aware she wasnt going to receive the goods or services until a considerable 
time after shed paid the money out.
Its perhaps surprising that Miss W didnt fully understand the way chargeback schemes 
work and/or realise the importance of the timing of those requests. It appears she made 
chargeback requests and/or enquired about making them and/or disputed payment 
transactions on her account on more than 20 occasions between late 2019 and late 2020.
In that context, she might be expected to have realised that she might be asked to provide 
some evidence of the calls she said she made to NatWest  or at least to be able to say 
when they were made.
I can see NatWest asked for copies of Miss Ws itemised phone bills, I assume at least in 
part so they might be able to locate the time and date of calls made to them. Miss W hasnt 
provided that information.
I have to decide whether NatWest have acted fairly and reasonably in handling Miss Ws 
requests. 
Their own records suggest Miss W made these chargeback requests significantly beyond 
the time limit allowed by the relevant chargeback scheme. I should stress here that NatWest 
arent responsible for the schemes rules or time limits.
NatWest have asked Miss W for any information or evidence to suggest her requests were 
made earlier. And theyve suggested information / documentation which should be readily 
available to Miss W and which might help them to trace any contact between her and them.
In the absence of any such information or evidence, I cant say its unfair or unreasonable for 
them to decline to pay for the goods Miss W says she didnt receive or returned. 
Im sure NatWest would re-consider their position if and when Miss W could provide any 
further evidence of information which might suggest that her chargeback requests were 
made within the relevant time limits. But I cant reasonably suggest theyve done anything 
wrong in the way theyve handled Miss Ws requests so far.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman