DRN-3160885
The complaint
Mr F complains that Allianz plc mishandled his claim on a commercial vehicle insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Allianz, I include its engineer, claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold 
Allianz responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
 The subject matter of this complaint is a van first registered in 2010. 
For the year from August 2020, Mr F had the van insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Allianz. He used it in his business of takeaway food.
Unfortunately, in November 2020, a third party caused an accident in which the van suffered 
frontal damage. Allianz treated the van as a total loss and paid Mr Fs claim. The van 
became the property of Allianz.
After contact from DVLA, Mr F complained that Allianz had incorrectly told him that he 
couldnt keep the damaged van by buying it back from Allianz.
By a final response dated early March 2021, Allianz apologised that its engineer had given 
Mr F incorrect information.
Unhappy with that response, Mr F brought his complaint to us in July 2021.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that Allianz had acted fairly when dealing with Mr Fs complaint. He recommended that 
Allianz should compensate Mr F £150.00 for the distress, inconvenience and loss of 
expectation.
Allianz agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Mr F disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, 
that:
He has enclosed a letter from a garage containing details of their estimate for repair 
of his van.
If Allianz had given him the correct information, then he would now have his own van 
back and repaired at little or no overall cost to him, and he would not have been in 
the position of having to purchase any replacement vehicle. Therefore, every £1 
spent on the replacement vehicle was unnecessary and should be reimbursed to 
him. 
Allianz's consistent and repeated misinformation forced him to accept a settlement of 
£3,100.00. He was unable to source any suitable replacement for less than 
£11,000.00, causing him unnecessary expense of £7,900.00.
It appears that Allianz can give him wrong information with no penalty.
This was a very major and expensive upheaval to his business and in fact caused 
him severe stress and anxiety and cost him a lot of money, all of which should have 
been avoided.
£150.00 does not even begin to compensate him for the stress and inconvenience he 
endured in attempting to obtain a replacement van suitable for transporting food 
items at a particularly difficult period of the pandemic when second-hand vans were 
at a premium. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service considers whether a regulated financial firm has done 
something wrong. If so, we consider the impact of that on the complainant. And we consider 
whether to direct the firm to pay compensation or to take other steps to put things right. We 
do not assess compensation at a level intended to deter or punish wrongdoing.
I accept Mr Fs evidence that he arranged recovery of his damaged van by a garage that 
gave him an estimate of about £1,000.00 to get it back on the road. 
But Allianz estimated about £3,500.00 for a full repair of the accident damage. It noted that 
the van had a recorded mileage of nearly 140,000. It recorded the van as a write-off of 
Category S (structural damage).
From what Mr F and Allianz have each said, I find that Allianz was responsible for incorrect 
information to Mr F about keeping his damaged van.
However, Allianz offered a pre-accident valuation of £3,200.00. Our investigator checked the 
retail price in the trade guides. And Im satisfied that Allianzs valuation didnt treat Mr F 
unfairly.
In other words, what Mr F had before the accident was a van worth about £3,200.00 and 
Allianz paid him that amount (less the excess of £450.00). And he later recovered the 
excess after the third partys insurer settled the claim from Allianz. So I dont consider that 
Mr F suffered a financial loss.
I say that notwithstanding that he ended up searching for a new van at a difficult time in a 
difficult market and he ended up paying for a new van which wasnt what he really wanted. 
As he got the new van he paid for, I dont consider that this represents a financial loss. 
Rather I consider that  by incorrect information for which Ive held it responsible  Allianz 
caused Mr F a loss of opportunity to buy the damaged van for its salvage value of about 
£700.00 and to pay to get it repaired. The incorrect information also caused Mr F to have some difficult phone calls and to become 
annoyed when he found out that he shouldve had the opportunity to keep his old van  
instead of someone else having the benefit of it.
Putting things right
Overall I conclude that £150.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for loss of opportunity 
and for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Allianz plc to pay Mr F £150.00 for loss of opportunity and for distress and 
inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman