DRN-1125719
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened
Mr and Mrs O jointly took out a mortgage with BOS in 1998. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy with the benefit split 50/50 between them. The policy wouldve 
covered repayments on their mortgage if they couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if 
they lost their jobs for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork BOS used at the time that they had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought it wouldve provided a suitable benefit.
Mr and Mrs O disagree. They say they didnt know they had a choice and were rushed into 
signing paperwork without adequate explanations being given. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
BOS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs O that they had a choice in taking out the policy. Mr 
and Mrs O say this wasnt done but havent provided much detail about what was said to 
make them think this. Given the length of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs O 
to have a detailed recollection of what was discussed. So Ive relied more on what the 
documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Separate application forms were completed for Mr and Mrs Os MPPI and mortgage and 
BOS have given us a copy of both. 
I can see on the mortgage application form that under the section that deals with MPPI that 
BOS recommends that you consider our Mortgage Payments Insurance Scheme. And I 
can see right below this Mr and Mrs O have both signed under the words Yes, I would like 
to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. They have then gone on to sign and 
date the mortgage application form again at the end. I think from the way MPPI was 
presented here it makes it clear it was optional.  If they didnt want MPPI they couldve left 
this section blank. Following the completion of the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs O then went on to 
complete an entirely separate application form for MPPI. I accept there is a lot of information 
on the application form and that Mr and Mrs O may have felt rushed and not read it in its 
entirety. But I have seen nothing to suggest that BOS wouldnt have given them more time to 
read through the information should they have felt they needed it. And all the information 
contained in it related solely to MPPI so I think its likely they wouldve understood this wasnt 
part of or a condition of their mortgage. 
So I think BOS did make it clear that Mr and Mrs O had a choice in taking out the policy 
because they were given a choice on the mortgage application form and I think they signed 
the completed MPPI application form because they wanted the cover. 
This was an advised sale. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs O could make an 
informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Os needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for them for the following reasons:
 
They were both eligible for cover and it doesnt look like they would have been 
caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs O say they were entitled to a good level of sick 
pay and had other insurance policies that would assist them in making their 
repayments if they couldnt work. But the other insurance policies covered different 
things and a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay 
and for potentially longer covering Mr and Mrs Os mortgage payments for up to 12 
months if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness or if they lost their 
jobs.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs O in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs O information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I can see the costs were clear from the quote but I dont know if BOS gave all the information 
as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr 
and Mrs O have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken 
out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information at the time of sale.Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs O.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman