DRN-4394991
The complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estates of Mrs W and Mr W, via a claims 
management company, which is acting for the representative now responsible for dealing 
with matters relating to Mr and Mrs Ws estates. 
The complaint concerns the suitability of investment advice provided to Mr W by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc in 2006. Acting on HSBCs recommendation, he invested £34,000 in the 
Guaranteed Capital Account (GCA) and £4,000 into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
with funds invested in the HSBC Growth Fund of Funds.
The CMC presented the complaint as follows, saying (in brief summary) that HSBCs advice 
to Mr W was unsuitable because:
given Mr Ws health and generally unstable circumstances, HSBC should have 
advised him to protect his underlying capital from any options that could result in a 
nil-return and the risk of his savings being significantly eroded by inflation
Mr W was categorised as an investor willing to take a Medium Risk with his 
investment although there appears to be no basis for this and it was an inappropriate 
categorisation bearing in mind Mr Ws priority for capital protection 
Mr W was a first time investor and reliant on HSBCs advisors expertise
the recommendation to invest over one third of his free assets was excessive 
the terminology of the GCA created an illusion of security for inexperienced investors 
and an appropriate recommendation would have been a fixed rate bond which would 
have protected Mr Ws capital and provided a guaranteed rate of interest and the 
security that he needed at the time 
the HSBC Growth Fund of Funds further exposed Mr Ws assets to equities when he 
had no prior experience of investing.
What happened
I understand that the GCA matured in January 2013 and the ISA was surrendered in March 
2010. 
In response to this complaint, HSBC didnt think the advice it gave was unsuitable. It mainly 
said the advisor had completed a fact finding document and there had been a full 
discussion with Mr W to establish his attitude to investment risk and his investment aims. 
HSBC said the products were explained to Mr W, including the risks, and that hed had time 
in between meetings with the advisor to reflect on the advice provided before deciding to 
go ahead. So HSBC didnt uphold this complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and after careful consideration, 
ultimately thought that HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. She said that Mr Ws financial 
situation at the time, his investment objectives of income and capital growth and the 
information shed seen showing that HSBC had classified Mr W as willing to take a medium 
risk with his investments meant she couldnt say the investment advice had been 
unsuitable.
In response, the CMC disagreed, saying that:
the investigator had reached her final view only after making allowance for the fact 
that Mr W had kept back around £12,000 in cash when HSBC had originally 
suggested investing this. But Mr W had gone on to invest this money in ISAs shortly 
after the start of the next tax year. The CMC argued that Mr W had essentially 
followed the advice of the HSBC advisor (which the investigator had initially thought 
might not be suitable because he wouldve invested too much of his money). The 
CMC said this meant Mr W did not in reality have the extra cash reserve that the 
investigator had taken into account when reaching her decision not to uphold the 
complaint. 
In relation to the GCA, Mr W wasnt in a position to take a gamble with this portion of 
his capital and not in a position to gamble with the risk-free interest that it could have 
generated in a savings account or fixed rate bond. The CMC put things this way: 
Given our clients circumstances it was essential that they were made aware of 
risks involved in a product of this type particularly the extraordinary circumstances 
that would have been required for the return to be greater than a risk-free product.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint seems to be that the advice to invest in the GCA and HSBC 
Growth Fund of Funds was unsuitable because it risked too much of Mr Ws capital and 
exposed him to too much investment risk given his personal and financial situation and the 
fact he was a first-time investor. 
The fact find shows that Mr W had received a lump sum of £97,000 from an inheritance  the 
bulk of the money had been paid into a savings account and the balance at the time was just 
under £91,000. 
Mr W was already receiving his state pension (£101 weekly) along with other pension 
income (a further £100 per week) and he was also still working on a self-employed basis and 
earning around £140 each week  although he planned to stop work within the next year. He 
lived in secure rented accommodation with his wife, who also had some paid work and she 
brought in a small income to contribute towards the household costs. Mr and Mrs W had no 
dependents. Mr W was overdrawn by around £200 at the bank and he had around £6,500 
worth of outstanding debt, including credit cards and an outstanding personal loan. Mr W 
also had £1,200 in a cash ISA. 
The capital lump sum Mr W inherited enabled him to clear his outstanding liabilities, 
which is what the advisor recommended. Mr W used £6,508 to repay debt, retained 
£8,000 in cash for emergencies, he set aside £20,000 for a new car, £1,000 for holidays 
and gifted £5,185 to his wife. This left him with £50,091 to invest. 
HSBC had recommended he invest this in the following way:
 £34,000 in the GCA to hold for 6 years
 £4,000 invested in a stocks and shares ISA - HSBC Growth Fund of Funds
 £12,091 invested in HSBC Growth Fund of Funds Feeder ISA, to take advantage of 
the tax benefits ISAs offer by switching funds automatically each tax year  Mr W was also advised to fund a cash ISA from some of the £8,000 he kept as 
emergency funds.  
In the event, Mr W chose to retain more of his money in cash savings at the time  he 
kept the £12,091 as part of his emergency funds, giving him a total of £21,291 available 
in cash to cover any unexpected spending needs or unplanned costs arising. 
Mr W had been able to eliminate all his debt and his day to day living costs were 
otherwise modest and easily affordable out of income. He had a cash reserve that 
wouldve likely been more than ample when he had no reason to think the money was 
needed for anything in particular and hed made provision already for planned spending. 
I find Mr W had capacity to absorb some investment loss if necessary, he was in a strong 
enough financial position to be able to invest and I dont feel he was advised to invest too 
much of his capital. 
The fact find completed by the advisor shows that Mr Ws investment aims were capital 
growth and income. Given these investment aims, I think Mr W needed to invest in a risk-
based investment. Ive thought carefully about whether Mr W would have been comfortable 
with the level of risk he took when he invested in the way he did. And, looking at his needs 
and circumstances in 2006, I cant conclude that he was advised to invest with too much 
risk. Ill explain why. 
From the information HSBC has provided, I think it's fair to say that HSBC did take steps to 
identify and verify Mr Ws risk approach. I've been provided with information about the 
questions I think its likely he wouldve been asked and seen how he responded. HSBC said 
this indicated that it classified Mr W as an investor who would be comfortable taking a 
Medium Risk, which it explained as follows:
You are defined as someone who is a balanced investor, or in other words someone who is 
willing to accept a reasonable amount of risk with their money, holding a balanced portfolio 
of equities, bonds and cash instruments. You are also willing to accept a greater risk of 
losses for the benefit of potential gains over the longer term.
I think thats a broadly fair assessment of the information Mr W provided  he seems to have 
indicated that:
he wanted the chance of higher returns than cash and fixed interest products by 
increasing exposure to equities
he was open to considering alternatives to deposits
he didnt want to lose money in the short term but hed be comfortable with a 
balanced style investment such as UK Equities
he would be prepared to lose money on an individual fund and still be pleased if 
overall performance showed a reasonable return.  
Looked at overall, Im satisfied that risk was discussed with Mr W and that, despite his lack 
of investment experience, he would most likely have understood that risk increased with the 
potential for making money. He seems to have been prepared to invest for the 
medium/longer term. I havent seen anything to show that he wasnt prepared to take a 
medium risk to achieve his objectives of income alongside capital growth  which I think it's 
fair to say a medium risk fund would have offered potential to deliver.
With this in mind, I've first looked carefully at Mr Ws investment in the GCA. Ive kept in 
mind that structured deposits have a higher risk compared to a fixed deposit, which not only 
guarantees return of capital but also a rate of interest. And Ive thought about whether, even if Mr W might have understood that his capital was protected and he wanted to 
prioritise this, he might not have understood how the return would be calculated or what it 
would be linked to. And whether, even if Mr W had realised the way it worked and the risk 
of obtaining little or no return, he may not have opted for it  or he might have wanted to 
risk less of his money this way. 
The product literature described the GCA as follows:
The HSBC Guaranteed Capital Account is a fixed term deposit account. It provides you 
with an attractive rate of income on 50% of your initial subscription, while benefiting from 
interest linked to any growth of the FTSE 100 Index on the remaining 50% of your 
subscription, over a fixed term. Your initial deposit will be returned in full after maturity, 
provided you make no withdrawals over the term of your Account.
This meant that half of Mr Ws £34,000 deposit in the GCA would generate income over the 
fixed term and half would provide interest linked to any growth of the FTSE 100 Index (after 
averaging over the last twelve months). 
I think Mr W wouldve been able to understand the basic principle behind this account  at 
least, enough to know if it could offer him the sort of investment potential he was looking 
for. And at the time, I think he might reasonably have thought that one of the advantages 
for him of the GCA over the longer term could be having the chance of a return that would 
beat what he could reasonably have expected from a savings account or money market 
returns, whilst at the same time protecting his capital  which was a priority for him.  
To my mind, the GCA reflected what Mr W told the advisor he wanted to achieve - hed said 
he wanted some stock market interaction but without the capital risk. The GCA offered a 
capital guarantee but also the potential for growth  plus the chance to have an income as 
well. Mr W had told the advisor he wanted to boost his chances of getting an income that 
would ideally double his current monthly disposable income. The advisor said that the 
income from the GCA on present figures would be around £87 monthly  which matched 
what Mr W had said hed wanted (stating also that returns couldnt be guaranteed). 
From the notes I've seen in the fact find, I am satisfied that the advisor highlighted the main 
features of this sort of investment and explained to Mr W about the value of spreading risk 
and how he could do that by holding this investment in a range of smaller diverse funds. It 
seems that Mr W said his priorities were to obtain a capital guarantee and the best rate 
possible on his income so he didnt wish to diversify the £34,000 he had to invest. 
Mr W was also confident that he wouldnt need access to his capital for other purposes 
before the end of the six year term he wanted to sign up to. In the event, Mr W made 
withdrawals in 2011 and 2012. There had been an option to invest for three and a half 
years and the longer term exposed Mr W to potentially significant loss and surrender 
penalties for longer. But the notes record the advisor discussed this with Mr W and 
ultimately it was his choice to choose the term he felt was right for him. I cant fairly say the 
advisor should have known when Mr W might need to access this money. So I dont feel 
this is enough of a reason to uphold the complaint.   
HSBC said this sort of structured account was a compromise whereby an investor 
continued to face the uncertainty over the gain achieved, if any, but was shielded from 
capital loss. That protection was provided at the expense of limiting the gains available with 
an unprotected investment, but still offered the potential to improve on deposit-based 
returns.The GCA was recommended with the aim of outperforming the market and whilst the return 
Mr W got on this investment was impacted by the crash in the financial markets a few years 
later, this wasnt reasonably foreseeable at the time. He received income totalling 
£2,394.74 from the GCA. 
All in all, Ive not found enough to fairly say that the GCA recommendation wasnt suitable 
for Mr W or make a finding that too much of his available funds were invested in the GCA. It 
offered Mr W a balance between protecting underlying capital, which was key feature for 
him, whilst broadening his available investment options  which was also important to 
maximise his potential investment gain. Given Mr Ws particular circumstances and 
requirements at the time in 2006, and keeping in mind what he wanted his money to 
achieve for him and his attitude to risk, on balance, I dont feel that I can fairly say the GCA 
recommendation didnt broadly suit those needs.
Thinking about the HSBC Growth Fund of Funds, HSBC has provided a copy of the product 
literature from the time Mr W invested in 2006 and this gives a useful insight into the 
composition of the fund, as follows.
What does the Fund aim to do?
The objective of this portfolio is to provide medium to long term capital growth. The fund will 
invest in a diversified portfolio of regulated collective investment schemes that in turn invest 
in equities and bonds predominantly in the UK with some overseas exposure.
The fund was invested in a mix of equities - around half were UK equities - and it included 
some more volatile products, balanced by less risky investments, which would fit the overall 
description of Medium Risk. From his discussions with the advisor, I think Mr W understood 
that investing at less risk to his capital didnt offer the potential for growth he was looking for. 
I've noted there were no withdrawals from the ISA. Given Mr Ws attitude to risk in 2006, his 
needs and investment objectives and the opportunity this investment offered him in terms 
of potential investment gain, whilst spreading some of his overall investment risk, I havent 
seen enough to be able to say this fund was too risky or otherwise unsuitable for him. 
The fact that there may have been other more suitable/less risky funds which could have 
been considered isnt a reason to uphold this complaint because I have found that the 
advice given was suitable. 
In coming to my decision I've taken carefully into account everything the CMC has said in 
response to the investigators view. 
Whilst I agree that Mr Ws investment experience was something that the advisor needed to 
think about when advising on investments, it is not the only thing that had to be considered. 
The fact someone is a first-time investor does not automatically mean that only investment in 
low risk or no risk investments should be recommended. This would effectively deprive first 
time investors of the opportunity to make bigger investment gains than they could otherwise 
achieve, which seems unfair to me.
I dont agree that Mr Ws health condition was a good enough reason to think it fair to rule 
out investment risk at the expense of limiting his opportunity to make investment gain. 
Investing in a savings account or a fixed rate bond wouldnt automatically protect against 
the risk of savings being eroded by inflation over time  and it would likely make it harder 
to beat inflation. He and his wife were in a secure financial situation and I can understand why, with no 
dependents, being prepared to take a balanced or medium degree of risk with a 
proportion of his investment pot seemed attractive to Mr W. 
I dont consider the fact alone that Mr W decided to invest the £12,000 or so hed 
originally kept back changes the outcome here. I think it demonstrates that Mr W 
understood that he could take advantage of being able to invest in whatever way best 
suited him as his intentions or circumstances changed. By deciding to invest further, 
some five months or so after speaking to HSBCs advisor, I think Mr W probably 
understood that he was potentially increasing his chances of gaining an investment return 
over and above what he could expect to achieve just keeping the money on deposit  and 
he now felt comfortable risking more of his money with this objective in mind. 
I consider that the original recommendation to invest this money was suitable in any 
event as I have found above that he appeared to be comfortably able to absorb a degree 
of investment loss. To sum up, I consider that the investment advice HSBC provided to Mr W in 2006 was 
suitable, given his particular circumstances and financial situation and investment 
aspirations.  
My final decision
For all these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mrs 
W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman