DRN-1689124
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains, in her capacity as executor of the late Mrs Ms estate, that Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS) has paid the proceeds of Mrs Ms accounts to someone that was 
not entitled to receive them, after it was notified Mrs M had passed away. 
What happened
Mrs M had several savings accounts with YBS. YBS had record of a power of attorney 
registered against those accounts. The registered attorney was not Mrs C  it was another 
party.
Mrs M passed away in February 2019. Mrs C informed YBS of this on 6 February 2019. 
YBS records show a death certificate was received at the end of February 2019. The total 
combined balance of Mrs Ms accounts at that point was over £13,500. Mrs C then began 
discussions with YBS about the documents that needed to be provided for the estate to be 
settled.
While this was ongoing, YBS sent a cheque for £7,870, payable to a firm of funeral directors, 
to the party that previously held power of attorney, at the end of February 2019.
It then sent the remaining balances from all three of Mrs Ms accounts (totalling £5,791.68) 
to the same other party (the former attorney) by cheque in March 2019.
Once Mrs C became aware of this she complained to YBS that it had released the funds to a 
party that did not have authority to request them. The solicitors acting for the estate in 
dealing with arrangements following Mrs Ms death also wrote to YBS and made attempts to 
recover the money  at additional cost to the estate.
YBS said it had acted in good faith in releasing the funds as the other party (previous 
attorney) had provided a copy of Mrs Ms death certificate  so was considered the 
informant. It said that the requirements for what documentation it needed to release 
proceeds of an estate differed depending on the amount involved. If it was under £5,000 a 
solicitor was not required to sign the release form. If it was over £5,000, they were. Here as 
the estate was slightly over £5,000 it had released the funds at its discretion, without a 
solicitors signature on the form provided by the other party. In any event it considered this a 
civil dispute between the estate and the other party. And it noted that the other party had 
signed a declaration indemnifying YBS. YBS did offer Mrs C £20 in respect of a delay in 
processing correspondence.
 
Unhappy with this response Mrs C, on behalf of the estate, asked our service to look into the 
complaint. She said that the validity of the power of attorney was in question before these 
events  and has provided evidence to support this. And in any event the person the money 
was released to was not authorised to give instructions relating to the accounts or receive funds at the time it was sent. So, she felt YBS should pay the estate an amount equivalent to 
the funds that were wrongly released to an unauthorised party as well as covering the 
additional legal costs incurred.
An investigator looked into the complaint. He felt the estate had received the benefit of the 
cheque payment to the funeral directors so there was no loss in respect of this amount. As a 
result he didnt think this amount needed to be refunded. However, he felt that YBS was 
wrong to pay the remaining balance of the accounts to the other party. This was because he 
felt that YBS was on notice of a dispute but had paid the funds out, using its discretion and 
not in line with its own internal policies, simply on the basis that the other party had claimed 
them first. He didnt feel this was a valid reason to do so and that this had caused the estate 
a loss. He also felt the estate had incurred additional legal costs as a direct result of this 
error. So, to put things right he recommended that YBS pay Mrs Ms estate an amount 
equivalent to the balance incorrectly paid to the other party plus the additional legal costs 
incurred.
Mrs C, on behalf of Mrs Ms estate, accepted the investigators findings.
YBS did not agree. It said it had no reason to doubt the instruction it had been given, it does 
not become involved in disputes between third parties and it felt it had followed its 
procedures correctly.
As YBS did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M passed away on 6 February 2019. At that point any existing power of attorney ceased 
to be valid and the attorney was no longer authorised to act on Mrs Ms behalf. Ive seen a 
copy of the grant of probate relating to Mrs Ms estate and this confirms Mrs C was the 
appointed executor. So, Mrs C is and was the only party entitled to act for the estate. No 
other party is named. So very simply, at the points YBS released funds, the party it released 
them to was not entitled to act on behalf of Mrs M or her estate.
YBS has said a lot about its processes and requirements and that it acted in good faith when 
it sent the money to the other party, based on their previous association with the account.
Ive seen a copy of YBS processes and the requirements it sets for releasing funds. It says 
a will or grant of probate is not necessarily required. But a form does need to be filled in. And 
if the estate / amount of money in the accounts exceeds £5,000 this form has to be counter 
signed by a solicitor. The total amount in Mrs Ms account  either before or after accounting 
for the payment of funeral expenses  exceeded £5,000. Ive seen a copy of the form 
provided by the party the funds were released to. This wasnt signed by a solicitor. So, it 
didnt meet the requirements of YBS internal processes. But YBS released the funds 
anyway  outside of its usual process. 
 
YBS says it decided at its discretion to release the funds. But that decision has led to the 
situation that caused the complaint. And I think this also shows the same discretion couldve 
been used to require additional evidence not usually part of YBS process  such as the 
grant of probate which wouldve confirmed whether this was the correct thing to do.Ive seen YBS internal system notes. These indicate that YBS was aware of a potential 
dispute about the proceeds of Mrs Ms account before releasing the funds. The same 
dispute is referenced in the note that was made at the time it used its discretion to release 
the funds. It had also received two versions of its internal form required to release the funds 
 one filled correctly, one not  as well as notification of Mrs Ms death from different parties. 
So, I think it was aware that there was a dispute here. And this also calls into question 
whether YBS did truly act in good faith. YBS says it does not involve itself in disputes 
between third parties. But by making the payment to one party when it had knowledge of a 
dispute I think that it is exactly what it has done  intentionally or not.
But in any event, the central issue here is that YBS has released funds to someone that was 
not authorised to receive them. Im not commenting on YBS processes or whether these are 
correct  it isnt my role to do so (although again I note the funds were actually released 
outside of its processes using its discretion). Im simply considering whether it has made an 
error when it decided to release the funds to the other party. And based on the information 
available in this specific complaint, I think it has. And I think this has caused a direct loss to 
Mrs Ms estate.
I agree that the cheque that was paid for funeral expenses has benefitted the estate. And 
Mrs M has acknowledged it was always the intention that the funeral would be covered from 
the proceeds  although she still thinks YBS was incorrect to make this payment. As I dont 
think the release of the payment for funeral expenses has caused a loss, I dont think this 
needs to be refunded.
The residual amount however, was released to the wrong party, in error. The estate has 
been unable to recover this. This means it has directly lost out on this amount as a result of 
YBS error. So, I think on a fair and reasonable basis, YBS should make a payment of this 
amount to the estate.
I also think YBS error caused the estate to incur costs it otherwise wouldnt have. 
Specifically, additional costs from the solicitors acting in relation to settling the estate. It isnt 
the case that Mrs Ms estate went out and appointed the solicitors firm just to deal with this 
dispute. They were already dealing with the probate and settlement of the estate. The costs 
of this have increased due to YBS error. And as a result, I think its reasonable that YBS 
cover those additional costs. Weve been provided with an itemised breakdown of the 
solicitors costs. Having reviewed this, Im satisfied that the reasonable additional costs 
incurred dealing with this matter were £850. So, I think YBS should cover these costs.
YBS has said that the party it paid the funds to, signed a declaration indemnifying it. But I 
dont think that means that the estate cant seek to hold YBS liable for any errors. It might 
allow YBS to pursue the person that signed the indemnity but that is a matter for it to 
consider.
 
 
 
YBS has also said there is the possibility that these funds will be recovered twice by the 
estate. As Ive said, the estate has been unsuccessful so far in recovering the funds from the 
third party. And it thinks it is unlikely that it will be. But I do understand YBS point. With that 
in mind, if as part of the settlement of this complaint YBS requests Mrs C, on behalf of Mrs 
Ms estate, sign a declaration covering this scenario, I think that would be fair. For the 
avoidance of doubt I mean by this that the estate agrees to return the portion of the settlement equivalent to the balances of Mrs Ms accounts that were incorrectly paid out to 
the third party (£5,791.68) in the event the estate successfully recovers these funds from the 
third party.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold the estate of Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right I require Yorkshire Building Society to;
Pay Mrs Ms estate £5,791.68 representing the amount paid incorrectly to another 
party. YBS can reasonably request a declaration be signed in respect of this figure 
confirming the estate agrees to return it in the event the estate successfully recovers 
the same amount from the party it was incorrectly paid to.
Pay Mrs Ms estate a further £850 representing the additional legal costs it incurred 
as a result of the error. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs M, to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman