DRN-3781587
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) irresponsibly gave him a credit 
card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 22 November 2018, Mr Ps credit card was opened by HSBC Bank with an initial credit 
limit of £4,000. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr P complained to HSBC Bank to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that HSBC Bank ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card for 
him. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
HSBC Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ps complaint is that HSBC Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. HSBC 
Bank has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr P provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ps name 
to assess Mr Ps level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, HSBC Bank decided to 
agree to the credit limit of £4,000. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the 
time of the sale.
The HSBC Bank checks showed that Mr P had over £13,000 in unsecured borrowings. I 
have noted that Mr Ps credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. When I 
say this, I mean that Mr Ps management of his existing credit showed no recent history of 
CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that 
the lending decision was made, Mr P was affording his existing credit. And so, HSBC Bank 
were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think 
that the information that HSBC Bank had at the time of the lending decision, would have led 
them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ps expenditure. 
Mr P has provided us with some bank statements for his current account with a different 
bank and they do show some evidence of gambling on them, and of short-term lending. I 
have to look at the information that was available to HSBC Bank at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen no evidence that Mr P made HSBC 
Bank aware of his gambling at the time the credit card was applied for. And I have seen 
insufficient evidence that the other information that HSBC Bank acquired or had presented 
to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that the credit they 
were making available at that time was unreasonable. 
In this case, I have noted that at application, Mr P arranged for the majority of his new 
credit limit to be taken up with a balance transfer. This was treated at 0% interest. So, I 
dont see the activity on the card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by HSBC 
Bank, adding to an existing amount of personal borrowing. Instead, the new credit, rather 
than solely adding to Mr Ps burden of credit, it looks like Mr P was taking steps, that could 
be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this card and using it to 
secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mr P would have been 
saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem 
automatically unreasonable for HSBC Bank to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit HSBC Bank provided to Mr P was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman