DRN-3981368
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to credit a refund to his account.
What happened
Mr I says that in February 2022 he tried to send money to someone from his Barclays 
account via a third party payment processer. But that payment did not go though, and so the 
third party refunded him. However, Mr I says that this refund never reached his Barclays 
account. He asked Barclays to raise a chargeback dispute, but Barclays said that it had no 
chargeback rights. Mr I referred this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint. She agreed that no chargeback reason 
applied. But she thought that Barclays could have done more to trace the refund, as the 
money was presumably with Barclays, or else Barclays had returned the refund to the third 
party. She did not recommend that Barclays pay Mr I compensation, but she made it clear 
that Barclays should do more to help him.
Mr I was not satisfied with that outcome, and so this complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also contacted the third party myself to investigate what happened at their end.
I am satisfied on all the evidence before me that there was nothing else that Barclays could 
have done, and that Barclays has not withheld any money from Mr I at any time.
There is therefore no reason for me to uphold this complaint. (I also think that it is 
unnecessary for me to issue a provisional decision before proceeding to a final decision in 
this case, and so this is my final decision.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023. But he has reached the end of our process, and so 
we will not enter into any further correspondence about the merits of this complaint.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
