DRN-1902776
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender lent irresponsibly to her. 
What happened
On 7 September 2012, Mrs L borrowed £200 from Mr Lender. The loan was due to be paid 
back in two monthly instalments  with one for £60 and another for £260. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with that view 
and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Mrs L just had the one loan with Mr Lender and so her application was very early in the 
relationship. I can see that when she applied for the loan, Mr Lender verified Mrs Ls income 
and employment status. I think it could have asked more about Mrs Ls expenditure, but I 
dont think that would have affected the decision overall. From the information provided, I 
can see how Mr Lender would have reasonably concluded that the loan repayments were 
sustainably affordable.  
I understand that when she applied for this loan, Mrs L was in a debt management plan. At 
the point of application Mr Lender did undertake a relatively simple credit check, which 
showed that Mrs L wasnt bankrupt or in an IVA. I think the credit check Mr Lender undertook 
at that stage was proportionate and I wouldnt expect a debt management plan to be 
revealed in such a check. 
I appreciate that the debt management plan may have come to light if Mr Lender had 
undertaken a full review of Mrs Ls finances. But I dont think there was anything about the 
information Mrs L provided that would have triggered that full review for a first loan.
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld her 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman