DRN-2729130
The complaint
Mr G complains about policies for life assurance and to cover critical illnesses, sold to him by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc in 2009. Mr G says he was told he had to have the policies to get a 
mortgage. But he found out in 2019 this wasnt the case, and the policies had been optional. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for these reasons:
None of the documents from 2009, when the policies were sold, say Mr G had to 
have the policies to get the mortgage. The only insurance that seems to have been 
required was buildings insurance.
That gives weight against Mr Gs complaint. If the written documents at the time 
didnt say he needed to have the policies, it seems unlikely the advisor would have 
said something different. 
Mr G remembers being told he needed to have the policies. And thats consistent 
with his cancelling them as soon as he found out he didnt have to have them. 
But I cant see anything that shows Mr Gs understanding came from HSBC 
incorrectly telling him he had to have the policies. With no other evidence, I find it 
more likely that HSBC advised in line with whats in the written documents. Those 
reasonably explained that Mr G didnt have to have the policies to get the mortgage. 
Looking at the general suitability of the products, a fact-find from 2009 shows the 
policies were suitable for Mr Gs needs. The life cover would have allowed him to pay 
off the mortgage and leave his house to his family. And the critical illness cover 
meant he wouldnt have had to worry about paying his mortgage if he got one of the 
illnesses the policy covered. The sums assured and decreasing terms for both suited 
the details of Mr Gs repayment mortgage.
So I find HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when selling these policies to Mr G. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman