DRN-3696246
Complaint
Miss V has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with unaffordable 
loans. 
Background
L2G provided Miss V with an initial loan for £1,000.00 in February 2020. This loan was 
repaid in full before the first instalment was due. L2G then provided Miss V with a second 
loan for £350 in April 2020. This loan was also settled in full before the first instalment was 
due.
L2G then provided Miss V with a third and final loan in July 2020. This loan was for 
£1,000.00, had an APR of 1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £4,114.08 was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £228.56. 
As loans 1 and 2 were settled without any interest being paid our adjudicator didnt uphold 
Miss Vs complaints about these loans. Miss V accepted this assessment and as there is no 
longer any dispute about these loans, Ive only considered whether L2G acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to loan 3. And all references made to loan from this point forward are 
made in relation to loan 3.
When looking at Miss Vs complaint, one of our adjudicators thought that L2G unfairly 
provided loan 3 as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Vs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Vs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss V would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss V wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss V would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided all of Miss Vs loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Vs ability to make the repayments under 
these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss V. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss V undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss V. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss V prior to 
providing her with her loan. It also carried out credit checks. Miss V declared that she was 
earning around £3,270.00 a month. L2G checks suggested Miss Vs income was closer to £2,000.00 and her expenditure was around £1,425.00. In L2Gs view, this still left Miss V 
with enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But L2Gs credit checks clearly show that      
Miss V was significantly indebted and while she may not have had any recent defaults, I 
dont think her finances were in good shape. Equally, L2G clearly wasnt confident in the 
income and expenditure information Miss V provided such that it adjusted the figures.
Finally, I also think that L2G ought to have been concerned about why Miss V was 
approaching for a third loan, on such disadvantageous terms, in such a short period of time. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Miss Vs actual 
income and expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Miss V with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Miss V
would have been unable to repay her loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Miss V would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Miss V could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss V was 
borrowing further to repay previous loans. Her income was pretty much being used to meet 
commitments to existing creditors. So I think that proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have shown L2G that Miss V was unlikely to be able to make her payments without 
borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss V would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Miss V was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss V in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss V in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss V in some other way.
Did Miss V lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Miss V paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss V
Having thought about everything, Im currently minded to find that L2G should put things 
right for Miss V by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss V paid on loan 3;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Miss V to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about loan 3 from Miss Vs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Vs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman