DRN-2046860
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) didnt highlight problems with its 
mobile banking app in relation to a certain brand of smart phone. Mr B also complains that 
Co-Ops online chat service wasnt working properly when he tried to raise the issue. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr B opened a new Co-Op bank account and tried to set up the mobile 
banking app on his smart phone. Mr B has told us the mobile banking app wouldnt work so 
he spent a few days troubleshooting the issue before contacting Co-Op. When Mr B did 
contact Co-Op via its online chat facility, his discussions timed out or were disconnected. 
Mr B was able to complete an online chat with Co-Op and the steps required to resolve the 
situation were explained. Mr B complained and asked for £25 compensation. Co-Op didnt 
agree to provide compensation and Mr B referred his concerns to our service and asked for 
the compensation figure to be increased to £50. 
An investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint before felt Co-Op had dealt with it fairly. Mr B 
asked to appeal and highlighted concerns that Co-Op had failed to proactively tell him about 
the technical issue. He also said that its online chat facility had caused additional difficulties. 
As Mr B has asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is upset and why he expected the mobile banking app to work 
without issue. Mr B uses a well known brand of smart phone and has questioned why Co-Op 
didnt highlight the technical issues affecting it during the application process. Mr B has told 
us he spent several days trouble shooting the issue before contacting Co-Op. 
I take Mr Bs point, but I think Co-Op could reasonably expect a customer experiencing a 
technical issue with its mobile banking app to get in touch with it about those problems. 
Leaving the online chat issues to one side, its clear that Co-Op was aware of the issue and 
had a workaround in place. Co-Op was able to quickly supply a technical resolution to the 
problem that got Mr Bs mobile banking app working. I think its reasonable to conclude that 
Co-Op could have resolved the situation for Mr B sooner if it had been asked to get involved. 
Mr B has told us that the online chat facility had significant problems that led to him being cut 
off and timed out. Co-Op has sent us copies of the online chat logs along with copies of the 
chats themselves. I can see that Mr B was disconnected twice on 10 March 2020 and that 
he advised the next person he was connected to that the conversations had timed out. But 
the evidence indicates that it was Mr B that had left the online chat rather than Co-Op. 
I can only uphold a complaint where Ive found evidence that a business made an error, but 
here the information Ive seen indicates that Co-Op didnt end or disconnect the online chats 
it had with Mr B. As the information doesnt show Co-Op was responsible for the online chats 
getting cut off, I havent found grounds to make an award or say it made a mistake. 
Mr B says Co-Op should have proactively highlighted the known issue with his brand of 
smart phone to him on account opening. I agree that this information would have been useful 
to Mr B from the outset. But I have to take into account that not all customers will have the 
same brand of phone as Mr B and that the mobile banking app is one of many features 
included with a bank account. Im not persuaded it would be pragmatic for Co-Op to 
specifically highlight a technical issue relating to one brand of smart phones with all its 
customers during the application process. And, as Ive said above, once Mr B contacted 
Co-Op to tell it about the technical issues he faced it was able to provide a workaround in 
good time. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst I do understand Mr Bs concerns, I think Co-Op dealt with his complaint fairly. As a 
result, Im not telling Co-Op to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman