DRN-3183833
Complaint
Miss I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly refused to refund a 
number of transactions on her credit card account, which she says she never made or 
agreed to.
Background
In late December 2020, Miss I contacted NatWest about a number of transactions that had 
taken place on her credit card. She told NatWest she hadnt made these transactions as  
she hadnt used her credit card since she made the final payment to clear the balance on her 
account in July 2020. Mrs I had a credit limit of £1,900.00.
Miss I disputed 10 transactions in total which had a combined value of around £1,900.00. 
Ive confirmed the transactions in question in the table below:
Date Description Transaction type Amount
02 Dec 2020 Third-party processed payment Online £450
06 Dec 2020 GLOBALACADEMICRESEARCH Online £45
24 Dec 2020 Loadging H AMC ROYA HURGHADA Signed £846.25
26 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £95.02
26 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £95.02
26 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £95.02
26 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £95.02
26 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £95.02
27 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £23.75
27 Dec 2020 AMC HURGHADA (ATM withdrawal) Chip and PIN £47.51
Mrs Is initial conversations with NatWest and its investigation
The 10 transactions here are a couple of online transactions, a hotel transaction and eight 
cash machine withdrawals. The hotel transaction and cash machine withdrawals took place 
in Egypt and when she spoke to NatWest, Miss I confirmed that shed been in the country  
between 30 October 2020 and 5 December 2020 - albeit not at the time the transactions 
were made. She also confirmed that shed lost her card although she wasnt sure when or 
where. Finally, Miss I confirmed that she hadnt written down her Personal Identification 
Number (PIN) although she might have had it on her phone which hadnt been lost and had 
been in her possession at all times.
NatWest carried out an investigation into the transactions and concluded that Mrs Is actual 
card had been used and that her correct PIN had been entered first time for the cash 
machine withdrawals. It didnt consider this to be a typical fraud pattern and declined to 
refund the amount of the transactions. Miss I was dissatisfied at this and referred matters to 
our service. 
Mrs I conversation with our investigator and his investigation
One of our investigators contacted Miss I before issuing his findings. Miss I told our 
investigator that she couldnt remember much about what had happened as the transactions 
took place the year before. But she was in Egypt  although shed been in the capital Cairo 
rather than the city where the majority of the transactions took place, from 3 November 2020 
and returned on 5 December 2020. 
Miss I remembered taking her credit card with her but didnt use it while abroad. It was only 
when she received her credit card statement after returning home that she noticed the 
transactions and went to check whether she had her card. It was at this point she noticed her 
card was missing and she immediately called NatWest. Miss I also said that she may have 
left her PIN on a sticker on the back of her card as it was a new card and this was something 
she did with new cards.   
After considering everything that had been provided, our investigator thought it was more 
likely than not that Miss I had authorised the transactions. He couldnt see what would have 
enabled someone to make the online transactions with Miss Is details and couldnt see how 
someone would have known Mrs Is PIN to have used it for the withdrawals. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Miss I disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My further attempts to contact Mrs I
At this point, I think it would be useful for me to set out that there are some clear 
inconsistencies between what Miss I told NatWest when she reported the transactions and 
what she told our investigator. Ive attempted to contact Miss I to give her the opportunity to 
clarify these inconsistencies. But Miss I hasnt returned my calls or responded to the email I 
sent her asking her to call or email me. 
Additionally, while she said she completely disagreed with our investigators outcome she 
didnt explain why. Given Miss I hasnt responded to my requests to get in contact, or 
clarified what exactly it is she disagrees with, Ive had to reach a decision based on what I do 
have.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding Miss Is complaint, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; industry codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. As the parties disagree about what 
happened, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened here  on 
the balance of probabilities. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These regulations say that 
a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where the payer has given its consent to 
the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the form and in 
accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment service provider. Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transaction in question were authorised by the customer. 
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Miss I 
authorised these transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Miss I made the 
transactions herself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments.
In this case, there are three possible explanations for how the transactions Miss I has 
disputed came about. Either the transactions were made by an unknown third party, by 
someone known to Miss I or by Miss I herself. Miss I says she wasnt in Egypt at the time of 
the transactions where the card was present and if I were to accept her version of events 
this makes the possibility she authorised these transactions herself less likely. So this leaves 
the prospect of these transactions having been carried out by an opportunistic fraudster, or 
someone known to Miss I. 
The first two of the transactions were carried out online, without the card being physically 
presented and while Miss I says she was still abroad. The first of the transactions was a 
payment made using a well-known third-party payment system. Miss I has been asked 
whether the account used to make the transaction was her account and whether her account 
has been compromised. Miss I has told us that the account name listed on the transaction, 
on her credit card statement, isnt hers. But this is to be expected as the account listed on 
Miss Is credit card statement is the account the payment was made to and not the account 
the payment was made from. 
The information NatWest has provided indicates that Miss Is full address and postcode 
details were used to verify her. But rather disappointingly NatWest hasnt been able to 
provide me with the name of the third-party accountholder. That said, Im mindful that Miss I 
told our investigator that her main account with the third-party payments system operator 
didnt show this transaction. Its unclear to me whether this means Miss I has more than one 
account with the payment system operator. But despite having been given the opportunity to 
do so, Miss I hasnt provided the transaction history for her account. 
The second of the transactions was an online payment using Miss Is credit card details. It 
isnt entirely clear what this payment was for. And its fair to say that NatWests investigation 
of this transaction could have been better. Other than its view that the other transactions 
made support Miss I having authorised them, its not clear to me what NatWest is relying on 
to show this transaction was authenticated by Miss I. 
For example, the authorisation report doesnt obviously show me that Miss Is address and 
postcode details were used to verify her in the same way they were on the first transaction. 
And the authorisation report rather bizarrely indicates authorisation was obtained via the 
magnetic strip on Miss Is card as a fallback option, even though this was an online 
transaction.  
That said, Im mindful that Miss I has said that she only discovered these transactions when 
she received her December 2020 statement, which was dated 22 December 2020 and 
presumably sent on or around that date. But NatWest has provided us with evidence to show 
that Miss I logged on to mobile banking with her usual device on an almost daily basis in 
December 2020. I know Miss I told NatWest her phone wasnt working. But her NatWest 
current account statements also show mobile payments being made. And as theres no suggestion these transactions werent authorised by Miss I, Im afraid that the available 
evidence simply doesnt support her version of events here. 
Miss I had a nil balance on her credit card prior to the December 2020 transactions and its 
my understanding that her account balance would have appeared each time she logged in to 
mobile banking. As Miss I has said she hadnt used her card at all since she cleared the 
balance in July 2020, it seems inconceivable that Miss I wouldnt have noticed that 
transactions had taken place on her credit card, or start looking into what might have been 
going on. And I certainly think that she ought to have noticed this sooner than when she 
contacted NatWest about these transactions a few weeks later. 
Miss I didnt do this and NatWest has also provided other evidence which suggests other 
personal information, which someone who just happened to find Mrs Is card, in the way 
shes suggested, simply wouldnt have been aware of, was used for at least one of the 
transactions. So, in these circumstances, I find that it is more likely than not these online 
transactions were either made by Mrs I, or someone known to her. 
There was a delay of almost three weeks between the second of the online transactions and 
the remaining transactions. I am aware that these transactions took place in Egypt after  
Miss I says she returned to the United Kingdom (UK) and that they took place at a place 
which is some distance from where Miss I says she went to when she was in Egypt. Ive 
weighed what Miss I has told us against everything else Ive been provided with. 
      
While the third of Miss Is disputed transactions is the hotel payment and this took place 
before the disputed cash machine withdrawals, given the number of cash withdrawals, I think 
it would make matters simpler for me to set out my thoughts on these transactions first.
Its worth noting that these transactions were made just under three weeks after the online 
transactions. And it isnt typical for an opportunistic fraudster to wait such a period, thus 
increasing the possibility of the accountholder realising the card was lost and stopping it, 
before using it again. NatWest has provided evidence to show that Miss Is genuine card 
was used to make these withdrawals. It has also provided evidence to show that Miss Is 
correct PIN was entered, at the first time of asking, for each of these transactions. So Im 
satisfied that that these transactions were authenticated with Miss Is credentials. 
As Ive already explained, Miss I says she didnt and that she wasnt in Egypt when these 
withdrawals were made. However, the first thing for me to say is that Miss I hasnt provided 
us with anything to support her having already returned to the UK by the time these 
withdrawals were made.
Secondly, even if Miss I had returned to the UK, for the sake of completeness I want to make 
it clear that Im not making that finding here, the withdrawals were made with the use of her 
genuine card and her PIN. Miss Is recollections of how her PIN might have been 
compromised can, at best, be described as sketchy. She initially told NatWest that her PIN 
wasnt with her card and that she had in stored in her phone which had been with her at all 
times. Miss Is phone being in her possession at this time appears to be supported by the 
number of mobile banking logins she made in December 2020. Miss I then told our 
investigator that she may have had the PIN on a sticker on the back of her card because this 
was a new card and thats what she normally did when she received a new card. Ive thought 
about what Miss I has said. 
Nonetheless if I take Miss Is argument at its best, it is that she may have left her PIN on the 
back of her card because thats what she did in certain circumstances and situations  shes 
not unequivocally stated that her PIN was kept on a sticker on the back of her card. Equally, 
I dont think that the circumstances that would typically have led Miss I to keep her PIN with her card are present here. I say this because Miss Is credit card wasnt new. NatWest has 
provided evidence to show that the card used for all of the disputed transactions was the one 
Miss I was issued with when she initially opened her credit card account in the early part of 
2018. Miss I wasnt issued with a new card until her original card (issued in 2018) was 
blocked after Miss I got in contact to dispute the transactions in question, in December 2020.
So while Ive thought about what Miss I has said about maybe having kept her PIN with her 
card, the available evidence doesnt support this being a situation where, according to what 
shes sad, she would have done that. As this is the case and given her equivocation on 
whether the PIN was with the card in the first place, at present, Im not persuaded that Miss I 
did have her PIN on the back of her card at the relevant time. 
Furthermore, as Miss Is PIN appears to have been correctly entered at the first attempt for 
these withdrawals, there appears to be no other credible explanation for it being 
compromised and I dont see why a fraudster or someone else looking to take advantage 
would have waited so long to once again use the card, Im satisfied that it is more likely than 
not that either Miss I herself, or someone she provided authority with made these 
withdrawals. So Im satisfied that its more likely than not that not only were these 
withdrawals correctly authenticated, they were made with Miss Is consent. And so I find that 
it is more likely than not Miss I authorised these transactions.
I now turn to the disputed hotel payment. Its worth noting that the cash machine, where the 
withdrawals which Ive already concluded its more likely than not Miss I authorised, appears 
to have been located in the complex of the hotel, which requested this payment. And this 
payment appears to have been made a couple of days before the cash machine 
withdrawals. 
I do have some concerns over the veracity of NatWests investigation in relation to this 
transaction. For example, I know that it has simply accepted that Miss I signed to authorise 
this transaction without obtaining a copy of the receipt from the hotel even though its 
investigation notes appear to suggest the hotel confirmed Miss I wasnt on the list of guests 
for the room booked. That said, Ive already concluded that it is more likely than not that 
either Miss I herself, or someone she provided authority with made the cash withdrawals. 
Given the proximity in time and place of the hotel payment and most crucially the lack of any 
other credible explanation from Miss I, Im currently minded to make a similar finding in 
relation to this hotel payment transaction.      
So overall and having considered everything, I find that it is more likely than not Miss I did 
authorise the transactions shes disputing. And so NatWest is entitled to hold Miss I liable for 
the disputed transactions and Im not upholding Miss Is complaint. I realise that this is likely 
to be disappointing for Miss I. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for this 
provisional decision and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman