DRN-2037984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that ReAssure Limited mis-sold them an endowment policy. They 
say it was negligent in the advice it gave them.
What happened
This policy was with Legal and General (L&G) which has transferred some of its business to 
ReAssure Limited. As a result, ReAssure is the respondent business in this complaint. But Ill 
refer to L&G or ReAssure as appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs R told us that they took out an endowment policy in 1986. Theyve said they 
cant recall who gave them the advice to take out the policy, but that an L&G agent may 
have visited their house. Mr and Mrs R have also said they were under the impression that 
the policy would pay off their mortgage as well as providing a lump sum. 
L&G, and later ReAssure said that, as the policy was surrendered in November 2003, they 
have limited information relating to it, and no information about who sold it. And for that 
reason, its unable to investigate a complaint about the advice given at the time. 
Mr and Mrs R have provided documentation to show that the endowment policy was with 
L&G but neither party has been able to provide any documentation about the sale of the 
policy. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She said that she wasnt satisfied that L&G, or an 
appointed representative, was responsible for the sale of the endowment so she didnt 
recommend that the complaint was upheld. But Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, I dont uphold this 
complaint  and Ill explain why.
It hasnt been disputed that it was an L&G policy, but the issue here is about the
advice given that led to an endowment policy being sold. While Mr and Mrs R have some 
information about the policy itself, there isnt sufficient information to say that L&G was 
responsible for the advice given at the time of the sale.  
There simply isnt enough information available to say who was responsible. Because of the
amount of time that has passed, neither party has any evidence about the sale. This is
understandable - I cant reasonably expect either party to have information about a sale that
happened over 30 years ago. So I cant safely say, based on what Ive seen, that the
policy was sold by, or the advice given by, L&G. And I note that it would be very
difficult for L&G / ReAssure to prove that it wasnt responsible for the advice given - its 
generally quite difficult to prove a negative.
Given the above, I cant fairly hold ReAssure liable for the advice given that led to the
endowment policy being sold. And I dont have sufficient evidence to determine whether it
was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman