DRN-3226236
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) gave her incorrect 
information about her personal pension, impacting on the value she could achieve. 
What happened
As the background to this complaint is well known to both parties, Ill only refer to what I think 
are the key dates. 
Mrs Gs personal pension with Scottish Widows had a Nominated Retirement Date (NRD) of 
18 May 2020. In April 2020, she was told that a Market Value Reduction (MVR) would 
impact on her pension value if she didnt either take her benefits on the NRD or defer that 
date. On 15 May 2020, Mrs G called Scottish Widows to confirm the MVR wouldnt apply if 
she took tax free cash (TFC) and left the remaining value invested on her NRD. And as she 
was told it would still apply to whole value, despite previously being told otherwise, she 
raised a complaint.
Mrs G spoke with Scottish Widows a few times on 18 May 2020, concerned that it was now 
her NRD. And, on 20 May 2020, it recognised shed been given incorrect information about 
the MVR. It said shed need to transfer her policy to take TFC, which she could do internally 
to its retirement account, and that it would ensure the MVR didnt apply by using her NRD as 
the claim date. The next day Mrs G told Scottish Widows she wanted to go ahead with this, 
and she asked it to confirm what shed been told. 
On 26 May 2020, Mrs G told Scottish Life shed received a letter showing the MVR had been 
applied to her policy and that this was causing her stress during a difficult time. It confirmed 
by email the same day that the MVR wouldnt apply and that shed need to book an 
appointment to discuss transferring her policy and claiming TFC. 
A few days later, Scottish Widows gave its final response agreeing it had made mistakes. It 
again confirmed that Mrs Gs policy value would be backdated to her NRD and the next 
steps for her to access TFC. It also offered her £150 compensation for its error. 
On 1 June 2020, Scottish Widows told Mrs G that her transfer value based on her NRD 
ought to have been £82,312.10. On 11 June 2020, it told Mrs G it was putting things right 
and it would let her know when this had been actioned. And it reminded her of this a few 
days later when she said it had paid her the wrong amount of TFC. 
On 15 June 2020, Scottish Widows gave Mrs G a further final response letter. It said the 
transfer value ought to have been £82,176.26. But it agreed to honour the higher value she 
was given on 1 June 2020, explaining this meant shed receive an additional £135.85. It said 
it had provided internal feedback and it offered Mrs G a further £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to her, as well as £65 for her time on the phone.
Mrs G brought her complaint to our Service, adding that Scottish Widows consistently gave 
her wrong information and that it has training and process problems that shed like to know 
what its doing about. 
One of our investigators looked into it and said that Scottish Widows has put Mrs G back in 
the position she would have been in if not for its error. And that she wasnt asking it to do 
anything, as the compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mrs G didnt agree, she said an important occasion was ruined and she was caused upset 
and stress during an already difficult time, due to a close family member being terminally ill. 
Mrs G also said there was a shortfall of £101.89 in the amount Scottish Widows paid her. 
Our investigator said Scottish Widows had evidenced the payments made and that the 
£101.89 was invested in her fund in July 2020. But Mrs G maintained it ought to have paid 
this into her bank account. And she said the difference she can see in her fund value on 
21 July 2020 could be due to performance rather than the £101.89 payment.
As the parties dont agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Scottish Widows to do anything further, for largely the same 
reasons as the investigator. 
Both parties accept that Scottish Widows has made mistakes. In particular that it gave Mrs G 
incorrect information which meant she didnt transfer her policy on her NRD, causing the 
MVR to impact on the value she could achieve. In which case, whats left for me to decide is 
whether I think Scottish Widows has done enough to put this right.  
I can see Mrs Gs been given the transfer value she would have achieved  without the 
application of the MVR  if shed been given correct information. I also note Scottish Widows 
agreed to honour the higher value it incorrectly gave her, which means shes received an 
additional £135.85. So, taking everything into account in all the circumstances, I think 
Scottish Widows has put Mrs G back in the position she would have been in if not for its 
error, if not a better one.
Mrs G says Scottish Widows still owes her £101.89. But I can see it sent her a letter dated 
24 July 2020 confirming this was paid into her fund on 21 July 2020. And Ive seen internal 
evidence of the payment. I havent seen anything to suggest this hasnt been paid. Mrs G 
says Scottish Widows should have paid this into her bank account. But as she was 
transferring her fund and taking TFC it paid £33.96  representing the TFC element of the 
additional £135.85  into her bank account and the remaining £101.89 of this into her fund. 
So Im satisfied Scottish Widows has done what Id expect. 
Turning to compensation, Mrs G was given incorrect information causing her frustration and 
worry during a special occasion. And, while Scottish Widows was trying to put this right, she 
was sent information which showed the MVR had been applied, leading her to get in touch 
with it again during what was already an understandably difficult time for her. 
That being said, I think the £350 total compensation and £65 for the time spent on the phone 
that Scottish Widows has paid Mrs G is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
I think it makes up for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its errors. Especially 
given Scottish Widows recognised to Mrs G within less than a week of her raising her 
complaint that it had made an error which it needed to put right. And that it emailed her confirming the MVR wouldnt apply, despite not yet being in a position to give her its final 
response on the matter, as it recognised the worry this was causing her. 
Mrs G would like to know what Scottish Widows is doing about what she thinks are training 
and process problems. I can see its already explained in one of its final response letters that 
it will be providing internal feedback. And my role isnt to set or change its processes or to 
punish it for its mistakes. Instead, its to see if its acted fairly in the circumstances, which 
I think it has for the reasons Ive given. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not asking Scottish Widows Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman