DRN-1145949
The complaint
Mrs F complains CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) declined her claim after her car was 
stolen, and that they won't reimburse the storage and recovery costs incurred after her car 
was found.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead, I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I accept Mrs F's policy has an exclusion that says theft claims caused by fraud or 
trickery, when someone is posing as a buyer, aren't covered under her policy. 
However, I don't consider strict application of this exclusion is fair in cases where a 
policyholder/named driver hasn't acted carelessly or didn't intend to relinquish control 
of the vehicle claimed for.
 
When the named driver showed Mrs F's car to the "potential buyer", he had no 
intention of allowing this person to take it for a test drive. In fact, he stood between 
the body of the car and the car door while he allowed the person to sit in the driver's 
seat and listen to the engine. And CIS' loss adjusters felt the named driver's 
testimony was credible - hence why they recommended CIS cover the claim.
 
While the car was stolen by trickery, the named driver had taken steps to try 
to remain in control of the vehicle - by physically putting himself in the way of it. So, I 
don't consider there was much more he could have reasonably done to prevent the 
car being driven or stolen by the person posing as a buyer.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I don't consider CIS acted fairly when they declined Mrs F's claim. 
So, to put things right, CIS should settle Mrs F's claim for her stolen car. They should also 
reimburse Mrs F for the storage and recovery costs that were incurred, and she paid, after 
her car was found.
My final decision
To put things right, CIS General Insurance Limited should:settle Mrs F's claim minus any policy excess;
 
reimburse Mrs F for the storage and recovery fees she paid; and
 
pay interest on the amounts above, at an annual rate of 8% simple a year from the 
date of loss, to the date of settlement.
 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires CIS General Insurance Limited to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred above, CIS General  Insurance Limited must give Mrs F a 
certificate showing how much tax they deduct if she asks them for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman