DRN-3631096
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost, as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
 
Mr Es father was looking for an investment, he found a company online and carried out 
some research. Hes said the company had plausible rates of return, was registered with 
Companys House and was represented by a reputable accounts firm. Mr Es father decided 
to invest and his trading account was showing a balance in excess of £100,000. When he 
asked to withdraw some money, Mr Es father was told he needed to make a payment of 
around £6,000 for fees and he asked Mr E for some money.
Mr E went ahead and made the following payments to an account he held with a well-known 
crypto-currency platform;
8 January 2021 @ 12:39 £2.00
8 January 2021 @ 12:54 £100.00
8 January 2021 @ 14:23 £2,000.00
16 February 2021 @ 00:54 £3,000.00
Mr E has said that from here, the money was transferred to a blockchain account that his 
father held, and then from here his father sent it onto the investment company. But unknown 
to them at the time, Mr Es father had been dealing with fraudsters. Mr Es father became 
suspicious, when having paid the fees requested, he was then asked to pay further fees.
 
Mr E raised the matter with Santander and it looked into his fraud claim. It issued its final 
response in September 2021, not upholding the complaint. In summary it said the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) didnt apply as the money was transferred to 
an account Mr E held. It added that it had tried to recover the money Mr E had sent, but no 
funds had remained. Overall it didnt consider it should be held responsible for Mr Es loss.
Unhappy with Santanders response, through his representatives, Mr E then brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, he didnt consider Santander could reasonably 
have been expected to prevent the scam. He didnt think the payments Mr E made were 
particularly unusual or suspicious, so he didnt think Santander missed an opportunity to 
identify the payments were in relation to a scam. He added that, even if Santander had 
contacted Mr E to discuss the payments, he wasnt persuaded that it would have made a 
difference and prevented Mr E from proceeding to make the payments.
 
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator. Im 
extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr E. I can understand entirely why he feels 
so strongly that his money should be returned to him. Its important to clearly acknowledge 
that Mr E has been the victim of a crime here. Mr E has explained about the impact this has 
had on him and his family and I can understand how losing this money has impacted them 
financially. However, the main cause of these losses were the perpetrators of the fraud.
For me to say Santander is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank 
could and should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its 
obligations in some other way. I accept that the payments he made out of his Santander 
account were authorised transactions, even though Mr E was the victim of a scam.
He authorised the payments and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. A voluntary code exists to provide additional 
protection against authorised push payment scams such as this (the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). But the CRM Code only applies to payments 
made directly to another person  payments made to a customers own accounts arent 
covered by the CRM Code. That means the CRM Code provisions are not relevant to Mr Es 
complaint  his payment instructions were to send money from Santander to an account held 
in his own name.
But the CRM Code is not the full extent of the protections that could apply in cases such as 
this. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr E, when he made the transfers and he reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
 
In making the payments through his online and mobile banking, Im satisfied Mr E authorised 
the transactions. Because of this, Santander had an obligation to follow his instructions. 
Santander has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. 
But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Santander shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. But on balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions in this case were so 
unusual or suspicious, that they ought to have alerted Santander that Mr E was at risk of 
financial harm. 
I say this as, having looked through the activity on Mr Es account, for the twelve months 
leading up to the scam, I can see there are other transactions for in excess of £1,000. Im 
also mindful that the payments Mr E made didnt clear the balance on the account, which 
can sometimes be an indicator of a scam. And alongside this, there were a number of weeks 
in between the two larger payments  so there werent large payments being made in very 
quick succession, which again can sometimes be the indicator of a fraud. So overall, I dont 
think, in the circumstances of this case, the payments Mr E made would have appeared so 
remarkable, that I could fairly and reasonably have expected Santander to have been 
concerned that Mr E may have been at risk.
But even if I considered Santander should have intervened and discussed the payments with 
Mr E before allowing them to be progressed, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont, Im not 
persuaded it would have made a difference. I think it more likely than not Mr E would have 
continued to make the payments. 
I should be clear that I cant know for certain how events wouldve transpired if Santander 
had handled things differently. I must reach a conclusion on the balance of probabilities and 
that conclusion must be informed by the available evidence. Having considered this 
carefully, Im not persuaded that a proportionate intervention by Santander wouldve 
prevented the scam from taking place.
 
While it is now known with the benefit of hindsight the money Mr E sent ended up with a 
fraudster, I dont think its more likely than not that a Santander employee would have been 
able to identify that Mr E may have been at risk of financial harm, by asking him questions.
If Santander had spoken to Mr E, Ive no reason to doubt that he would have told it the 
purpose of the payment was to invest. But Im persuaded its more likely than not Mr E would 
have been able to plausibly answer any questions I think I could reasonably have expected 
Santander to have asked. I think Mr E would have been able to explain, that the payment 
was for an investment, that had been recommended by his father, who had carried out his 
own research into the company and who was experienced in investing. I think Mr E would 
have been able to speak confidently and plausibly without concerning Santander that he 
might be at risk of financial harm or the victim of a scam. 
As well as this, Mr E wasnt making transactions to a third partys account, he was making 
payments to a genuine crypto exchange account in his name, that he had control of. Im 
persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Mr E is likely to have given 
would have been sufficient to reassure Santander that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Finally, Ive thought about what Santander did when Mr E reported the scam. I can see it 
contacted the receiving bank, but unfortunately no funds remained to be recovered. Given 
Mr E had moved the funds into a crypto account and then on from there, I dont think 
Santander has missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr E sadly lost. 
Its very unfortunate Mr E has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Santander should have done 
more to prevent Mr E from losing this money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman