DRN-1958352
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to not refund £880 worth of online 
banking transactions he says he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
On 18 November 2019 Mr B registered his phone with the Barclays mobile app. He went on 
to make a genuine payment of £63 to an account he held with a different bank. Mr B says 
this is the last time he genuinely used his online banking before 7 January 2020.
Mr B noticed a number of transactions that he says he didnt make or authorise when he 
logged into his account on 7 January 2020. There were several online payments made to an 
individual who Mr B says he does not know. He reported the transactions to Barclays and 
asked it to refund him the money as hed been the victim of fraud.
Barclays looked into what had happened but didnt refund Mr B. It couldnt see how 
someone else had made the transactions because it could see the secure app on Mr Bs 
phone had been used. Mr B hadnt been able to explain how someone could have accessed 
his account through the app on his phone and so it declined to refund the transactions.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with the banks answer. He 
maintained hed not made the transactions and had no idea how theyd happened. He also 
said that whoever had carried out the transactions had changed his address with the bank 
and cancelled direct debits. He felt that showed a fraudster had been accessing his account. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt it was 
more likely than not Mr B authorised the payments himself. She said, in summary:
the evidence showed Mr Bs phone was used to make the payments, as Barclays 
had said;
Mr B offered no reasonable explanation for how someone could have accessed his 
phone given it had never been out of his possession;
there was evidence to show a PINSentry device was also used during the period of 
disputed transactions, which would have also required access to Mr Bs card and 
PIN. There was no explanation as to how someone other than Mr B might have 
accessed those either.
Mr B maintained hed not been involved with the transactions and so asked that an 
ombudsman review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) are particularly relevant to Mr Bs complaint. 
They set out when a customer  and when a bank  is responsible for transactions out of an 
account. Broadly speaking, a customer will be responsible for transactions that are 
authorised whereas the bank will be responsible for unauthorised transactions.
My role here is to make a finding of fact on whether I believe its more likely than not Mr B 
did authorise the transactions he has disputed. In doing so I must first consider if the 
transactions were properly authenticated.
I can see each transaction was made through Barclays secure app with the required security 
steps being passed each time. And so the transactions have been properly authenticated.
The next question is whether Mr B consented to the payments. And to answer that I must 
consider what possible scenarios there are for how the payments were made, given the 
available evidence.
Mr B says he didnt make the payments himself. But the evidence shows that the payments 
were made through the secure mobile app and, specifically, that they were made through 
Mr Bs phone.
I can see thats the case because the same phone used to make the £63 payment on 
18 November 2019, which Mr B has confirmed as genuine, was used to make all the 
disputed payments. So Im satisfied all the disputed activity was authorised through Mr Bs 
phone.
The question then is how someone other than Mr B could have gained access to his phone 
and the app. I cant see theres a reasonable explanation for how that could have happened, 
at least without Mr Bs consent.
An unknown third party would have needed to be able to unlock both the phone and the app 
in order to make the payments. The records show this was achieved by way of fingerprint 
each time and that would of course have to be Mr Bs fingerprint. 
Mr B has said he doesnt use the fingerprint function to log in. Im not persuaded thats true. 
But even if I were to accept that as being the case, someone would then need to gain 
knowledge of Mr Bs personal security information instead. Theres no explanation for how 
someone might have done so.
Mr B told us that he was always in possession of his phone and that no one else used it. I 
believe its fair to say that most people have their phone on them most of the time and Mr B 
appears to say thats the case with his. And so its difficult to see how an unknown fraudster 
would have been able to repeatedly access Mr Bs phone without him noticing.
Im know Mr B has pointed to the cancelling of direct debits and the change of his address 
as further indicators that hes been the victim of fraud. But Im not persuaded these indicate 
that to be the case. Those points certainly arent enough to counter the significant evidence 
to show that Mr B authorised the transactions himself.
 
With all the above in mind I believe Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in declining to 
refund Mr B the transactions he identified as fraudulent.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman