DRN-1801953
The complaint
L complains that Santander UK plc acted unfairly when it issued a notice stating that it would 
close Ls business account.
L is represented by Mr T.
What happened
L had a business current account with Santander. The account was opened in 2010. 
In 2018 Santander asked L to provide it with additional information about the business. L 
says it provided information to Santander and Santander told it everything was fine. But L 
says Santander then asked for further information including copies of Ls accounts. L says it 
told Santander it would have to pay the accountant to provide this information. L says 
Santander then said it would close the account.
L says that it thinks Santander decided to close the account because L had made a 
complaint about a separate issue. L says Santander is discriminating against it because of 
this. So, L complained to Santander.
Santander looked into the complaint. It says it decided to close Ls account because the 
information L provided didnt meet its regulatory requirements. It also said that, in line with its 
terms and conditions, it had given L two months notice of its decision. It said it didnt need to 
disclose any further information about the factors that influenced its decision.
L wasnt satisfied with this response. So, Mr T complained to our service, on behalf of L. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He said that we couldnt look into complaints about 
discrimination. He thought that Santander had a right to ask L for additional information to 
satisfy its usual checks. This wasnt unreasonable. He also noted that Santander had given 
L additional time to provide the information before it decided to close the account. He 
thought this was a fair outcome. He didnt uphold the complaint.
L remained dissatisfied. L says Santander decided to close the account because Mr T, on 
behalf of L, had made a previous complaint. L also said it was the same person as L had 
complained about who investigated the subsequent complaint. L thought there was a conflict 
of interest.
Because L didnt agree with what our investigator said the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Ls account. These say:
You or we may close the account at any time by giving the other notice without 
giving any reason If we decide to do this we will give you at least 2 months notice
So, this makes clear that provided Santander gives two months notice it can close Ls 
account. The terms and conditions dont require Santander to give a reason for its decision. 
Ive looked at the letter from Santander dated 19 December 2019. In that letter Santander 
informs L that it has decided to withdraw banking facilities. It says that it is giving two 
months notice of this and the account will be closed on 19 February 2020.  
So, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with its terms and conditions.
L says it thinks this decision was made because Mr T, on behalf of L, had made a previous 
complaint. I can see that a complaint had been made in February 2019. And Santander 
issued its final response at that time. But I dont think that was the reason for Santanders 
decision to close the account. It didnt make that decision until December 2019. In its letter 
dated 16 January 2020 Santander told L it had decided to close the account because the 
information L had provided didnt meet the regulatory requirements set by it.
I can see that Santander had been trying to get information from L for some time. It sent L a 
questionnaire in November 2018. L did return the questionnaire, but the information L 
provided wasnt complete. Santander contacted L on a number of subsequent occasions to 
try to get further information. But, although L did provide some information, L didnt provide 
Santander with all the information it says it required. 
Having looked at the requests for information and the responses from L, Im satisfied 
Santander did give L several opportunities to provide the information it says it required 
before it decided to close the account. Ive also considered the information that Santander 
asked L to provide. I agree with our investigator that it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to 
request this information to satisfy its usual checks. So, I think it acted fairly and reasonably.
L says Santander has discriminated against it. L has referred to the complaint Mr T made on 
behalf of L in February 2019. As Ive stated above, I think Santander closed Ls account 
because the information L had provided didnt meet the regulatory requirements set by it.
L also says the person L had complained about is the same person who investigated the 
subsequent complaint. But I havent seen any evidence to support this. 
It is the case that I cant make a formal determination as to whether someone has been 
discriminated against  only a court can do that. But I can consider whether Santander has 
acted fairly and reasonably taking into consideration the laws, regulations and circumstances 
of each case. Having done so, Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly and reasonably when 
it gave L notice that it would close the account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman