DRN-3782034
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has 
asked her to pay charges under a hire agreement she says was taken out without her 
permission by her ex-partner. The hire agreement was taken out to acquire a car and the 
charges relate to damage on it when it was returned. 
What happened
MBFS entered into a three-year hire agreement with Miss C in March 2018. Miss C says this 
was set up fraudulently by her ex-partner. The hire agreement was for the supply of a new 
car. 
From what I can see, around a year later Miss C contacted MBFS to say her ex-partner 
signed the agreement in Miss Cs name and she was unaware of this. She says her ex-
partner knew the broker personally, and that her signature was forged. MBFS said it couldnt 
identify fraudulent activity at the time. It said the car was delivered to Miss Cs home address 
and signed for by her; documents had been emailed to Miss C; the bank account for rentals 
was in Miss Cs name; and that if Miss C thought fraud had taken place she should go to the 
police. 
MBFS notes say Miss C told it she was worried about contacting the police. MBFS 
maintained that it didnt think there was enough evidence the agreement had been taken out 
fraudulently. It looks like Miss C did report the matter to the police and she carried on 
maintaining rentals towards the agreement. Without an update on the outcome of the police 
investigation MBFS still didnt think there was enough evidence of the fraud, but it let Miss C 
know the options she had to return the car. 
When Miss C returned the car at the end of the term in 2021 MBFS let her know shed be 
liable for around £1,200 by way of damage charges. Miss C said her ex-partner damaged 
the car. So Miss C complained that firstly she didnt cause the damage, and secondly that 
the charge was too high. She also said she wanted to get the damaged fixed elsewhere, but 
she wasnt given that option. So she didnt sign the inspection report and the car was 
returned. 
MBFS sent a final response to say the inspection report said Customer Agrees with reported 
condition but not the charges  Refused To sign the handheld due to CV-19. And it also 
highlighted the report said Customer considers charges/costs too high. Damage to vehicle 
caused by other person not customer. It reviewed the charges and thought theyd been 
applied fairly. It reiterated there was insufficient evidence to support the agreement being 
taken out fraudulently. And it said it could also see a copy of Miss Cs driving licence was 
provided with the agreement which matches the signatures and contact details across 
documents.
Unhappy with the response, Miss C brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things but didnt make any recommendations to MBFS. In summary, he said he 
thought the damage charged for was outside of fair wear and tear. And he thought it likely 
the damage was caused while the car was supposed to be in Miss Cs possession. He didnt 
think MBFS were obliged to allow Miss C a further opportunity to repair the car herself. 
With regards to the allegation of fraud, our investigator didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show that. He said Miss C hadnt responded to all his or MBFS questions and 
based on what hed seen he thought it more likely Miss C had an arrangement with her ex-
partner, but the relationship subsequently broke down. 
Miss C didnt agree. She was unhappy with how MBFS had treated her. Therefore, as things 
couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was supplied under a regulated consumer hire agreement, and it sets out the 
damage charges Miss C is being asked to pay. Our service can consider complaints relating 
to these sorts of agreements. 
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear about what Miss C has gone through. It cant have 
been easy, and I appreciate the time and effort shes gone to in bringing her complaint to our 
service. Its also important to note that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also want to highlight that even though I may be sympathetic to Miss Cs situation, I need to 
consider how MBFS has acted based on what it knew, or what it ought to have known. I also 
need to think about the terms of the agreement.
I think there are two key questions I need to ask myself to help decide this complaint:
1. Is there sufficient evidence Miss C didnt take out the agreement or didnt provide 
some sort of authority for her ex-partner to take it out on her behalf?
2. Has MBFS applied the damage charges fairly?
Turning to the first question, on the one hand, Miss C says she didnt consent to the 
agreement, and that her ex-partner fraudulently took it out in her name. Miss C says this was 
done using forged signatures and via a broker her ex-partner knew. Miss C says she also 
reported the matter to the police and action fraud, which supports what shes said. 
On the other hand, MBFS has pointed out Miss Cs driving licence was supplied during the 
acquisition and signatures matched the documents. It says Miss Cs bank account was used 
to make the rentals. And that Miss C was contacted using her correct details about the 
agreement. Weve not been provided details of the outcome of the police investigation. And 
Miss C hasnt answered all of our investigators questions.
Ive weighed up the evidence that we do have. If Miss C didnt take the agreement out, I 
think she ought to have realised what had happened if not straight away then shortly 
afterwards. MBFS said it contacted her about the agreement using her contact details. And it 
says rentals were made from her bank account. So its not clear why it appears it took 
Miss C a year to raise the issue with MBFS. And she hasnt answered our investigators 
question about what prompted her to raise the complaint and whether or not she was with 
her ex-partner when the agreement was taken out. Ive also not seen evidence she complained sooner than when she did. Its also not clear why Miss C didnt follow up on her 
original complaint about the fraud she says took place when MBFS asked for further 
evidence.
Its possible that Miss C was worried about raising the complaint while she was still together 
with her ex-partner. Some of MBFS notes indicate Miss C said it wasnt a good relationship. 
So of course I can understand why Miss C may have been hesitant to pursue a complaint. 
But the longer Miss C left it to complain, the harder it wouldve been for MBFS to properly 
investigate things. 
MBFS has supplied various signed documents including the hire agreement. The signatures 
arent obviously different to the driving licence. Ive also not been told how the driving licence 
could have been supplied if Miss C knew nothing about the agreement. 
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think Miss C either consented to the 
agreement herself or provided some sort of authority to her ex-partner to take it out on her 
behalf. Theres not sufficient evidence it was done without her knowledge or authority. So I 
dont think it would be fair to direct MBFS to treat the agreement as if Miss C never agreed to 
enter into it. It also looks like the car was likely driven throughout the whole course of the 
agreement as the mileage near enough reached the cap of 30,000 when the car was handed 
back. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable for MBFS to charge Miss C in line with the 
terms of the agreement. So Ill go on to decide whether or not I think the charges have been 
fairly applied. 
MBFS is charging Miss C £1,284 in relation to the following damage it says is outside of fair 
wear and tear:
Left hand front wing scratched greater than 25mm through top-coat - £210
Left hand rear seat base cover cut over 5mm - £434
Left hand rear quarter panel scratched greater than 25mm through top-coat - £170
Right hand rear quarter panel dented with paint damage - £260
Right hand C post scratched greater than 25mm through top-coat - £210
The car was new when it was supplied, so it shouldve been free from even minor defects. 
This tells me that any damage to the car likely occurred while it was in Miss Cs possession. 
And while I appreciate she tells us the damage was caused by her ex-partner, Ive already 
explained above why I think it was Miss C who was responsible for the agreement. I also 
appreciate it doesnt look like Miss C has disputed the actual damage. But I have still 
reviewed what is being charged when deciding if I think MBFS has acted fairly. 
The agreement sets out When it is time to return your vehicle whether that is at the end of 
the period of hire or earlier (when requested to do so), you must return the vehicle in line 
with the Vehicle Return Standards. 
MBFS has supplied a copy of its return standards. And it details various standards in the hire 
agreement itself. 
So as a starting point, I dont think its unfair for MBFS to charge Miss C for damage that is 
outside of MBFS return standards. 
The relevant standards for this complaint relate to scratches on the wing, quarter panel and 
C post; a dent on the quarter panel; and a cut on the seat. 
For scratches, the returns standards say light surface scratches not through the top coat 
which can be removed by polishing or touch up are acceptable. But any chipping or scratching of paintwork thats penetrated the base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any 
kind which cant be polished out isnt acceptable. 
For dents, the returns standards say minor dents are acceptable providing theyre less than 
13mm in diameter, with a maximum of four dents for vehicles over two years old. But it also 
says dents on swage lines or folder edges, dents that penetrate the base coat, and dents on 
high profile panels i.e. bonnets and wheel arches for example arent acceptable. 
With regards to the seat base cover, the returns standards say tears, cuts, rips and holes 
through seat covers, headlining and floor covering are not acceptable. 
Ive reviewed the damage highlighted on the inspection report that has led to charges. The 
scratches to the door, quarter panel and C post all look like they have penetrated the top 
coat. And none of them look like they can be polished out very easily. So I think they are 
fairly chargeable and I dont find the charges of £210, £170 and £210 respectively are 
unreasonable. 
Ive next reviewed the photo of the seat base cover. And it shows what looks like a cut or a 
rip. So I think this is fairly chargeable as well. Its not clear if theres one or two rips, but I 
dont find the charge of £434 to replace the cover unreasonable.
Finally, looking at the dent on the quarter panel it looks like theres been damage to the 
paintwork, so I think this is fairly chargeable as well. And I dont find the charge of £260 to be 
unreasonable. 
Ive also seen that Miss C was unhappy she wasnt given the chance to repair the car 
herself, which I can understand. But Im mindful she had the chance to do that before the car 
was handed back. I cant see anything in the agreement that says she would be given 
another opportunity. And even had she been given that chance, she mightve incurred costs 
by having to arrange another inspection. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, while I know itll disappoint Miss C, I dont think 
MBFS is acting unreasonably by holding her liable for the agreement. And I dont consider 
the damage charges its applied to be unfair either. So Im not going to direct MBFS to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman