DRN-3124576
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined his application for a credit card account.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit account with Santander. Mr Rs application was declined on the 
grounds of affordability. Mr R wasnt happy about this, especially as hed already cancelled 
the other credit cards hed previously held. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Rs complaint. They confirmed that theyd declined Mr Rs 
application on the basis of affordability, but they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong 
by doing so. However, Santander did acknowledge that Mr R had been inconvenienced by 
being advised to check with a credit reference agency for reasons why his application might 
have been declined, and so they apologised and made a payment of £30 to Mr R to 
compensate him for the inconvenience hed incurred.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Rs credit account application, so they also 
didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr R to have had his credit account 
declined by Santander on the basis of affordability, especially as Mr R feels that he is in a 
better financial position now than he was when he made previous credit card applications 
which were accepted.
However, in much the same way as a customer is free to choose which service providers 
they apply to do business with, its at the discretion of a business as to whether they will 
choose to provide their services to a customer. 
In this instance, following an assessment of the information inputted by Mr R during the 
account application process, Santander made the decision not to offer the credit account 
that Mr R had applied for to him. I can understand how Mr R might be upset with 
Santanders decision here, but I cant say that Santander have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in making this decision, and this is because the declining of an account 
application is a decision that Santander are entitled to make.
Santander have explained to Mr R that his account was declined on the grounds of 
affordability. Im aware that Mr R feels that his financial position now is better than it was at 
times of previous successful credit account applications and that he would a more detailed 
explanation of why his application wasnt successful in this instance. 
However, Im satisfied that Santanders explanation that the application wasnt successful on 
the grounds of affordability does provide an adequate explanation that Mr R didnt meet the 
eligibility criteria currently required for the account to be successful. And I wouldnt expect or 
instruct Santander to provide more detailed information as to which specific criteria werent 
met by Mr R. This is because such information is commercially sensitive and if provided may 
compromise the effectiveness of Santanders application assessment process. 
Additionally, while I can appreciate that Mr R may have previously made successful credit 
account applications, those applications were assessed and approved in relation to the 
application criteria at those times and as such has no bearing on the application in question.
Mr R has also expressed dissatisfaction that the declining of his credit application by 
Santander has left him without a credit account, given that he had already cancelled his 
previously existing credit accounts before making the application. 
But there was no guarantee that the credit account application in question would be 
successful, and I dont feel that I can reasonably hold Santander accountable for Mr R 
choosing to cancel his other credit accounts before obtaining confirmation from Santander 
that his credit account application with them would be approved.
Finally, Im aware that Mr R is unhappy that Santander advised him to check with a credit 
reference agency for possible reasons why his application with them had been rejected. 
Santander have acknowledged their error in this regard and made a payment to Mr R of £30 
to compensate him for the inconvenience he incurred. This feels fair to me, and I dont feel 
that any further action is required by Santander in relation to this point.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr R here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr R was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman