DRN-1621604
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed a transaction to leave her 
bank account. She said the funds shouldnt have been released by it.
What happened
In September 2019 Ms D stayed at a hotel abroad. Following her stay Ms D contacted 
Barclays and raised her concerns about the hotel she stayed in. And said she therefore felt 
the charge for the hotel shouldnt be removed from her bank account.
Ms D noted that the hotel wasnt as she expected it to have been. Ms D explained there 
were two occasions when the water at the hotel wasnt running. One of these times was a 
full day and the other for three hours. So, she was without water, other than some bottles 
she was given by the hotel staff. And she felt she had got an eye infection from the hotel too.
Ms D also raised other problems  such as that the breakfast at the hotel was poor, as were 
the grapes, and there was only one brand of tea. She said she had expected a sauna at the 
hotel, given the star rating. And therefore she felt the service she received fell short of what it 
should have been.
On receiving Ms Ds concerns about this, Barclays raised a chargeback dispute about the 
funds taken by the hotel. It raised this under the reason that the goods or services werent 
received by Ms D. And the hotel concerned was contacted as part of the dispute.
The hotel said Ms D had stayed at their facility for the duration of her planned holiday. 
Therefore meaning she had received the services she had paid for. It also noted Ms D hadnt 
made any complaints to it during her stay, including at check out. 
Barclays responded to Ms D and let her know the hotel disputed what she had said. And 
therefore it had been unable to recover the hotel fees charged. So, it noted Ms Ds 
chargeback request under the VISA card scheme rules was unsuccessful.
Mrs D remained unhappy, and felt she was being discriminated against as a result of her 
nationality in the chargeback decision. Because Ms D remained unhappy she referred her 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. She explained 
that it was VISA, under their card scheme rules, which decided whether the chargeback 
dispute was successful or not. But, that she could look at whether Barclays had acted 
reasonably in the way it which it deal with Ms Ds request to raise a charge back.
Overall, she felt Barclays had acted reasonably. The chargeback dispute had been declined. 
And because Barclays hadnt been able to recover the funds, it couldnt refund the hotel fee 
paid to Ms D. 
Our investigator did say it was possible Barclays had processed the chargeback dispute 
under the wrong reason though. She noted it may have been more reasonable if Barclays raised the chargeback explaining that the goods Ms D received werent as described. Rather 
than the reason it had noted  that the goods hadnt been received. 
However, she didnt think this made a difference to the outcome of the chargeback under the 
scheme rules. She thought this because the hotel was used by Ms D, and there had been no 
complaints at the time of the stay. So, she felt VISA would have still refused the chargeback. 
Given this, she didnt recommend Barclays do anything more.
Our investigator also noted that Ms D had raised some concerns about a discrepancy of 
£9.03 removed from her bank account by Barclays. Ms D had said additional money had 
been taken from her account  more than the price of the holiday. Barclays had looked at 
this, and agreed it had made a mistake with the exchange rate at the time when removing 
the funds from her account. So, it refunded the discrepancy to Ms D, as above. Our 
investigator noted this was fair.
Mrs D didnt agree. She reiterated that she felt discriminated against in the chargeback being 
refused, on account of her nationality. She explained she wanted the complaint referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Barclays to do 
anything differently. 
As above, Ms D is unhappy with the way in which Barclays dealt with a chargeback dispute it 
raised on her behalf. She feels Barclays didnt act fairly, as it didnt secure a refund of the 
hotel bill she paid. Ive therefore needed to think about whether Barclays acted reasonably in 
the way it dealt with the chargeback dispute, and in not pursuing a refund any further than it 
did.
Having thought carefully about this, Im satisfied Barclays did raise a chargeback and acted 
reasonably in explaining to Ms D this was unsuccessful. So, I dont think it needs to do 
anything more going forward.
Its important to explain it isnt Barclays that makes the rules on chargeback disputes. 
Rather, the card scheme that provides the card paid with does. So, in this case, that would 
be VISA. Barclays just need to comply with these rules. It isnt a consumer right for a 
chargeback to be raised. But, Barclays did raise a dispute when it received Ms Ds concerns 
about her hotel. Given Ms D had said she paid for a hotel and didnt receive the service she 
expected, Im satisfied it was fair for Barclays to take the matter forward and raise a dispute.
Barclays raised the chargeback dispute under the VISA card scheme code for goods or 
services not being received. I agree with our investigator that this may have been the wrong 
code for Barclays to raise the dispute under. Ms D was saying she did receive services from 
the hotel, but these werent to the standard she expected. So, she had a potential argument 
that the goods werent as described  which is a separate card scheme rule. However, I 
dont think the code the dispute was raised under made a difference to the overall outcome 
of the chargeback dispute in this case. So, Im satisfied Barclays didnt negatively impact the 
decision made. 
The reason I say this is because Im satisfied its most likely the merchant (VISA) would still 
have made the same decision to reject the chargeback request. It contacted the hotel, and the hotel responded to it. The hotel explained Ms D had used the hotel, and thats what it 
charged for. It also noted Ms D had raised no complaints or concerns about the hotel during 
her stay. So, ultimately the hotel didnt consider anything had gone wrong with the services it 
provided. 
Ive seen the hotel bill charged. And there is no dispute that Ms D did stay there. I havent 
seen any firm evidence from Ms D to dispute what the hotel said. Or to show that the 
services Ms D received were different from what was advertised. Given this response from 
the hotel, the chargeback request was unsuccessful with VISA. And it rejected the 
chargeback. As the hotels response covered both the receipt of services and whether any 
complaints were made about the quality of them, Im satisfied the card scheme response 
would have been the same, especially as the quality of goods can be subjective. It means 
different things to different people.  
Barclays communicated this to Ms D as I would have expected to. As above, it isnt Barclays 
that makes the card scheme rules, or the decision about whether a chargeback is 
successful. But I can say that Barclays accurately communicated the lack of success to Ms 
D, as I would have expected it to.
Ms D has also raised concerns about the amount debited from her account for the hotel bill. 
Barclays has confirmed it took £9.03 too much  based on the exchange rate. It returned 
these funds on this being drawn to its attention. The figure is no longer in dispute, so I 
havent considered it further. But, I have thought about whether Barclays acted fairly in 
refunding the money to Ms D on concerns being raised. And it did. If it made a mistake with 
the amount taken from Ms Ds account, then it should remedy it. And this is what it did here. 
So, Im not requiring Barclays to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied the £9.03 refunded to Ms D is fair. And I dont require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, to do anything more in respect of the chargeback dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman