The complaint
Mrs S says S.D. Taylor Limited (trading as Loans at Home - ("LAH") lent to her irresponsibly. 
Mrs S's representative also says Mrs S has been taken advantage of, as she is unable to 
read or write and needs help making financial decisions.
What happened
Mrs S had 81 loans with LAH between April 2011 and April 2019. An adjudicator considered 
Mrs S's complaint about these loans and thought it should be largely upheld. The adjudicator 
didn't think LAH should've given Mrs S loans 6 to 81. LAH didn't respond to the adjudicator, 
so Mrs S's complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
DRN-1724371Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint.
I've not looked closely at the individual affordability of each loan in Mrs S's case. That's 
because I don't need to do this to reach a fair outcome. Ive focused instead on the overall 
pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which LAH should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so LAH should have realised that it shouldn't have provided any 
further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point LAH ought to have realised Mrs S was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs S had taken out six loans within five months. Loans 4, 5 and 6 were 
taken out on the same day loans 1, 2 and 3 were repaid - and Mrs S borrowed the 
same amount or more. LAH ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs S 
was having to borrow due to a systemic and ongoing need and as a result her 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
From loan 6 onwards Mrs S was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one. In fact, LAH has said virtually all of Mrs S's loan were settled 
by re-lending, which given how many loans Mrs S had (81, over eight years - not 
much less than one a month on average) leads to me conclude it's likely Mrs S was 
reborrowing by necessity, rather than by choice and this isn't sustainable.
Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed LAH. Loan 81 was 
taken out more than eight years after Mrs S's first. And it was by far the largest 
individual loan. Mrs S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to LAH over an extended period.
I think that Mrs S lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an excessive period; and
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 81 (loan 6 being the loan dated 30 
November 2011 and then all the subsequent loans) and LAH must put things right.
I'd like to add that I've seen and considered the additional evidence provided by Mrs S's 
representative. As I'm upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 81, I've not commented on 
this evidence as I've upheld all the loans within the timeframe covered by the evidence, for 
the reasons I've given above.
Putting things rightLAH should refund the interest and charges Mrs S paid on loans 6 to 81. LAH should add 
interest at 8% simple per year*, form when Mrs S paid the interest and charges, until the 
date of settlement. LAH should also remove loans 6 to 81 from Mrs S's credit file.
I understand some of these loans may not have been settled. For any loan not settled, 
instead of the above, LAH should remove all interest and charges applied from the outset 
and treat any payments made as if they were payments towards the principal. If LAH still 
owns the outstanding loans, it can then deduct the unpaid principal from the net redress. The 
important thing is that Mrs S shouldn't pay any more than she borrowed. If LAH does not 
own the debts and can't buy them back, it should work with the debt owner to achieve the 
result set out here. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs S's complaint in part. S.D. Taylor Limited must 
put things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman