DRN-3839873
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) 
decision to avoid (treat it as though it never existed) their home buildings insurance policy.
I will refer to Mrs B throughout my decision for ease of reading.  
All references to Advantage include its agents.
What happened
Mrs B experienced some issues when obtaining a quote for insurance online. She called the 
administrator. It then arranged for the policy to be set up. Mrs B contacted the administrator 
again, later in the policy year, about some damage in her home. But due to the relatively 
small cost involved in the repairs decided not to make a claim. 
A review of Mrs Bs claim history took place following this contact. This revealed several 
claims she hadnt disclosed when the policy was taken out. Advantage subsequently 
avoided the policy and returned Mrs Bs premium. 
Mrs B didnt think this was fair. She says it wasnt made clear that the claims in question had 
to be declared. Mrs B explained that some claims she didnt go ahead with, and others were 
due to damage caused by contractors acting for an insurer. She explains that she obtained 
quotes that included these claims and also without. Mrs B says there was little difference 
between the quotes. She doesnt think it makes sense that she would deliberately risk 
providing incorrect information in these circumstances. 
Advantage didnt change its decision, so Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought Advantage had acted fairly to avoid the 
policy due to Mrs Bs misrepresentation of her claims history.   
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mrs B has a separate complaint against her policy administrator. Im not considering this 
here. My remit is to consider Advantages decision as Mrs Bs insurer to avoid her policy.  
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage says Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she told it she had made no claims over the past five years. The business says it thinks this 
was a careless misrepresentation. And under CIDRA it is able to cancel the policy and avoid 
it from inception. 
Advantage provided a screenshot of the questions Mrs B was asked when she applied for 
her policy online. This says:
How many years of no claims discount do you have for buildings insurance?
And:
How many years of no claims discount do you have for contents insurance?
Mrs B selected five years no claims for each question. A help box is included for each of 
these questions. This says:
You must include any incidents that resulted in damage to property, items being stolen or 
injury to other people. You should include these incidents whether or not you made a claim, 
and whether or not you were paid for that claim. Examples of incidents we need to know 
about are any claim, burglary, vandalism, fire, water, or storm damage.
Advantage has shown that Mrs B had made four claims within the period requested - that 
she hadnt disclosed. This includes:
Accidental damage in May 2018 - £0 paid. 
Accidental damage in June 2018 - £2,408.71 paid.
Accidental damage in December 2019 - £2,876 paid. 
Escape of water in May 2020 - £0 paid. 
I acknowledge Mrs Bs comments that she didnt continue with a claim in all cases, and that 
some of the damage had been caused by contractors assigned by insurers. But I do think 
the question was clear. Based on this I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care when 
answering. This meant Advantage offered a policy based on incorrect information provided 
by Mrs B.
I note Mrs Bs comments that she called Advantage several times to discuss claims that 
required context, prior to agreeing a policy with Advantage. Ive listened to the call 
recordings provided by Advantages agent. This includes the call when she agreed to take 
the policy. There was no discussion around claims in any of the recorded calls. We asked 
Advantage for recordings of the earlier calls Mrs B says she made between 24 and 30 June 2020. It provided a screenshot to show the call records it had been able to identify. This 
didnt include any of the earlier calls Mrs B referenced. 
I dont dispute Mrs Bs recollection. But I dont have any evidence to support that she made 
Advantage aware of the claims in question. 
Ive also looked at the policy documentation Mrs B was sent when she took out her policy. 
The front page of the Welcome letter says Mrs B should read the information carefully and if 
any of the details arent right to tell us straightaway. 
The document entitled Your statement of insurance includes a section with the heading 
Incident History. This says:
Have you, or anyone living at the property, made any home claims or suffered any losses in 
the last five years? Incident history: None disclosed. 
   
Based on this I think Mrs B did make a qualifying misrepresentation. I think its reasonable 
that Advantage considered this to be careless, when considering her explanation why she 
answered in the way she did. 
In these circumstances CIDRA says:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms, 
the insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all claims but must return the premiums paid.
Advantage has shown from its underwriting criteria that it wouldnt have offered cover to Mrs 
B had she disclosed an accurate claims history. This means it acted fairly when avoiding the 
policy and in refunding the premiums paid.
In her view our investigator says Mrs Bs misrepresentation was likely to have been 
deliberate/reckless. I advised both Advantage and Mrs B that although I didnt uphold this 
complaint, I thought the misrepresentation was careless, which is different to what our 
investigator said. Because of this I asked both parties if they had any further comments to 
make prior to issuing my decision. 
Advantage reconfirmed that it had treated Mrs Bs misrepresentation as careless. Mrs B 
asked our investigator to clarify a number of points for her. Our investigator confirmed that I 
would consider all the evidence including her further emails and phone contact, which I 
have.  
Having considered all of this I dont think Advantage treated Mrs B unfairly when avoiding 
her policy in line with the CIDRA rules. It considered the misrepresentation to be careless 
which I think is fair. And it refunded the premiums Mrs B paid. So, I cant reasonably ask 
Advantage to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman