DRN-4109494
The complaint
Mr P complains that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on 
a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P holds a legal expenses insurance policy with Alwyn. He made a claim on the policy due 
to a dispute with a third party which had arisen around access to a property he owns. 
Alwyn appointed a solicitor from its panel (who Ill refer to as S) to represent Mr P. After 
reviewing available information, S concluded Mr Ps claim didnt have reasonable prospects 
of success. Alwyn withdrew cover and declined to fund any further legal costs on the basis of 
S' advice.
Mr P approached a different solicitor privately, who wrote to the third party. The access issue 
was resolved following that letter.  
Mr P complained to Alwyn about its decision to withdraw cover from his claim. When Alwyn 
rejected his complaint, he referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt think Alwyn had 
done anything wrong. Mr P didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point in considering whether Alwyn acted fairly when it withdrew cover for Mr Ps 
claim is to look at the relevant condition of the policy. This says that cover will be provided as 
long as the claim always has reasonable prospects of success which must be present 
throughout the duration of your claim.
Reasonable prospects of success are defined in the policy as:
There must always be more than a 50% chance that you will:
a) recover any losses or damages;
b) successfully defend a claim or prosecution;
c) succeed in reducing a sentence, penalty or a fine if you plead guilty in a criminal
prosecution;
d) succeed in enforcing a judgment or obtaining a legal remedy which we have agreed
to; or
e) make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal.
In all cases we or a suitably qualified expert acting on our behalf will assess whether
reasonable prospects of success exist. This assessment will also take into account
whether a reasonable person would wish to pursue such a dispute if this insurance was
not in force.
Conditions such as these which require claims to have reasonable prospects of success 
common on legal expenses insurance policies.
Our general approach to complaints about claims which have been declined based on these 
types of conditions is that its typically fair for an insurer to rely on a detailed, reasoned 
opinion provided by a properly qualified person, unless there are obvious factual errors 
within the assessment which would be obvious to a layperson. Our services jurisdiction 
doesnt extend to cover the actions of solicitors, and Im not in a position to say whether or 
not the legal opinion and conclusions reached are right or wrong.
When it decided to withdraw cover for Mr Ps claim, Alwyn referred to the legal advice it was 
provided by S. Ive had the opportunity to review this. I know that Mr P disagrees with the 
conclusions reached, but I havent identified any serious factual errors within the 
assessment. 
Im satisfied that S assessment gives reasons why Mr Ps claim isnt considered to have 
reasonable prospects of success and refers to the evidence in making that assessment. I 
think it was fair for Alwyn to rely on this advice as being properly reasoned and having been 
provided by a properly qualified person. Theres nothing in the assessment which leads me 
to conclude that Alwyn should have disregarded it.
Mr P observes that when he appointed solicitors directly, they wrote to the third party and the 
access issue was then resolved. Its suggested that on the basis that one letter was enough 
to satisfactorily resolve the issue, Mr Ps claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
It's important to say that the assessment of the prospects of success concluded that Mr Ps 
case had a less than 50% likelihood of success  not that there were no prospects of 
success at all. Just because Mr P successfully resolved the issue through correspondence 
from his solicitor, this doesnt mean the case had a greater than 50% chance of success 
when S made its assessment. I also think its relevant that in correspondence from Mr Ps 
solicitors about his insurance claim with Alwyn, the solicitors dont make mention of the 
prospects of success of his original case.
Mr Ps solicitors also suggested that S, with funding from Alwyn, could have sent a letter as 
they did, which would have resolved the access issue. I dont agree with this. S had reached 
a reasoned conclusion that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. As such, 
insurance cover, and further funding, for the claim ceased. Mr Ps decision to continue 
privately funding the legal action, including this letter, arent relevant to that determination
I dont think it would be reasonable to have expected Alwyn to fund such correspondence 
when it was in receipt of an assessment which said the claim was unlikely to be successful. 
If it did so, it would be acting outside of the policy terms and conditions. It would also raise 
the question of what further action, if any, it would need to fund if the letter hadnt resolved 
the issue. The correspondence would, I think, have needed to refer to taking further action if 
the third party didnt resolve matters, which would have essentially been meaningless if no 
further funding was to be provided by Alwyn.
Mr P has also said that S assessment didnt address all of the possible actions which could 
have been taken against the third party. As Ive said previously, Im unable to comment on 
the legal advice or actions taken by S, but as Ive outlined above, I do think it was 
reasonable for Alwyn to rely on the advice it received. I wouldnt expect it to question the 
advice it had received, on the basis that it gave reasons for the conclusions reached. It 
wouldnt be for Alwyn to question the possible legal arguments which could be made to allow 
access to the property.
Mr P also believes that in light of his own solicitors comments and actions that an independent review of the prospects of success should be carried out by new legal 
professionals. I think that might be a reasonable position, if there were an assessment or 
other evidence which specifically stated the case had reasonable prospects of success  as 
Ive outlined, I havent seen such evidence. On the basis that I dont have competing 
assessments giving different conclusions, I dont think its reasonable to ask for an 
independent review to be carried out.
Im also aware that Mr P has suggested that the cover provided by the policy is inappropriate 
or inadequate. The complaint Im considering here is about the cover for the claim Mr P 
submitted. Any concerns about the sale of the policy or level of cover provided by it generally 
are a separate matter.
For the reasons outlined above, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Alwyn to rely on the 
opinion of the solicitor when they concluded that Mr Ps claim against the third party didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success. On the basis of that opinion, Alwyn withdrew cover 
for the claim. I cant conclude Alwyn acted unfairly.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman