DRN-3696705
The complaint
A representative of Mr Ws estate has complained HSBC UK Bank plc hasnt refunded 
money they believe was taken from Mr Ws account without his authorisation.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr Ws current account was almost emptied over the course of two days 
by a series of payments to two online retailers. Most of those payments were to a retailer I 
will call H, but there was also one payment to a different retailer, which I will call S. The full 
details of these payments were set out in our investigators view, so I see no need to repeat 
those details here. Mr W contacted HSBC in January 2020 to query these payments. Mr W 
wasnt able to give any explanation as to how these payments might have happened, but did 
confirm he had previously made a payment to H  although he had been unhappy with the 
goods he then received.
HSBC considered Mr Ws concerns, but was not willing to refund the payments that had 
been made. HSBC said that it had previously refunded payments made to H with a different 
debit card but would not continue to refund payments when there was no clear point of 
compromise to explain how a fraudster might be getting hold of Mr Ws card details.
Mr W passed away in April 2020, and his brother  Mr W2, who is acting on behalf of Mr Ws 
estate  referred his concerns about the disputed payments to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened but felt that the inconsistencies in Mr Ws 
accounts of what had happened, and the lack of any clear explanation for how another party 
might have got hold of Mr Ws card details, meant it was more likely that Mr W did authorise 
the disputed payments or allow them to be made.
Mr W2 disagreed, so because no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred 
to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 16 August 2022. Mr W2 confirmed that he 
agreed with my findings. HSBC has said it does not agree, specifically it has commented 
that it still believes these payments were most likely made with Mr Ws knowledge, and that 
it did ask for evidence from the retailers but none was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Its clear from looking at Mr Ws bank statements, and from the history of his interactions 
with HSBC, that there have been a number of disputed or suspicious payments on his 
account over an extended period of time. Since June 2019 Mr W2 has identified over 30 
payments to various online retailers that he says were not made by Mr W. Around half of 
these payments had already been refunded to Mr W by HSBC under previous fraud claims.
Of the remaining disputed payments, there is one particular block of transactions  on the 16 
and 17 December 2019  that Mr W himself raised as suspicious with HSBC. The other 
payments Mr W2 is disputing are to different retailers over the previous six months or so, but 
we have no confirmation from Mr W that these were not made either by him or with his 
permission. And as Mr W has now sadly passed away, we wont be able to confirm with him 
whether he did or did not consider those other transactions to be fraudulent. So with this in 
mind, and given that only the payments on 16 and 17 December have been considered by 
HSBC as part of this complaint, I am also going to focus only on those specific payments 
that we know Mr W felt were fraudulent.
Ive though carefully about what both sides have said here regarding these payments. 
Specifically, HSBC has said:
-Mr W and his representatives have been inconsistent in their explanations of what 
payments Mr W may or may not have authorized
-Mr W raised concerns about payments made using details from four different debit 
cards
-No reasonable explanation had been given as to how a fraudster could have 
repeatedly got hold of Mr Ws card details, and Mr W and his representatives have 
been inconsistent in their recollections of who may have had access to his home (ie. 
Whether Mr W had a carer or not)
-Mr W has confirmed he did make a legitimate payment to H, and so he has a pre-
existing relationship with this retailer
Mr W and his representatives have said:
-Mr W made one payment to H to buy a necklace for a friend of his  this has been 
described by Mr W and his relatives as being in either August or December 2019 and 
they have said the necklace was poor quality and/or not as described
-Mr W did not have an official carer but a neighbor regularly came in to help him out  
this neighbor may be the same person that Mr W bought the necklace for in the 
legitimate payment to H 
-Mr W didnt have a mobile phone or computer and didnt have access to the internet, 
he was over 90 years old and essentially housebound
-The pattern of transactions on Mr Ws account, and the repeated previous claims for 
card fraud, should have alerted HSBC to the fact that something untoward may have 
been happening, so it should have stopped the payments to H and S on 16 and 17 
December 
After carefully considering what wed already been given regarding this complaint, I asked 
HSBC for some more evidence to show exactly what was happening around the payments 
that are in dispute. However, HSBC has been unable to provide us with all of the evidence I 
requested. Specifically, it has been unable to show which phone number the one time 
payment codes were sent to which were used to authenticate the payments that are in 
dispute here. HSBC has also been unable to provide any transaction reports further back 
than October 2019, which might have shown IP addresses or other information about how 
some of the earlier payments were made  specifically the first payment to H, which it seems 
likely is the one that Mr W has said is a legitimate payment.And the evidence I have seen causes me some concern. Specifically, the transaction report 
we do have shows IP addresses for the payments that were made to H and S. The IP 
addresses on this report are linked to a company that provides VPN services (virtual private 
network.) This isnt something that I would think it likely an elderly man would use, 
particularly when several of his family members have confirmed in conversations with HSBC 
that he did not have a computer or any internet access at his home. To me, this opens up 
the possibility that somebody else was making these payments either with or without Mr Ws 
knowledge.
And listening to Mr Ws conversation with HSBC, I think its clear that he had no idea these 
payments were going to be made. Theres nothing in the calls Ive listened to that makes me 
think Mr W was trying to deceive HSBC in any way, he sounded genuinely confused and 
distressed by the payments. I appreciate that HSBC says no clear explanation has been 
given for how someone could have repeatedly got Mr Ws card details. But I think its clear 
from what Mr W and his relatives said when they spoke to HSBC that he did have a 
neighbour regularly visiting his home. And anyone who had access to his home would not 
find it difficult to either write down or photograph his card details, or even to take his card for 
a short period given that his statements suggest he did most of his banking via cheque or on 
the phone.
I also note that HSBC hasnt obtained any information from the retailers in question to 
suggest that Mr W did make the payments, such as delivery information or details of any 
account held with those retailers. And while I appreciate that Mr Ws account of what might 
have happened in that initial call with HSBC had some inconsistencies, I think we have to 
bear in mind Mr Ws age and distressed state may have contributed to any confusion.
With all this in mind, Im not currently satisfied that Ive seen enough to show Mr W was 
responsible for or consented to the disputed payments from 16 and 17 December 2019, and 
it follows that I dont think it is reasonable for HSC to have held him liable for those.
I appreciate that HSBC feels its possible Mr W was either present when the transactions 
were made by a third party, or at least aware they were being made. HSBC has said it thinks 
this is probably how the genuine transaction to H was also made. But Ive not seen any 
evidence to support that this is what actually happened here. Mr W told HSBC that the initial 
legitimate payment was made over the phone, and the evidence I have seen suggests that 
Mr W was unaware of the other transactions. It also seems unlikely that he would willingly 
have agreed for his bank account to be emptied of over £15,000 in such a short space of 
time.
I acknowledge that HSBC did try to get evidence from the retailers but that nothing was 
forthcoming. But given the lack of evidence from the retailers, and that the evidence I have 
seen does not to me suggest that Mr W was aware of these payments, I remain satisfied that 
its not fair or reasonable to conclude that he either made the payments himself or consented 
to them being made. So as set out in my provisional decision, I find that it was not 
reasonable for HSBC to hold Mr W liable for these payments.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
- Refunding to Mr Ws estate the payments made to H and S on 16 and 17 December 
2019.
- Pay Mr Ws estate 8% simple interest* on those payments from the date they were made until the date of settlement
*If HSBC considers that its required by HMRC to deduct tax from this interest it should tell 
Mr Ws estate how much it has taken off. HSBC should also give Mr Ws estate a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman