DRN-4240796
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt honour cheques he paid in because they 
hadnt correctly recorded his signature on their systems.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr H opened a new account with Lloyds. A few months later, in October 2021, 
Mr H tried to make a payment by cheque. But Lloyds didnt honour the cheque because they 
didnt hold a copy of Mr Hs signature. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr H visited a Lloyds branch and provided a copy of his signature to be 
recorded on Lloyds systems. But Lloyds didnt record Mr Hs signature on their systems as 
they should have done. And this meant that when Mr H submitted a further cheque, this 
cheque wasnt honoured by Lloyds either  because they didnt have a copy of Mr Hs 
signature on file. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr H and apologised for not recording the signature that hed provided 
in branch as they should have done. Lloyds also included a signature mandate form for Mr H 
to complete and returned, which corrected the error that theyd made, and they made a 
payment of £100 to Mr H for any upset or inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr H wasnt 
satisfied with Lloyds response and felt that a larger award of compensation was merited. So, 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Lloyds 
issued to Mr Hs complaint  including correcting the signature error and the payment of 
£100 compensation  already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with our investigator, Mr H has said that he feels that this service is 
absolving Lloyds of doing anything wrong. But Lloyds have themselves admitted that they 
made an error here in not recording Mr Hs signature on their systems when he provided it. 
And so, it isnt the case that the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator 
attempted to absolve Lloyds of making any mistake here. Rather, our investigator has said 
that they felt that Lloyds actions in response to the mistake, that they accepted they had 
made, already represented a fair resolution to that mistake.  
It's important to confirm here that this service isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt the role 
of this service to punish or fine a business for any mistakes that they may have made. 
Instead, the role of this service is to assess the impact of a mistake on a complainant party 
and, if its felt necessary, to instruct the business to undertake corrective action so that the 
complainant is returned, as much as reasonably possible, to the position they should have 
been in, had the error never occurred.
In this instance, Mr H had opened the Lloyds account in question online, which meant that 
no signature was captured by Lloyds at the point of opening. And while Mr H has explained 
that he also held another account with Lloyds where a copy of his signature should have 
been recorded, this account was moved to Lloyds from another provider via a current 
account switch  which wouldnt include a copy of Mr Hs signature being provided to Lloyds 
from the originating bank.
As such, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt hold a copy of Mr Hs signature when the first cheque 
wasnt honoured by them in October 2021. And this meant that it was always going to be the 
case that Mr H needed to provide a copy of his signature to Lloyds. 
However, as Lloyds have acknowledged, when Mr H provided his signature to them in 
branch in October 2021, this should have been recorded on their systems, but wasnt. And 
so, Im in agreement with Lloyds that, when Mr Hs second cheque wasnt honoured 
because his signature hadnt been correctly recorded by them, that Mr H did incur a degree 
of inconvenience and frustration that he reasonably shouldnt have.
Lloyds apologised to Mr H for this and made a payment of £100 to him. And, while I 
appreciate that Mr H doesnt agree, upon consideration, I feel that this £100 payment is a fair 
compensation amount for the trouble and upset that Mr H incurred here. And one reason I 
say this is because this service assesses awards of compensation for trouble and upset 
based on the impact to the complainant that actually took place. 
In this instance, the cheque in question was a deposit to a new savings account that Mr H 
had opened with another financial institution. As such, the impact on Mr H here was that he 
had to complete the transfer to the new savings account online, having received the money 
from the cheque back into his Lloyds account, and he also had to resubmit his signature to 
Lloyds. This was undoubtedly inconvenient and frustrating for Mr H. But I feel that it was an 
impact on him that the payment of £100 from Lloyds has already fairly compensated him for.
Mr H has noted that the cheque could have been a deposit for a property purchase, in which 
case the impact on him would have been potentially greater. But the cheque wasnt for a 
deposit for a property purchase. And, as explained above, this service assesses the fairness 
of compensation awards based on the actual impact that occurred. 
All of which means that I feel that the response that Lloyds issued to Mr Hs complaint  
including the apology and the form to enable the signature error to be corrected, and the 
payment of £100 compensation to Mr H  already represents a fair outcome to what 
happened here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Lloyds to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting. But I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman