DRN-3275181
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to tell them that 
they could have paid a lower interest rate on their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B want 
compensation for this.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were re-mortgaging their property. They used a financial intermediary (a 
broker) to help them find a mortgage that suited them.
The broker submitted an application to NatWest, but the bank said Mr and Mrs B hadnt met 
its affordability criteria for the amount they wanted. But it said it would offer a mortgage of a 
few thousand pounds less.
Mr and Mrs B accepted that offer and the mortgage completed. Mr and Mrs B then realised 
that they were paying an interest related to someone borrowing more than 60% of the value 
of their home. That had been the situation before NatWest said it would only lend a lower 
amount  on the lower figure they were borrowing just under 60% of the value. That meant 
they qualified for a mortgage at a slightly lower interest rate, but the offer they received and 
accepted was on the basis of the higher rate.
Mr and Mrs B complained to NatWest about this, saying that they believe NatWest should 
have pointed out that they qualified for the lower rate. They think NatWest should refund the 
difference theyll have to pay over the five years their interest rate is fixed for as a lump sum.
NatWest responded to say it hadnt done anything wrong. They said it was up to Mr and Mrs 
Bs broker to make sure the mortgage product being applied for best suited Mr and Mrs B, as 
that was what they were paying him or her for. It wont change the interest rate or refund any 
money.
Mr and Mrs B dont think thats fair, as they think NatWest is profiting from a genuine mistake 
made by the broker. They also think NatWest should have systems in place to ensure 
customers dont overpay unnecessarily.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that as Mr and Mrs B 
had used a broker to arrange the mortgage, the responsibility for requesting the mortgage 
that best suited Mr and Mrs B lay with the broker. So he didnt think NatWest need do 
anything.
Mr and Mrs B have asked that an ombudsman decide this complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. Nor 
am I going to comment on every point Mr and Mrs B made: instead Ill concentrate on the 
main issue, which is the interest rate theyre paying to the end of their fixed term.
There are many different mortgage products available to borrowers. Often interest rates 
change depending upon a variety of factors  which can include things like fees, income 
multipliers and the % of a property value thats being borrowed. Its a reason why many 
people choose to use a broker who can search for the mortgage that best suits someone. 
When a customer decides to use a broker to help them make a mortgage application, any 
responsibility for advice or the correct product recommendation lies with the broker. In effect, 
NatWests responsibility is to make sure it appraises an application and (if appropriate) 
makes a mortgage offer in line with the information it receives from the broker.
As far as I can see thats what NatWest did. It assessed the initial application and said it 
wouldnt lend Mr and Mrs B as much as the broker said they wanted. But it did say it would 
lend a little less. Id expect the broker to submit a new product request if the lower amount 
meant a different and more advantageous interest rate then became available.
Im afraid I dont think NatWest made errors here. It simply set up the mortgage in 
accordance with the application it received. It wasnt recommending a mortgage product to 
Mr and Mrs B. So it had no responsibility to make sure they got the cheapest deal available. 
That means I cant ask it to comply with Mr and Mrs Bs request for a refund of any extra 
interest they may pay. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman