DRN-3418332
The complaint
Mr F and Miss W complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages wouldnt offer them a new interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr F and Miss W had a mortgage with Precise. In around 2017, their initial fixed rate came 
to an end and they reverted to a variable rate.
Several times over the next few years, Mr F and Miss W asked Precise for a new rate, only 
to be told that none was available to them. Precise suggested they take independent 
mortgage advice about what might be available to them in the market  whether with a new 
lender, or by taking out a new mortgage to replace this one with Precise. But it said it 
couldnt offer them a new rate on their existing mortgage. Mr F and Miss W first complained 
about this in 2017, and again in 2019.
Mr F and Miss W did consult an independent mortgage adviser in 2019, and began the 
process of moving their mortgage elsewhere. They also complained again. In response to 
their complaint, Precise said that it had recently begun offering new interest rates to existing 
customers and that Mr F and Miss W would be eligible for a new rate. However, by then 
Mr F and Miss W were already in the process of going elsewhere. 
Mr F and Miss W brought their complaint to us. They said it wasnt fair that no rates were 
made available to them when they asked, from 2017 onwards, and that they ended up 
having to go elsewhere to obtain a better deal on their mortgage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr F and Miss W asked for 
an ombudsman to review it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr F and Miss W took out their mortgage in 2015, they took a two year fixed rate. 
Their mortgage offer said that at the end of the fixed rate period, the mortgage would revert 
to a variable rate which would track 4.43% above the LIBOR benchmark rate.
In 2017, when their fixed rate came to an end, Mr F and Miss W asked for a new rate, but 
Precise told them none was available. Mr F and Miss W complained about that at the time, 
but didnt bring their complaint to us  as complaints must be brought to us within six 
months, that means (as our investigator explained), this part of the complaint is out of time.
Mr F and Miss W asked again for a new rate several times, most recently in 2019. Precise 
continued to tell them no new rates were available, until 2019 when they had begun the 
process of moving elsewhere.
The terms and conditions of Mr F and Miss Ws mortgage say that it would move to the 
variable rate once the fixed rate expires  and this is what did happen. Theres nothing in the 
mortgage terms and conditions that say a new fixed rate will be available, or that Precise has 
to offer one. Therefore Mr F and Miss Ws mortgage has operated as it should have done.
Theres nothing in the rules of mortgage regulation that requires a lender to make new rates 
available either. Many lenders do make new rates available to existing customers  but 
theres no rules that say they have to, and some lenders dont do this. 
So while I can understand  given what other lenders do  why Mr F and Miss W wanted or 
expected Precise to make a new rate available, it wasnt obliged to do so.
Having not offered new rates to existing customers, Precise decided to explore doing so 
from 2016 onwards. It initially did so via a small scale pilot, with limited numbers of 
customers, while it worked through various options.
Mr F and Miss W  like the vast majority of Precises customers  were not included in this 
pilot scheme. I dont think that was unfair. They werent being treated any differently to most 
other customers. There was no obligation to offer them a rate. And its reasonable for a firm 
considering changing how it operates its business to test and pilot options before making 
them generally available  and its in the nature of a pilot scheme that most customers wont 
be included in it.
I also note that there was nothing stopping Mr F and Miss W moving their mortgage to 
another lender if they wanted a better rate. They did this in 2019  Mr F has said they didnt 
do so earlier because they were concerned about the costs of doing so. And I can 
understand why they were worried about that. But its not necessary to use a broker to move 
a mortgage  many lenders (though not Precise) accept direct applications. And in any case 
many brokers dont charge their customers, but get paid through commission from lenders. 
Ultimately, it was for Mr F and Miss W to decide whether the savings of moving elsewhere 
outweighed the costs. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any barrier to them 
doing so, either because of anything Precise did, or because of anything about their 
circumstances. Even if they couldnt get a rate with Precise, Mr F and Miss W were able to 
shop around to see whether there was anything better for them in the market. If, taking into 
account the costs of doing so, they decided there wasnt, that doesnt mean that Precise had 
to offer them a better deal than their existing mortgage.
In 2019, Precise ended the pilot and began to offer new rates to customers generally  
subject to eligibility criteria. But new rates were only available by going through a broker; it 
didnt offer new rates direct to existing customers.
When Mr F and Miss W asked again about a rate, Precise initially said they werent eligible 
for one. But when they complained, it took another look at their situation and decided that it 
would make a rate available to them, as an exception, though they would need to apply 
through a broker. Mr F and Miss W didnt take this up as by then they were in the process of 
moving to another lender.
I think Precise acted fairly here. Its entitled to have eligibility criteria for its new rates  which 
means some customers will be eligible and others wont. Mr F and Miss W werent eligible 
for a rate because of their circumstances; other customers with similar characteristics would 
also have been ineligible. But, having reviewed the circumstances, Precise agreed to make 
an exception for Mr F and Miss W. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Precise to require an application to be made through a 
broker. Some lenders, including Precise, are intermediary only lenders  which means that they dont accept applications from customers direct. This is a legitimate business model and 
while Mr F says its not fair because using a broker carries an extra cost, as Ive said not all 
brokers charge their customers for their services. 
Taking all that into account, I dont think Precise has acted unfairly here. Mr F and Miss Ws 
mortgage operated as it should have done  with an initial two year fixed rate followed by a 
variable rate. Precise didnt make new rates available to existing customers until 2019; once 
it did so, it agreed to give one to Mr F and Miss W even though they werent eligible, 
provided they applied in the same manner as any other customer would have to. And if Mr F 
and Miss W werent happy with that, there was nothing stopping them from shopping around 
to see whether another lender could offer them a better deal  as in fact they did. I dont 
therefore think theres any basis for me to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12OK July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman