DRN-1673125
 
Complaint
Miss W says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Miss W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Miss W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her repayments in case she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
And under data protection rules, Nationwide were required to dispose of Miss Ws data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. So understandably, Nationwide dont still have the 
original documents from the time. And I think this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably 
expect them to be able to produce such documents now.
Miss W has provided her mortgage application, which had a section for PPI. It said it was 
something Nationwide recommended in general  this was only a recommendation, not a 
requirement. Then it offered Miss W a clear choice about whether shed like to take PPI or 
turn it down. At that point, she didnt make a decision either way. But by the time she got her 
mortgage offer, Nationwide were arranging a policy for her, so it seems plausible that when 
she did then choose, her choice was to take a policy.
Miss W says she was led to believe that she had to have PPI. Shes pointed to her mortgage 
leaflet. It listed PPI as one of many potential costs of buying a home  a list which included 
other optional costs like contents insurance. It did not say that PPI was in any way 
compulsory. Whereas, for example, directly below it said customers had to take buildings 
insurance. Indeed, it said PPI was something customers can have for peace of mind, and 
that Nationwide thought it was important. If anything, I think that reinforces that the policy 
was optional, just as Miss Ws mortgage application made it clear that it was optional.
At the time, Miss W made a handwritten list of costs on the back of the leaflet, and she 
included PPI. She now says that this shows she was told it was part of the mortgage. But I dont think it shows she was told that  she listed other costs that were also separate to the 
mortgage itself, and other optional insurance. If anything, I think it indicates that Miss W was 
planning to take PPI  which it seems she then did. And it looks like in order to get the 
policy, Miss W would need to have submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately 
to applying for the mortgage itself  though as Nationwide dont still have copies of any of 
Miss Ws documents from the time, they dont have a copy of that form either.
I do understand Miss Ws point of view. But Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Nationwides sales process from the time. And Ive not got any substantial evidence which 
shows that Nationwide differed from their normal sales process, or otherwise misled Miss W 
here. From what Ive seen, it looks like the PPI was displayed as optional, and that in order 
to get the policy, Miss W would need to have actively applied for it. So I think its most likely 
that after initially not deciding either way, Miss W chose to take out PPI, which is then 
reflected on her mortgage offer. Though I can understand if Miss W no longer recalls 
choosing PPI after so many years.
Its not clear whether Nationwide gave Miss W tailored advice about buying PPI, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Nationwide if they did give advice, so to be fair to Miss W, Ive 
assumed they did. That means Nationwide had to check the policy was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Miss W was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations.
Miss W doesnt seem to have had any alternative insurance or substantial work benefits. 
While she said she had savings left over after her deposit, this policy wouldve paid out for 
up to 24 months in any one claim. I think thats most likely to have lasted substantially longer 
than her savings if shed needed those savings to cover her salary. And the PPI meant 
Miss W could effectively protect her savings and use them for other things, instead of having 
to sacrifice one asset to save another. I also understand Miss Ws family may have been 
happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And 
this mortgage was Miss Ws sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Nationwide had recommended that she rely on other people to pay it. Its worth bearing in 
mind that this mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment, and if Miss W had fallen 
behind on her payments she couldve lost her home. It looks like the PPI couldve really 
been useful for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Miss W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. But as I explained above, Miss W wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss W could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman