DRN-1550570
complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between August 2016 and 
January 2019. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
129/08/2016 30/11/2016 3 £200.00 £116.26
209/12/2016 31/03/2017 4 £360.00 £157.39
314/04/2017 31/10/2017 6 £400.00 £213.30
420/11/2017 29/06/2018 6 £400.00 £191.46
527/07/2018 29/09/2018 3 £200.00 £118.34
610/01/2019 31/01/2019 6 £420.00 £148.40
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint about loans 5 and 6 and felt these loans 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender disagreed, and so the complaint was passed to me.
findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. 
Our adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint and felt that loans 1 - 4 shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr H seems to have accepted this opinion so these loans havent been considered further in 
this decision. However, I have thought about these loans when looking at the overall picture 
of Mr Hs lending.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan 5 would most likely have shown 
that Mr H:
had outstanding loans with several other short-term lenders at the time; and
had taken out four consecutive loans with Mr Lender prior to requesting loan 5;
had deferred a payment on loan 4 with Mr Lender.
 
The above factors combined suggest that Mr H was having problems managing money and 
would be unlikely to be able to repay this loan, or any subsequent ones, sustainably. Mr 
Lender says it conducted an affordability assessment on Mr H and this showed that based 
on his income and expenditure, loan 5 was affordable for him - so it doesn't agree that Mr H 
wouldn't have been able to repay loan 5. However, as our adjudicator explained, by the time 
Mr H was applying for loan 5 I would've expected a responsible lender to have conducted a 
more thorough review of his circumstances and not just relied on his income and 
expenditure details. And had Mr Lender have conducted a full review, I think Mr Lender 
would've realised that Mr H was not managing his finances well and it wouldn't be safe to 
lend to him further. So, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loan 5.Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending history with Mr Lender, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out five loans in 17 months. Mr Lender has 
highlighted that there was a gap in lending between loans 5 and 6. I dont think this 
was significant enough to break the chain of lending and it's likley Mr H had lending 
with other providers at the time. So besides this gap, Mr H had been in debt to Mr 
Lender for almost the entire 17 months. So, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised 
it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
The amount Mr H borrowed varied across the six loans, but the amounts were not 
substantially decreasing over the time. So, by loan 6 Mr Lender ought to have known 
that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to 
meet an ongoing need.
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan 6 was 
taken out 17 months after Mr Hs first. And was for almost double the amount of loan 
1. So, Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr 
Lender over an extended period.
 
Ive thought about what Mr Lender has said and Ive also considered Mr Hs monthly 
income and expenditure at the point of taking out each loan. While it may appear on the 
outset that Mr H wouldve been able to afford the repayments at each stage of borrowing, 
the number of loans taken and the period it was taken suggests that Mr H had developed a 
reliance on this type of credit. And looking at Mr Hs lending pattern by loan 6, I think Mr 
Lender ought to have reasonably realised that further lending was unsustainable, and 
potentially harmful.
I think that Mr H lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing which was likely 
to have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 5 
and 6 and Mr Lender should put things right as set out below.
putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 5 from Mr Hs credit file;
all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman