DRN-2576758
The complaint
Miss K complains about how WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) dealt with her claim under her 
mobile phone insurance policy. My references to WDP include its agents.  
What happened
Miss K had mobile phone insurance, the insurer was WDP. Her phone airtime contract was 
with a separate business. On 25 August 2020 Miss K claimed on her policy for her damaged 
phone. WDP accepted the claim.
Miss K says the first replacement phone she received was faulty as she was unable to 
update the software on the phone and couldnt transfer data from her original handset. WDP 
referred her to the technical team who referred her to the phones manufacturer. The 
manufacturer told her that from the serial number the replacement phone wasnt 
manufactured for the UK so wasnt compatible with the software available for the UK.
Miss K told WDP about the software issue and it sent her another replacement phone 
around 4 September 2020. That phone also didnt update the latest software and the 
manufacturer told Miss K that phone also had non UK parts.
Miss K complained to WDP and wanted a brand new phone. WDP said it would provide 
another replacement phone free of charge but under the policy terms the phone wouldnt be 
brand new. 
Miss K returned the two replacement phones to WDP and refused a further replacement. 
She told WDP that due to her ill health it was very important for her to have a fully working 
phone so she felt forced to terminate her airtime contract with the separate business which 
incurred an early cancellation fee. She wanted WDP to refund the £80 excess she paid on 
her claim, pay the early cancellation fee and compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
WDP said the origin of the replacement phones shouldnt affect the way the phones worked 
once they had been refurbished. But in its final response letter WDP accepted that tests 
confirmed the two replacement phones had technical faults that prevented them from 
updating to the latest software. WDP said it wasnt responsible for the early cancellation fee 
of Miss Ks airtime contract. It refunded the £80 excess to Miss K and offered £60 
compensation which she refused.
Miss K complained to us. She said she had a very difficult year, which she detailed, and not 
having a fully working phone and dealing with WDP had been very stressful for her.
Our investigator recommended WDP pay Miss K £150 compensation as well as the £80 
excess already refunded. She explained that WDP didnt have any involvement with the 
airtime contract provided by the separate business and wasnt responsible for early 
cancellation fees. She noted Miss K had complained to the Communications Ombudsman 
about the early cancellation fee.
WDP said £150 compensation was too high. In summary it had evidence from the phone 
manufacturer that a phone from, or with parts from, the relevant countries would be 
compatible with downloading software in the UK. WDP also said the first replacement phone 
was now with another of its customers who hadnt reported problems with downloading 
software.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I have to decide is whether WDPs offer of £60 compensation for Miss Ks distress 
and inconvenience due to the faulty phones in addition to the excess refund was fair and 
reasonable and I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
Our investigator has correctly explained that WDP isnt responsible for airtime contracts 
provided by the separate business or early cancellation fees. But I can consider whether 
WDP acted unreasonably which resulted in Miss Ks early cancellation of the airtime 
contract.
The policy says:
Any replacement device you receive may be refurbished to our as new standard 
using original equipment manufacturer parts.
So WDP acted within the policy terms and fairly when it told Miss K it wouldnt give her a 
brand new phone as a replacement. When Miss K told WDP about problems with the second 
replacement phone it fairly offered her another replacement which is said it could send to her 
immediately. So although Miss K was unhappy with WDPs response which led her to cancel 
the airtime contract Im satisfied that WDPs actions were reasonable. It didnt need to give 
Miss K a brand new phone and it doesnt need to pay anything towards the early 
cancellation fee. 
WDP refunded the £80 excess Miss K had paid for her claim and as she ended up with no 
replacement phone under the policy that was also fair.
As for the faulty two replacements phones, the information the phone manufacturer gave to 
WDP about the phones compatibility for software downloads is different to the information it 
gave to Miss K. As WDP says, its not clear why the information is different. But I dont think 
that matters as in WDPs final response letter to Miss K it accepted that its tests have 
confirmed that (the) replacement handsets were unable to update to the latest system 
software available due to technical faults. So I dont think WDP can now fairly start to 
dispute that there were faults with the phones.
When WDP calculated its £60 compensation offer it took onto account that Miss K had been 
given two faulty phones and the 12 day delay between the date the first replacement was 
delivered to Miss K to when she refused the further replacement phone as it wasnt brand 
new. But I dont think WDPs offer reflects the stress and inconvenience Miss K had in her 
particular circumstances.
Miss K told WDP that due to her ill health its extremely important for her to have a working 
phone. WDPs notes record that Miss K was clearly distressed in that phone call and Im 
satisfied that the inconvenience caused by the faulty phones was particularly upsetting and 
very stressful for her. Miss K also had the inconvenience of trying to set up each phone and  
WDP appears to have left her to research the software issues with the manufacturer, rather than its technical team investigate the problem. Miss K also had the added inconvenience of 
having to frequently contact WDP about the problems for each phone during what was 
already a very difficult time for her.
Putting things right
Taking Miss Ks particular circumstances into account I think the £150 compensation our 
investigator recommended reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience Miss K was 
caused by WDP.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require WDP Insurance Limited to pay Miss K £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience in addition to the £80 excess its already refunded to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman