DRN-3944681
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Revolut is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It is agreed that Mr C authorised the 
payments he is disputing  so the starting position is that he, rather than Revolut, is liable for 
them.
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before 
processing a payment. Such as when the payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the account. 
Ive considered whether Revolut should have intervened here. Im conscious that, overall, 
Mr C lost a large amount to the scam. But looking at the individual scam payments, in 
amongst his account activity, Im not persuaded Revolut ought to have realised he was at 
risk from fraud.
The payments were all made to the same, legitimate cryptocurrency merchant; Mr C had to 
purchase cryptocurrency to load to the scam trading platform. So over time, this merchant 
became a regular payee. The payments were also spread out, with gaps of days or weeks in 
between. There was only one occasion when more than one payment was sent in a day. But 
that only totalled £300, and Mr C had previously paid the merchant a few times before that, 
including for a higher amount.
As our investigator noted, the largest payment was just over £5,000. By that point, Mr C had 
paid the merchant six times prior over a period of around six weeks. Including payments of 
£1,000 and £3,000. Overall, I dont think this was such a significant escalation that Revolut 
had cause for concern. In many ways, the payments were in line with the previous account 
activity. 
Nor do I think the £1,000 or £3,000 payments were enough to trigger a fraud intervention. 
Again, these were made of a sequence of spread-out payments to the same merchant  so 
didnt appear uncharacteristic. And I wouldnt expect Revolut to intervene just because a 
payment went to a cryptocurrency merchant, as Mr Cs representative seems to be 
suggesting. The merchant wasnt the scammer, and the fraud loss didnt occur until the 
funds were transferred on. Additionally the first payment was for £100, which didnt appear 
particularly unusual in amongst Mr Cs general spending. 
Mr Cs representative says Revolut failed to identify Mr Cs vulnerabilities as English isnt his 
first language. But as above, Ive found it didnt have cause to contact him about the 
payments. And I can also see he was generally able to communicate with Revolut via online 
chat. So this doesnt have a bearing on my opinion that Revolut isnt at fault for not 
identifying the scam at the time of the payments. 
As the payments were made by card, they do fall under the within the chargeback scheme  
which can offer some protection for payment disputes. But the scheme would only consider 
a dispute about the merchant paid directly. Mr Cs dispute is not about the legitimate 
cryptocurrency merchant he paid, but the scammers he transferred the funds on to. So I 
dont think Revolut could have helped Mr C recover his loss either.
I appreciate Mr C has lost a lot of money to a cruel and sophisticated scam. But my role is to 
consider Revoluts part in this. And Im not persuaded Mr Cs loss was the result of an error 
by Revolut. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman