DRN-2042699
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled telephone calls in respect of his 
savings account. 
What happened
Mr S opened an account with Santander in June 2019. In January 2020 he called Santander 
to discuss his account, but was unable to as, the bank said, he hadnt passed security. He 
was unhappy since he had been able to contact the bank a few days earlier  when, he said, 
hed been asked the same questions. 
When he complained about this, Mr S was unhappy that the adviser he spoke to wasnt 
prepared to discuss the banks security processes. He says too that he was promised a call 
back but that it wasnt made. Hes unhappy too that Santander called him outside the times 
when hed said he was able to stalk; instead, it called him while he was at work. 
Santander acknowledged that it had told Mr S it would call him back during the evening of 24 
January, but it should have said it would call him later that evening or the following day. It 
paid him £20 in recognition of that. It said however that Mr S hadnt answered security 
questions correctly, that it wasnt appropriate to discuss its security processes with Mr S and 
that it hadnt guaranteed that it would only contact him at certain times of the day. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the banks response and referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. He considered however that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong and didnt therefore recommend that it do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
This complaint was triggered by a telephone call on 21 January when Mr S was asked when 
he opened the account and with how much. He said hed opened it in August 2019 with a 
deposit of £1. In fact, it was opened in June 2019 and the first credit to the account was an 
adjustment made in July 2019 when Santander paid Mr S £100 in compensation. In fact, the 
only credits to the account have been similar payments made by Santander, so I can see 
why the bank was concerned that he was unable to answer that question accurately. 
Ive approached this case on the assumption that Mr Ss call of 21 January was made in 
connection with a genuine query or instruction on his account. Santander was however 
entitled (obliged, even) to ask security questions to verify that it was dealing with its own 
customer. Mr S wasnt able to answer those questions correctly, and in my view Santander 
was under no obligation to discuss things further. 
Nor, I think was the bank obliged only to contact Mr S when he asked it to. I can see that its 
noted when he prefers to be called, but it didnt guarantee to restrict its contact to those 
times. As Ive noted above, Santander did acknowledge that it gave Mr S incorrect 
information about calling him back, but I think the £20 it paid him in recognition of that is fair 
in the circumstances.         
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman